PART I   

  Item 1.    Business.    

 General  

 The financial statements presented in this report represent the consolidation of Waste Management, Inc., a Delaware corporation, our wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities for which we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary. Waste Management, Inc. is a holding company and all operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. When the terms “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” are used in this document, those terms refer to Waste Management, Inc., its consolidated subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities. When we use the term “WMI,” we are referring only to the parent holding company.  

 WMI was incorporated in Oklahoma in 1987 under the name “USA Waste Services, Inc.” and was reincorporated as a Delaware company in 1995. In a 1998 merger, the Illinois-based waste services company formerly known as Waste Management, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of WMI and changed its name to Waste Management Holdings, Inc. At the same time, our parent holding company changed its name from USA Waste Services to Waste Management, Inc. Like WMI, WM Holdings is a holding company and all operations are conducted by subsidiaries. For detail on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of WMI, WM Holdings and their subsidiaries, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Our principal executive offices are located at 1001 Fannin Street, Suite 4000, Houston, Texas 77002. Our telephone number at that address is (713) 512-6200. Our website address is http://www.wm.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K are all available, free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after we file the reports with the SEC. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “WMI.”  

 We are the leading provider of integrated waste services in North America. Using our vast network of assets and employees, we provide a comprehensive range of waste management services. Through our subsidiaries we provide collection, transfer, recycling, disposal and waste-to-energy services. In providing these services, we actively pursue projects and initiatives that we believe make a positive difference for our environment, including recovering and processing the methane gas produced naturally by landfills into a renewable energy source. Our customers include commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers, other waste management companies, electric utilities and governmental entities. During 2007, none of our customers accounted for more than 1% of our operating revenue. We employed approximately 47,400 people as of December 31, 2007.  

 Strategy  

 Our Company’s goals are targeted at serving five key stakeholders: our customers, our employees, the environment, the communities in which we work, and our shareholders. Our goals are:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our strategy, which we believe will enable us to meet these goals, remains the same as last year: improve our organization and maximize returns to shareholders by focusing on operational excellence, pricing excellence and profitably growing our business. We continue our efforts toward revenue growth through pricing and are continuously working to lower operating and selling, general and administrative costs through process standardization and productivity improvements. Additionally, we have been improving our portfolio of businesses through our “fix or seek exit” initiative. All of these measures help us to generate strong and consistent cash flows from operations that can be used to maximize shareholder value.  

 As we move forward, we are building on our strategy to meet the needs of a changing environment and to make the most of the successes we have had so far. As the largest waste services provider in North America, we believe we are well positioned to meet the needs of the customers and communities we serve as they, too, Think Green®. We  

 1   
 believe that doing things that will help our customers achieve their environmental goals will help us achieve profitable growth. We regularly help customers reduce, reuse and recycle the waste they produce. We also focus on what is left, and in many cases convert the waste to a usable energy source. By focusing on providing new environmentally responsible and sustainable solutions to our customers’ waste problems, we believe we can create a competitive advantage across all of our lines of business.  

 Our focus on operational excellence has provided us a foundation on which to build. We believe we are well positioned to enhance that foundation by seeking profitable growth through targeted sales efforts and acquisitions. We are seeking to grow our current business in a variety of areas, including waste-based energy and single-stream recycling. We also are looking at new ways to grow. We believe we can make investments that are synergistic and that are going to take advantage of what we do best to give us revenue and earnings growth.  

 Operations  

 General  

 We manage and evaluate our principal operations through six operating Groups, of which four are organized by geographic area and two are organized by function. The geographic Groups include our Eastern, Midwest, Southern and Western Groups, and the two functional Groups are our Wheelabrator Group, which provides waste-to-energy services, and our WM Recycle America (“WMRA”) Group, which provides recycling services not managed by our geographic Groups. We also provide additional waste management services that are not managed through our six Groups. These services include in-plant services, where we work at our clients’ facilities to provide environmental management systems and provide opportunities for process improvements and associated cost reductions in their waste management. Other services not managed within our Groups include methane gas recovery and third-party sub-contracted and administrative services. These services are presented in this report as “Other.”  

 The table below shows the total revenues (in millions) contributed annually by each of our reportable segments in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007. More information about our results of operations by reportable segment is included in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in this report.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2   
 The services we provide include collection, landfill (solid and hazardous waste landfills), transfer, Wheelabrator (waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production plants), recycling and other services, as described below. The following table shows revenues (in millions) contributed by these services for each of the three years indicated:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Collection. Our commitment to customers begins with a vast waste collection network. Collection involves picking up and transporting waste from where it was generated to a transfer station or disposal site. We generally provide collection services under one of two types of arrangements:  

    •   For commercial and industrial collection services, typically we have a three-year service agreement. The fees under the agreements are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment we furnish, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility, labor costs, cost of disposal and general market factors. As part of the service, we provide steel containers to most customers to store their solid waste between pick-up dates. Containers vary in size and type according to the needs of our customers and the restrictions of their communities. Many are designed to be lifted mechanically and either emptied into a truck’s compaction hopper or directly into a disposal site. By using these containers, we can service most of our commercial and industrial customers with trucks operated by only one employee.   

    •   For most residential collection services, we have a contract with, or a franchise granted by, a municipality, homeowners’ association or some other regional authority that gives us the exclusive right to service all or a portion of the homes in an area. These contracts or franchises are typically for periods of one to five years. We also provide services under individual monthly subscriptions directly to households. The fees for residential collection are either paid by the municipality or authority from their tax revenues or service charges, or are paid directly by the residents receiving the service.    

 Landfill. Landfills are the main depositories for solid waste in North America and we have the largest network of landfills in North America. Solid waste landfills are built and operated on land with geological and hydrological properties that limit the possibility of water pollution, and are operated under prescribed procedures. A landfill must be maintained to meet federal, state or provincial, and local regulations. The operation and closure of a solid waste landfill includes excavation, construction of liners, continuous spreading and compacting of waste, covering of waste with earth or other inert material and constructing final capping of the landfill. These operations are carefully planned to maintain sanitary conditions, to maximize the use of the airspace and to prepare the site so it can ultimately be used for other purposes.  

 All solid waste management companies must have access to a disposal facility, such as a solid waste landfill. We believe it is usually preferable for our collection operations to use disposal facilities that we own or operate, a practice we refer to as internalization, rather than using third-party disposal facilities. Internalization generally allows us to realize higher consolidated margins and stronger operating cash flows. The fees charged at disposal facilities, which are referred to as tipping fees, are based on several factors, including competition and the type and weight or volume of solid waste deposited.  

 We also operate secure hazardous waste landfills in the United States. Under federal environmental laws, the federal government (or states with delegated authority) must issue permits for all hazardous waste landfills. All of our hazardous waste landfills have obtained the required permits, although some can accept only certain types of hazardous waste. These landfills must also comply with specialized operating standards. Only hazardous waste in a  

 3   
 stable, solid form, which meets regulatory requirements, can be deposited in our secure disposal cells. In some cases, hazardous waste can be treated before disposal. Generally, these treatments involve the separation or removal of solid materials from liquids and chemical treatments that transform waste into inert materials that are no longer hazardous. Our hazardous waste landfills are sited, constructed and operated in a manner designed to provide long-term containment of waste. We also operate a hazardous waste facility at which we isolate treated hazardous waste in liquid form by injection into deep wells that have been drilled in rock formations far below the base of fresh water to a point that is separated by other substantial geological confining layers.  

 We owned or operated 271 solid waste and six hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2007 and we owned or operated 277 solid waste and six hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2006. The landfills that we operate but do not own are generally operated under a lease agreement or an operating contract. The differences between the two arrangements usually relate to the owner of the landfill operating permit. Under lease agreements, the permit typically is in our name and we operate the landfill for its entire life, making payments to the lessor based either on a percentage of revenue or a rate per ton of waste received. We are usually responsible for the closure and post-closure obligations of the landfills we lease. For operating contracts, the property owner owns the permit and we operate the landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the landfill. The property owner is generally responsible for closure and post-closure obligations under our operating contracts.  

 Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2007 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 30 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are currently seeking expansion permits at 54 of our landfills for which we consider expansions to be likely. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 37 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume. Remaining permitted airspace and expansion airspace are defined in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report under “— Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions.” At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the expected remaining capacity in cubic yards and tonnage of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills is shown below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 4   
 The following table reflects landfill capacity and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site-specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; and anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate. We continually focus on improving the utilization of airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials; and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training.   

 The number of landfills we own or operate as of December 31, 2007, segregated by their estimated operating lives (in years), based on remaining permitted and expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The volume of waste that we received in 2007 was lower than in 2006, primarily as a result of pricing competition and a slow down in residential construction, which are discussed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report. The tons received at our landfills in 2007 and 2006 are shown below (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 5   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 When a landfill we own or operate (i) reaches its permitted waste capacity; (ii) is permanently capped; and (iii) receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, management of the site, including remediation activities, is generally transferred to our closed sites management group. In addition to the 277 active landfills we managed at December 31, 2007, we managed 187 closed landfills.  

 Transfer. At December 31, 2007, we owned or operated 341 transfer stations in North America. We deposit waste at these stations, as do other waste haulers. The solid waste is then consolidated and compacted to reduce the volume and increase the density of the waste and transported by transfer trucks or by rail to disposal sites.  

 Access to transfer stations is often critical to third-party haulers who do not operate their own disposal facilities in close proximity to their collection operations. Fees charged to third parties at transfer stations are usually based on the type and volume or weight of the waste transferred, the distance to the disposal site and general market factors.  

 The utilization of our transfer stations by our own collection operations improves internalization by allowing us to retain fees that we would otherwise pay to third parties for the disposal of the waste we collect. It allows us to manage costs associated with waste disposal because (i) transfer trucks, railcars or rail containers have larger capacities than collection trucks, allowing us to deliver more waste to the disposal facility in each trip; (ii) waste is accumulated and compacted at transfer stations that are strategically located to increase the efficiency of our collection operations; and (iii) we can retain the volume by managing the transfer of the waste to one of our own disposal sites.  

 The transfer stations that we operate but do not own are generally operated through lease agreements under which we lease property from third parties. There are some instances where transfer stations are operated under contract, generally for municipalities. In most cases we own the permits and will be responsible for the regulatory requirements relating to the operation, closure and post closure of the transfer station.  

 Wheelabrator. As of December 31, 2007, we owned or operated 16 waste-to-energy facilities and five independent power production plants, or IPPs, that are located in the Northeast and in Florida, California and Washington.  

 At our waste-to-energy facilities, solid waste is burned at high temperatures in specially designed boilers to produce heat that is converted into high-pressure steam. As of December 31, 2007, our waste-to-energy facilities were capable of processing up to 21,000 tons of solid waste each day, a decrease in capacity of approximately 3,000 tons per day from December 31, 2006. In 2007, our waste-to-energy facilities received and processed 7.1 million tons of solid waste, or approximately 19,500 tons per day. In 2006, our waste-to-energy facilities received and processed 7.8 million tons of solid waste, or approximately 21,300 tons per day. The decline in both the capacity and production of our waste-to-energy facilities during 2007 was due to the termination of an operating and maintenance agreement in May 2007.  

 Our IPPs convert various waste and conventional fuels into steam. The plants burn wood waste, anthracite coal waste (culm), tires, landfill gas and natural gas. These facilities are integral to the solid waste industry, disposing of urban wood, waste tires, railroad ties and utility poles. Our anthracite culm facility in Pennsylvania processes the waste materials left over from coal mining operations from over half a century ago. Ash remaining after burning the culm is used to reclaim the land damaged by decades of coal mining.  

 We sell the steam produced at our waste-to-energy facilities and IPPs to industrial and commercial users. Steam that is not sold is used to generate electricity for sale to electric utilities. Fees charged for steam and electricity at our waste-to-energy facilities and IPPs are generally subject to the terms and conditions of long-term contracts that include interim adjustments to the prices charged for changes in market conditions such as inflation, natural gas prices and other general market factors.  

 6   
 Recycling. Our WMRA Group focuses on improving the sustainability and future growth of recycling programs within communities and industries. In addition to our WMRA Group, our four geographic operating Groups provide certain recycling services that are embedded within the Groups’ other operations and, therefore, are not included within the WMRA Group’s financial results.  

 Recycling involves the separation of reusable materials from the waste stream for processing and resale or other disposition. Our recycling operations include the following:  

 Collection and materials processing — Through our collection operations, we collect recyclable materials from residential, commercial and industrial customers and direct these materials to one of our material recovery facilities (“MRFs”) for processing. We operate 99 MRFs where paper, glass, metals and plastics are recovered for resale. We also operate six secondary processing facilities where materials received from MRFs can be further processed into raw products used in the manufacturing of consumer goods. Specifically, material processing services include data destruction, automated color sorting, and construction and demolition processing.  

 Plastics and rubber materials recycling — Using state-of-the-art sorting and processing technology, we process, inventory and sell plastic and rubber commodities making the recycling of such items more cost effective and convenient.  

 Electronics recycling services — We provide an innovative, customized approach to recycling discarded computers, communications equipment, and other electronic equipment. Services include the collection, sorting and disassembling of electronics in an effort to reuse or recycle all collected materials.  

 Commodities recycling — We market and resell recyclable commodities to customers world-wide. We manage the marketing of recyclable commodities for our own facilities and for third parties by maintaining comprehensive service centers that continuously analyze market prices, logistics, market demands and product quality.  

 During 2006, we also provided glass recycling services. However, we divested of our glass recycling facilities in 2006 as part of our continued focus on improving the profitability of our business.  

 Fees for recycling services are influenced by frequency of collection, type and volume or weight of the recyclable material, degree of processing required, the market value of the recovered material and other market factors.  

 Our WMRA Group purchases recyclable materials processed in our MRFs from various sources, including third parties and other operating subsidiaries of WMI. The cost per ton of material purchased is based on market prices and the cost to transport the finished goods to our customers. The price our WMRA Group pays for recyclable materials is often referred to as a “rebate” and is based upon the price we receive for sales of finished goods and local market conditions. As a result, higher commodity prices increase our revenues and increase the rebates we pay to our suppliers.  

 Other. We provide in-plant services, in which employees of our Upstream organization work full-time inside our customers’ facilities to provide full-service waste management solutions. Our vertically integrated waste management operations allow us to provide customers with full management of their waste, including identifying recycling opportunities, minimizing waste, and determining the most efficient means available for waste collection and disposal.  

 We also develop, operate and promote projects for the beneficial use of landfill gas through our Waste Management Renewable Energy Program. Landfill gas is produced naturally as waste decomposes in a landfill. The methane component of the landfill gas is a readily available, renewable energy source that can be gathered and used beneficially as an alternative to fossil fuel. The United States Environmental Protection Agency endorses landfill gas as a renewable energy resource, in the same category as wind, solar and geothermal resources. At December 31, 2007, landfill gas beneficial use projects were producing commercial quantities of methane gas at 108 of our solid waste landfills. At 80 of these landfills, the processed gas is delivered to electricity generators. The electricity is then sold to public utilities, municipal utilities or power cooperatives. At 21 landfills, the gas is delivered by pipeline to industrial customers as a direct substitute for fossil fuels in industrial processes. At seven landfills, the landfill gas is processed to pipeline-quality natural gas and then sold to natural gas suppliers.  

 7   
 In addition, we rent and service portable restroom facilities to municipalities and commercial customers under the name Port-O-Let®, and provide street and parking lot sweeping services. We also have begun providing portable self-storage and fluorescent lamp recycling services. From time to time, we are also contracted to construct waste facilities on behalf of third parties.  

 Competition  

 The solid waste industry is very competitive. Competition comes from a number of publicly held solid waste companies, private solid waste companies, large commercial and industrial companies handling their own waste collection or disposal operations and public and private waste-to-energy companies. We also have competition from municipalities and regional government authorities with respect to residential and commercial solid waste collection and solid waste landfills. The municipalities and regional governmental authorities are often able to offer lower direct charges to customers for the same service by subsidizing their costs through the use of tax revenues and tax-exempt financing. Generally, however, municipalities do not provide significant commercial and industrial collection or waste disposal.  

 We compete for disposal business on the basis of tipping fees, geographic location and quality of operations. Our ability to obtain disposal business may be limited in areas where other companies own or operate their own landfills, to which they will send their waste. We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and quality of services. Operating costs, disposal costs and collection fees vary widely throughout the geographic areas in which we operate. The prices that we charge are determined locally, and typically vary by the volume and weight, type of waste collected, treatment requirements, risk of handling or disposal, frequency of collections, distance to final disposal sites, the availability of airspace within the geographic region, labor costs and amount and type of equipment furnished to the customer. We face intense competition based on pricing and quality of service. Under certain customer service contracts, our ability to increase our prices or pass on cost increases to our customers may be limited. From time to time, competitors may reduce the price of their services and accept lower margins in an effort to expand or maintain market share or to successfully obtain competitively bid contracts.  

 Employees  

 At December 31, 2007, we had approximately 47,400 full-time employees, of which approximately 7,900 were employed in administrative and sales positions and the balance in operations. Approximately 11,700 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  

 Financial Assurance and Insurance Obligations  

 Financial Assurance  

 Municipal and governmental waste service contracts generally require contracting parties to demonstrate financial responsibility for their obligations under the contract. Financial assurance is also a requirement for obtaining or retaining disposal site or transfer station operating permits. Various forms of financial assurance are also required by regulatory agencies for estimated closure, post-closure and remedial obligations at many of our landfills. In addition, certain of our tax-exempt borrowings require us to hold funds in trust for the repayment of our interest and principal obligations.  

 8   
 We establish financial assurance using surety bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies, trust and escrow agreements and financial guarantees. The type of assurance used is based on several factors; most importantly the jurisdiction, contractual requirements, market factors and availability of credit capacity. The following table summarizes the various forms and dollar amounts (in millions) of financial assurance that we had outstanding as of December 31, 2007:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    We use surety bonds and insurance policies issued by a wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, National Guaranty Insurance Company of Vermont, the sole business of which is to issue financial assurance to WMI and our subsidiaries. National Guaranty Insurance Company is authorized to write up to approximately $1.4 billion in surety bonds or insurance policies for our closure and post-closure requirements, waste collection contracts and other business related obligations.  

  (b)    We hold a non-controlling financial interest in an entity that we use to obtain financial assurance. Our contractual agreement with this entity does not specifically limit the amounts of surety bonds or insurance that we may obtain, making our financial assurance under this agreement limited only by the guidelines and restrictions of surety and insurance regulations.  

  (c)    WMI has a $2.4 billion revolving credit facility that matures in August 2011. At December 31, 2007, $300 million of borrowings were outstanding under the facility and we had unused and available credit capacity of $663 million.  

  (d)    We have a $15 million letter of credit and term loan agreement, a $175 million letter of credit and term loan agreement and a $105 million letter of credit and term loan agreement, which expire in June 2008, 2010, and 2013, respectively. At December 31, 2007, $1 million was unused and available under the letter of credit and term loan agreements to support letters of credit.  

  (e)    We have a $350 million letter of credit facility that matures in December 2008. At December 31, 2007, the entire capacity under the facility was used to support outstanding letters of credit.  

  (f)    Our funded trust and escrow accounts have been established to support landfill closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, the repayment of debt obligations and our performance under various operating contracts. Balances maintained in these trust funds and escrow accounts will fluctuate based on (i) changes in statutory requirements; (ii) future deposits made to comply with contractual arrangements; (iii) the ongoing use of funds for qualifying activities; (iv) acquisitions or divestitures of landfills; and (v) changes in the fair value of the financial instruments held in the trust fund or escrow accounts.   

 9   
  (g)    WMI provides financial guarantees on behalf of its subsidiaries to municipalities, customers and regulatory authorities. They are provided primarily to support our performance of landfill closure and post-closure activities.   

 The assets held in our funded trust and escrow accounts may be drawn and used to meet the obligations for which the trusts and escrows were established. Other than these permitted draws on funds, virtually no claims have been made against our financial assurance instruments in the past, and considering our current financial position, management does not expect there to be claims against these instruments that will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. In an ongoing effort to mitigate the risks of future cost increases and reductions in available capacity, we are continually evaluating various options to access cost-effective sources of financial assurance.  

 Insurance  

 We carry a broad range of insurance coverages, including general liability, automobile liability, real and personal property, workers’ compensation, directors’ and officers’ liability, pollution legal liability and other coverages we believe are customary to the industry. Our exposure to loss for insurance claims is generally limited to the per incident deductible under the related insurance policy. Our general liability, workers’ compensation and auto insurance programs have per incident deductibles of $2.5 million, $1.5 million and $1 million, respectively. Effective January 1, 2008, we increased the per incident deductible for our workers’ compensation insurance program to $5 million. We do not expect the impact of any known casualty, property, environmental or other contingency to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our estimated insurance liabilities as of December 31, 2007 are summarized in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Regulation  

 Our business is subject to extensive and evolving federal, state or provincial and local environmental, health, safety and transportation laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are administered by the EPA and various other federal, state and local environmental, zoning, transportation, land use, health and safety agencies in the United States and various agencies in Canada. Many of these agencies regularly examine our operations to monitor compliance with these laws and regulations and have the power to enforce compliance, obtain injunctions or impose civil or criminal penalties in case of violations.  

 Because the major component of our business is the collection and disposal of solid waste in an environmentally sound manner, a significant amount of our capital expenditures is related, either directly or indirectly, to environmental protection measures, including compliance with federal, state or provincial and local provisions that regulate the discharge of materials into the environment. There are costs associated with siting, design, operations, monitoring, site maintenance, corrective actions, financial assurance, and facility closure and post-closure obligations. In connection with our acquisition, development or expansion of a disposal facility or transfer station, we must often spend considerable time, effort and money to obtain or maintain necessary required permits and approvals. There cannot be any assurances that we will be able to obtain or maintain necessary governmental approvals. Once obtained, operating permits are subject to modification, suspension or revocation by the issuing agency. Compliance with these and any future regulatory requirements could require us to make significant capital and operating expenditures. However, most of these expenditures are made in the normal course of business and do not place us at any competitive disadvantage.  

 The primary United States federal statutes affecting our business are summarized below:  

    •   The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, regulates handling, transporting and disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste and delegates authority to states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste. In 1991, the EPA issued its final regulations under Subtitle D of RCRA, which set forth minimum federal performance and design criteria for solid waste landfills. These regulations must be implemented by the states, although states can impose requirements that are more stringent than the Subtitle D standards. We incur costs in complying with these standards in the ordinary course of our operations.   

    •   The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, which is also known as Superfund, provides for federal authority to respond directly to releases or threatened    

 10   
 releases of hazardous substances into the environment that have created actual or potential environmental hazards. CERCLA’s primary means for addressing such releases is to impose strict liability for cleanup of disposal sites upon current and former site owners and operators, generators of the hazardous substances at the site and transporters who selected the disposal site and transported substances thereto. Liability under CERCLA is not dependent on the intentional disposal of hazardous substances; it can be based upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of lawful, unintentional and non-negligent action, of hazardous substances as the term is defined by CERCLA and other applicable statutes and regulations. Liability may include contribution for cleanup costs incurred by a defendant in a CERCLA civil action or by an entity that has previously resolved its liability to federal or state regulators in an administrative or judicially approved settlement. Liability could also include liability to a PRP that voluntarily expends site clean-up costs. Further, liability may include damage to publicly owned natural resources. We are subject to potential liability under CERCLA as an owner or operator of facilities at which hazardous substances have been disposed or as a generator or transporter of hazardous substances disposed of at other locations.  

    •   The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, known as the Clean Water Act, regulates the discharge of pollutants into streams, rivers, groundwater, or other surface waters from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites. If run-off from our operations may be discharged into surface waters, the Clean Water Act requires us to apply for and obtain discharge permits, conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. In 1990, the EPA issued additional standards for management of storm water runoff from landfills that require landfills to obtain storm water discharge permits. In addition, if a landfill or a transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by the treatment works. Also, before the development or expansion of a landfill can alter or affect “wetlands,” a permit may have to be obtained providing for mitigation or replacement wetlands. The Clean Water Act provides for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for violations of its provisions.   

    •   The Clean Air Act of 1970, as amended, provides for increased federal, state and local regulation of the emission of air pollutants. Certain of our operations are subject to the requirements of the Clean Air Act, including large municipal solid waste landfills and large municipal waste-to-energy facilities. Standards have also been imposed on manufacturers of transportation vehicles (including waste collection vehicles). In 1996 the EPA issued new source performance standards and emission guidelines controlling landfill gases from new and existing large landfills. The regulations impose limits on air emissions from large municipal solid waste landfills, subject most of our large municipal solid waste landfills to certain operating permitting requirements under Title V of the Clean Air Act, and, in many instances, require installation of landfill gas collection and control systems to control emissions or to treat and utilize landfill gas on or off-site. In general, controlling emissions involves drilling collection wells into a landfill and routing the gas to a suitable energy recovery system or combustion device. We are currently capturing and utilizing the renewable energy value of landfill gas at 108 of our solid waste landfills. In January 2003, the EPA issued additional regulations that required affected landfills to prepare, by January 2004, startup, shutdown and malfunction plans to ensure proper operation of gas collection, control and treatment systems.    

 The EPA has issued new source performance standards and emission guidelines for large and small municipal waste-to-energy facilities, which include stringent emission limits for various pollutants based on Maximum Achievable Control Technology standards. These sources are also subject to operating permit requirements under Title V of the Clean Air Act. The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to review and revise the MACT standards applicable to municipal waste-to-energy facilities every five years.  

    •   The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and various reporting and record keeping obligations as well as disclosure and procedural requirements. Various standards for notices of hazards, safety in excavation and demolition work and the handling of asbestos, may apply to our operations. The Department of Transportation and OSHA, along with other federal agencies, have jurisdiction over certain aspects of hazardous materials and hazardous waste, including safety, movement and disposal . Various state and local agencies with jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous    

 11   
      waste may seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law.    

 There are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. Sometimes states’ regulations are stricter than federal laws and regulations when not otherwise preempted by federal law. Additionally, our collection and landfill operations could be affected by legislative and regulatory measures requiring or encouraging waste reduction at the source and waste recycling.  

 Various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. While laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. Additionally, certain state and local governments have enacted “flow control” regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. In 1994, the United States Supreme Court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007 the Court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. In addition, from time to time, the United States Congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. The United States Congress’ adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control or the adoption of legislation affecting interstate transportation of waste at the state level could adversely affect our operations. Courts’ interpretation of flow control legislation or the Supreme Court decisions also could adversely affect our solid waste management services.  

 Many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted “fitness” laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant or permit holder’s compliance history. Some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. These laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant or permit holder’s fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  

 See Notes 3 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosures relating to our current assessments of the impact of regulations on our current and future operations.  

  Item 1A.    Risk Factors.