Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    

 This section includes a discussion of our operations for the three years ended December 31, 2007. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Overview  

 Our pricing program, cost control measures and fix-or-seek exit initiatives continued to provide earnings growth, margin expansion, and strong free cash flow in 2007. Despite volume losses resulting from pricing competition and an economic softening, particularly in the residential construction sector, our 2007 operating results were strong.  

 We improved our income from operations in 2007 by $225 million, or 11%, as compared with 2006. In addition, income from operations as a percentage of revenue increased by 1.7 percentage points in 2007 as compared with 2006. This earnings growth and margin expansion is a reflection of our continued focus on improving our cost structure and pricing each customer to provide profitable returns, as well as significant returns provided by our recycling operations in 2007, largely due to a very strong market for recycling commodities.  

 Our revenues in 2007 decreased by $53 million, or 0.4%, as compared with 2006, primarily as a result of volume declines and divestitures, offset largely by increased yield from base business and higher recycling commodity prices. The loss of revenue due to volume declines in 2007 has resulted primarily from pricing competition and a significant slowdown in residential construction across the United States.  

 In 2007, we decreased our operating expenses despite incurring $35 million in operating costs during the year for labor disputes in Oakland and Los Angeles, California. In 2007, operating expenses decreased by $185 million, or 2.2%, and as a percentage of revenue, declined by 1.2 percentage points as compared with 2006. Our selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $44 million, or 3.2%, as compared with 2006, primarily a result of higher costs associated with the implementation and execution of our strategic initiatives that we believe will improve operations and processes over the long-term.  

 23   
 Our free cash flow increased in 2007 due to lower capital spending and increased proceeds from divestitures, the effects of which were partially offset by lower net cash provided by operating activities. Our capital expenditures were less in 2007 than 2006 largely due to relatively high levels of fleet capital spending in 2006 to prepare for significant mandated changes in heavy-duty truck engines that began in January 2007. The increase in proceeds from divestitures was a result of our continued fix-or-seek exit initiative. We calculate free cash flow as shown in the table below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    We have included free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity, in our disclosures because we use this measure in the evaluation and management of our business and believe it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase our common stock and fund acquisitions and other investments. Free cash flow is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of “Net cash provided by operating activities,” which is the most comparable GAAP measure. However, by subtracting cash used for capital expenditures and adding the cash proceeds from divestitures and other asset sales, we believe free cash flow gives investors greater insight into our liquidity.   

 We expect that in 2008 we may continue to face challenges related to volume losses as a result of general economic conditions and pricing competition. However, we are redirecting some of the focus in our sales department from the right-pricing of existing customers, which has largely been completed, to seeking out new customers that will provide profitable growth to our business. Throughout 2007, we continued to focus on building a trusted brand that stands for quality, reliable service, safety and environmental protection. We plan to cultivate this reputation; focus on quality customer service; actively manage our capital requirements and scheduled debt repayments; and grow our business with targeted acquisitions and other investments that will improve our current operations’ performance and enhance and expand our services. We believe all of these measures will ensure our ability to return value to our shareholders.  

 Technology Update — For the last several years, we have been introducing systems and technologies to improve our business processes and profitability. We recently have successfully deployed our FastLane system, an enterprise-wide, automated point-of-sale system for management of scale house ticketing and our Compass system, a fleet maintenance system that automates many shop functions and tracks repairs. We also are proceeding with pilots of onboard computer systems for our fleet collection operations and modules for our pricing program. As part of our focus on technology, in October 2005, we entered into agreements with a major software vendor to license its waste and recycling revenue management application and have the vendor implement the licensed software throughout the Company on a fixed price basis. In January 2007, we began a pilot test of the licensed application in one of our smaller market areas, while the rest of our market areas continued to operate using our existing revenue management system. The results of the pilot demonstrated to us that the licensed application would not work. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we terminated the pilot and the pilot market area’s operations are being returned to our existing revenue management system. Although we have continued to press the vendor to provide a revenue management application that fulfills its obligations to the Company, our negotiations have not yet resulted in a satisfactory commitment from the vendor. In March 2008, in an effort to avoid litigation, we will mediate and attempt to resolve our disputes with the vendor. Therefore, we will not be able to deploy a new revenue management system in the foreseeable future and we will continue to run our current system, although it does not provide the benefits we were expecting to get from the licensed application. However, we may be able to make enhancements to our current system. Our plans to install a new revenue management system, to make enhancements to our current system and to address the issues with the software vendor may result in cost increases, each of which could negatively affect our future cash flow and earnings.  

 24   
 Basis of Presentation of Consolidated and Segment Financial Information  

 Accounting Changes — FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109) and FSP No. 48-1, Definition of Settlement in FASB Interpretation No. 48 — Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 and FSP No. 48-1. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns. In addition, FIN 48 provides guidance on the de-recognition, classification and disclosure of tax positions, as well as the accounting for related interest and penalties. FSP No. 48-1 provides guidance associated with the criteria that must be evaluated in determining if a tax position has been effectively settled and should be recognized as a tax benefit.  

 SFAS No. 123(R) — Share-Based Payment — On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, which requires compensation expense to be recognized for all share-based payments made to employees based on the fair value of the award at the date of grant. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective method, which results in (i) the recognition of compensation expense using the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) for all share-based awards granted or modified after December 31, 2005 and (ii) the recognition of compensation expense using the provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation for all unvested awards outstanding at the date of adoption.  

 Refer to Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the impact of the implementation of these new accounting pronouncements on our results of operations and financial position.  

 Reclassification of Segment Information — In the first quarter of 2007, we realigned our Eastern, Midwest and Western Group organizations to facilitate improved business execution. We moved certain market areas in the Eastern and Midwest Groups to the Midwest and Western Groups, respectively. In addition, in early 2007 we moved certain of our WMRA operations to our Western Group to more closely align their recycling operations with the related collection, transfer and disposal operations. We have reflected the impact of these realignments for all periods presented to provide financial information that consistently reflects our current approach to managing our operations.  

 Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions  

 In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, stockholders’ equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that deal with the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments and self-insurance reserves and recoveries, as described below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements.  

 Landfills — The cost estimates for final capping, closure and post-closure activities at landfills for which we have responsibility are estimated based on our interpretations of current requirements and proposed or anticipated regulatory changes. We also estimate additional costs, pursuant to the requirements of SFAS No. 143, based on the amount a third party would charge us to perform such activities even when we expect to perform these activities internally. We estimate the airspace to be consumed related to each final capping event and the timing of each final capping event and of closure and post-closure activities. Because landfill final capping, closure and post-closure obligations are measured at estimated fair value using present value techniques, changes in the estimated timing of future landfill final capping and closure and post-closure activities would have an effect on these liabilities, related assets and results of operations.  

 Landfill Costs — We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for landfill  

 25   
 footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs.  

 Final Capping Costs — We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate final landfill capping costs to specific capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

 Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post-closure maintenance and monitoring. The estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also consider when the costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post-closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

 Remaining Permitted Airspace — Our engineers, in consultation with third-party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is then used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography.  

 Expansion Airspace — We include currently unpermitted airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria:  

    •   Personnel are actively working to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals for an expansion of an existing landfill;   

    •   It is likely that the approvals will be received within the normal application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill is located;   

    •   We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;   

    •   There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could impair the success of such expansion;   

    •   Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and   

    •   Airspace and related costs, including additional closure and post-closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design.    

 For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if these criteria are no longer met, based on the facts and circumstances of a  

 26   
 specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill-specific review process that includes approval of the Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 54 landfill sites with expansions at December 31, 2007, 18 landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Eight of these landfills required approval by the Chief Financial Officer because of a lack of community or political support that could impede the expansion process. The remaining ten landfills required approval primarily due to the permit application processes not meeting the one- or five-year requirements, generally as a result of state-specific permitting procedures.  

 Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined, an airspace utilization factor, or AUF, is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and then adjusted to account for settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site-specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, and anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi-level review by our engineering group and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements.  

 When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of available airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement cost related to final capping, and closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill.  

 After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed through landfill amortization. We look at factors such as the waste stream, geography and rate of compaction, among others, to determine the number of tons necessary to fill the remaining permitted and expansion airspace relating to these costs and activities. We then divide costs by the corresponding number of tons, giving us the rate per ton to expense for each activity as waste is received and deposited at the landfill. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change.  

 It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post-closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts, could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates, higher final capping, closure or post-closure rates, or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if our belief that we will receive an expansion permit changes adversely and it is determined that the expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of the landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment. If it is determined that the likelihood of receiving an expansion permit has become remote, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately.  

 Environmental Remediation Liabilities — We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by our operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party, or PRP, investigations, settlements, certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on several estimates and assumptions.  

 We estimate costs required to remediate sites where it is probable that a liability has been incurred based on site-specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with  

 27   
 respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the cost for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third-party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:  

    •   Management’s judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties’ sites;   

    •   Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation;   

    •   The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and   

    •   The typical allocation of costs among PRPs unless the actual allocation has been determined.    

 Asset Impairments — Our long-lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. We review the carrying value of our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. In order to assess whether a potential impairment exists, the assets’ carrying values are compared with their undiscounted expected future cash flows. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment about factors such as general economic conditions and projected growth rates, and our estimates often vary from cash flows eventually realized. Impairments are measured by comparing the fair value of the asset to its carrying value. Fair value is determined by either an internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or an actual third-party valuation. If the fair value of an asset is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs.  

 There are other considerations for impairments of landfills and goodwill, as described below.  

 Landfills — Certain impairment indicators require significant judgment and understanding of the waste industry when applied to landfill development or expansion projects. For example, a regulator may initially deny a landfill expansion permit application though the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace. Therefore, certain events could occur in the ordinary course of business and not necessarily be considered indicators of impairment of our landfill assets due to the unique nature of the waste industry.  

 Goodwill — At least annually, we assess whether goodwill is impaired. We assess whether an impairment exists by comparing the carrying value of each Group’s goodwill to its implied fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of each Group’s identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of the Group as a whole. We rely on discounted cash flow analysis, which requires significant judgments and estimates about the future operations of each Group, to develop our estimates of fair value. Additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying value of goodwill has been impaired.  

 Self-insurance reserves and recoveries — We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation insurance programs. Our liabilities associated with the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, generally is estimated with the assistance of external actuaries and by factoring in pending claims and historical trends and data. Our estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly different than our ultimate obligations if variables such as the frequency or severity of future incidents are significantly different than what we assume. Estimated insurance recoveries related to recorded liabilities are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable.  

 28   
 Results of Operations  

 Operating Revenues  

 Our operating revenues in 2007 were $13.3 billion, compared with $13.4 billion in 2006 and $13.1 billion in 2005. We manage and evaluate our operations primarily through our Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western, Wheelabrator and WMRA Groups. These six operating Groups are our reportable segments. Shown below (in millions) is the contribution to revenues during each year provided by our six operating Groups and our Other waste services:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our operating revenues generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, Wheelabrator and recycling services. Revenues from our disposal operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the weight, volume and type of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Our Wheelabrator revenues are based on the type and volume of waste received at our waste-to-energy facilities and IPPs and fees charged for the sale of energy and steam. Recycling revenue, which is generated by our WMRA Group as well as recycling operations embedded in the operations of our four geographic operating Groups, generally consists of the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties and tipping fees. Our “other” revenues include our in-plant services, methane gas operations, Port-O-Let® services and street and parking lot sweeping services. Intercompany revenues between our operations have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The mix of operating revenues from our different services is reflected in the table below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 29   
 The following table provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues (dollars in millions) along with an explanation of the significant components of the current period changes:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Base Business — Yield on base business reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer, disposal and waste-to-energy operations, exclusive of volume changes. Revenue growth from base business yield includes not only price increases, but also (i) price decreases to retain customers; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business; and (iii) changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due principally to the types of services provided and the geographic locations where our services are provided.  

 In both 2006 and 2007, our pricing excellence initiative was the primary contributor to our base business yield growth. The increases in base business yield were driven by our collection operations, which experienced substantial growth in every geographic operating Group primarily as a result of our continued focus on pricing our services based on market-specific factors, including our costs. In 2006, increased collection revenues due to pricing were partially offset by revenue declines from lower collection volumes and in 2007, the increased collection revenues were more than offset by revenue declines from lower collection volumes. However, we continue to find that, in spite of collection volume declines, increased yield on base business and a focus on controlling variable costs provide notable margin improvements and earnings expansion in our collection line of business.  

 Throughout 2007, we experienced increases in revenue due to yield on base business from our pricing excellence initiatives at our transfer stations and the municipal solid waste, special waste and construction and demolition waste streams at our landfills. The increases in transfer station revenues in 2007 were the most significant in the Eastern and Western portions of the United States. At our landfills, municipal solid waste revenue growth from yield was the most significant in the South and East; special waste revenue growth from yield was the most significant in the West; and our construction and demolition revenue growth from yield was the most significant in the South.  

 Revenues from our environmental fee, which is included in base business yield, were $121 million, $76 million and $33 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

 Commodity — Recycling prices approached all time highs in 2007 and drove the substantial revenue growth from yield. Increases in the prices of the recycling commodities we process contributed $306 million of revenue growth in 2007. Average prices for old corrugated cardboard increased by 62% and average prices for old newsprint increased by 39% in 2007. Approximately 50% of the increase in revenue from yield on our recycling operations is associated with our relatively lower margin brokerage activities.  

 Our revenues in 2006 declined $48 million as compared with the prior year due to price decreases in recycling commodities. In 2006, average prices for old corrugated cardboard dropped by 8% and average prices for old newsprint were down by about 7%.  

 30   
 Fuel surcharges and mandated fees — Fuel surcharges increased revenues year-over-year by $29 million in 2007. This increase is due to our continued effort to pass on higher fuel costs to our customers through fuel surcharges. We experienced relatively flat market prices for fuel for the first nine months of the year. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we experienced a significantly higher increase in market prices for fuel, which contributed all of the revenue increase due to fuel surcharges in 2007.  

 Fuel surcharges increased revenues year-over-year by $117 million for 2006. The substantial 2006 increases in revenue provided by our fuel surcharge program can generally be attributed to (i) increases in market prices for fuel; (ii) an increase in the number of customers who participate in our fuel surcharge program; and (iii) the revision of our fuel surcharge program at the beginning of the third quarter of 2005 to incorporate the indirect fuel cost increases passed on to us by subcontracted haulers and vendors.  

 Increases in our operating expenses due to higher diesel fuel prices include our direct fuel costs for our operations, which are included in Operating Expenses — Fuel, as well as estimated indirect fuel costs, which are included primarily in Operating Expenses — Subcontractor Costs.  

 The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to the pass-through of fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal governmental agencies at our landfills and transfer stations. These mandated fees have not had a significant impact on the comparability of revenues for the periods included in the table above.  

 Volume — The declines in our revenues due to lower volumes when comparing 2007 and 2006 with the corresponding prior year periods have been driven by declines in our collection volumes and, to a lesser extent, lower transfer station and third-party disposal volumes.  

 Volume reductions in 2007 have significantly affected the revenues of each of our collection lines of business in each geographic operating Group. Our industrial collection operations have experienced the most significant revenue declines due to lower volumes. Reduced volumes continue to be significantly affected by our focus on improving margins through increased pricing. Volume declines in our industrial collection business have also been affected by the significant slowdown in residential construction across the United States. Our commercial and residential collection operations have experienced revenue declines due to lower volumes in each geographic group as well.  

 Declines in revenue due to lower third-party volumes in our transfer station operations have been the most notable in our Eastern Group and can generally be attributed to the effects of pricing. In 2007, we also experienced declines in third-party revenue at our landfills due to reduced disposal volumes. The most significant declines were in our construction and demolition waste, particularly in our Southern Group. The reduction in construction and demolition volumes was largely due to the significant slowdown in residential construction across the United States. The volume declines for our municipal solid waste disposal operations have been the most significant in our Midwest Group due primarily to our focus on pricing increases. Waste-to-energy revenue from disposal volumes also declined in 2007, largely due to the termination of an operating and maintenance agreement in May 2007. The revenue decline due to lower third-party volumes in our recycling business was primarily attributable to decreases in certain brokerage activities and the closure of a plastics processing facility.  

 The revenue declines in our collection businesses in 2006 were partially offset by increased disposal volumes in all of our geographic operating Groups through the first nine months of the year. Our special waste, municipal solid waste and construction and demolition waste streams were the primary drivers of this growth in revenues due to higher volumes. We believe that the strength of the economy throughout most of the year and favorable weather in many parts of the country were the primary drivers of the higher disposal volumes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we experienced a decline in disposal volumes as compared with the fourth quarter of 2005, which we believe was due to the lack of hurricane volumes in 2006, competition, impacts of our pricing initiatives and an economic softening that caused a significant decline in residential construction.  

 Divestitures — Divestitures of under-performing and non-strategic operations accounted for decreased revenues of $320 million in 2007 and $154 million in 2006. These divestitures were primarily comprised of collection operations and, to a lesser extent, transfer station and recycling operations.  

 31   
 Operating Expenses  

 Our operating expenses include (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs included below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are driven by transportation costs such as fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily the rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include landfill remediation costs, leachate and methane collection and treatment, other landfill site costs and interest accretion on asset retirement obligations; (ix) risk management costs, which include workers’ compensation and insurance and claim costs and (x) other operating costs, which include, among other costs, equipment and facility rent and property taxes.  

 The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The decreases in operating expenses for both 2007 and 2006 as compared with the prior year periods can be attributed primarily to (i) our efforts to maximize margin expansion by focusing on managing our fixed costs and reducing our variable costs; (ii) the divestiture of under-performing and low margin businesses; and (iii) volume declines due to our pricing program and the slowdown in residential construction. In 2007, our cost containment efforts had the most significant impact on our risk management and maintenance and repair costs, while the impact of divestitures and volume declines provided significant reductions in transfer, disposal and subcontractor costs. The operating expense declines during 2007 were partially offset by increased “Cost of goods sold” due to significantly higher commodity prices and “Other” operating expenses incurred for labor disputes in Oakland and Los Angeles, California. These expenses are discussed below.  

 In addition to lowering overall costs the last two years, our operating expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased by 1.2 percentage points for 2007, from 64.3% in 2006 to 63.1% in 2007, building on the improvement of 1.7 percentage points during 2006. The improvement in operating expenses as a percentage of revenues reflects our continued focus on identifying operational efficiencies that translate into cost savings, revenue growth on base business yield, shedding low margin volumes and divesting operations that are not improving.  

 As discussed above, the changes in our “Operating” expenses when comparing 2007, 2006 and 2005 can largely be attributed to our focus on cost control, volume declines and divestitures. Overall, these favorable items have been slightly offset by the unfavorable effect of changes in Canadian currency exchange rates. However, there  

 32   
 are several additional items that affect the comparability of our operating expenses by category for the periods presented. These additional items are summarized, by category, below:  

 Labor and related benefits — In each year, wage increases due to annual merit adjustments have partially offset cost reductions due to headcount reductions related to operating efficiencies, divestitures and volume declines. During 2006, bonus expense was higher than either 2007 or 2005 due to the out-performance of 2006 incentive plan measures. The Company’s performance in both 2007 and 2005 was more in line with established incentive plan targets.  

 Transfer and disposal costs — In addition to the impacts of divestitures and volume declines, the costs incurred by our collection operations to dispose of waste at third-party transfer stations or landfills have declined due to our focus on improving internalization.  

 Maintenance and repairs — Throughout 2006 and 2007, cost savings were generated from (i) various fleet initiatives targeted at improving our maintenance practices while reducing maintenance, parts and supplies costs; and (ii) changes in the scope of maintenance projects at our waste-to-energy facilities. In 2006, year-over-year reductions due to divestitures, volume declines and the items previously noted were outweighed by increased labor costs.  

 Subcontractor costs — During the fourth quarter of 2007 and throughout 2006, we experienced increases in subcontractor costs due to higher diesel fuel prices, which drive the fuel surcharges we pay to third-party subcontractors. These cost increases were offset in part by the revenue generated from our fuel surcharge program, which is reflected as fuel yield increases within Operating Revenues. Additionally, in 2006, we incurred significant subcontractor costs during the first quarter of 2006 to assist in providing hurricane related services.  

 Cost of goods sold — Fluctuations in these costs are generally based on changes in our recycling revenues because they are primarily related to rebates we pay to our recycling suppliers. When comparing 2007 with 2006, substantially higher market prices for recyclable commodities resulted in significant revenue growth and higher cost of goods sold. When comparing 2006 with 2005, these costs were lower due to a decrease in market prices for recyclable commodities and reduced recycling volumes. Additionally, in 2006, the decrease in costs of goods sold was partially due to the completion of the construction of an integrated waste facility in Canada in early 2006.  

 Fuel — We experienced an estimated average increase of $0.18 per gallon for 2007 as compared with 2006 and of $0.31 per gallon for 2006 as compared with 2005. Fuel costs were relatively constant through the first nine months of 2007, but increased sharply during the fourth quarter. While our fuel surcharge is designed to respond to changes in the market price for fuel, the sharp increase late in 2007 negatively affected our ability to recover increased costs resulting from higher fuel prices within the year due to a lag in the timing of increased revenues following fuel cost increases. In each year, increased fuel costs have negatively affected our operating margin percentages. Revenues generated by our fuel surcharge program are reflected as fuel yield increases within Operating Revenues.  

 Disposal and franchise fees and taxes — In 2007, these cost declines were partially due to the resolution of a disposal tax matter in our Eastern Group, which resulted in the recognition of $18 million in favorable adjustments to operating costs during 2007. In 2006, we experienced increases in rates for mandated fees and taxes in certain markets. Certain of these cost increases are passed through to our customers, and have been reflected as fee yield increases within Operating Revenues.  

 Landfill operating costs — These costs increased during 2007 due to charges for revisions in our estimates associated with remediation obligations and changes in the risk-free discount rate that we use to estimate the present value of these obligations. During 2007 we recorded an $8 million charge to reduce the discount rate from 4.75% to 4.00% and during 2006 we recorded a $6 million decrease in expense to reflect an increase in the rate from 4.25% to 4.75%. For 2006, the cost increases as compared with 2005 generally related to higher site maintenance, leachate collection, monitoring and testing, and closure and post-closure expenses.  

 Risk management — Over the last two years, we have been increasingly successful in reducing these costs, which can be attributed to our continued focus on safety and reduced accident and injury rates. For 2007, the decrease in expense was largely associated with reduced actuarial projections of auto and general liability claims and, to a lesser extent, reduced workers’ compensation costs. During 2006, the decline in expenses as compared with 2005 was primarily due to reduced workers’ compensation costs.  

 33   
 Other operating expenses — In the third and fourth quarters of 2007, we incurred a significant increase in “Other” expenses due in large part to costs incurred for labor disputes with the Teamsters Local 70 in Oakland, California that was resolved in July 2007 and with Teamsters Local 396 in Los Angeles that was resolved in October 2007. These labor disputes negatively affected the “Income from operations” of our Western Group by $37 million, including $33 million of additional “Other” operating expenses, for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increased operating costs were primarily related to security and the deployment and lodging costs incurred for the Company’s replacement workers who were brought to California from across the organization. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our Eastern Group incurred $14 million for similar costs, which were primarily for a labor strike in the New York City area.  

 Also affecting the comparability of our “Other” operating expenses for 2007 as compared with 2006 were (i) $21 million of lease termination costs incurred during the first quarter of 2007 associated with the purchase of one of our independent power production plants that had previously been operated through a lease agreement; (ii) lower lease and rental expenses in 2007; and (iii) an increase in gains recognized on the sales of assets for 2007.  

 The lower costs in 2006 as compared with 2005 can be attributed to (i) Hurricane Katrina related support costs in 2005, particularly in Louisiana, where we built Camp Waste Management to house and feed employees who worked in the New Orleans area to help with the cleanup efforts; (ii) comparatively higher rental expense in 2005; and (iii) a decrease related to the deconsolidation of a variable interest entity in early 2006.  

 Selling, General and Administrative  

 Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity-based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees; and (iv) other general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility-related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our “other” selling, general and administrative expenses.  

 The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative costs for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our labor and related benefits, professional fees and other general and administrative costs for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by $24 million as a result of non-capitalizable costs associated with investments in our information technology and our people strategies. Other significant changes in our selling, general and administrative expenses are summarized below.  

 Labor and related benefits — In both 2007 and 2006, these costs increased year-over-year due to higher compensation costs driven by an increase in the size of our sales force; increased investments in our information technology and people strategies, as noted above; higher non-cash compensation expense associated with the equity-based compensation provided for by our long-term incentive plan; and annual merit raises. The higher labor costs for our pricing, people and other initiatives are necessary as we implement new ways to grow our business and strengthen our ongoing operations. Our bonus expenses were relatively higher in 2006 than either 2005 or 2007 due to the strength of our performance against incentive plan measures in that year. Fluctuations in our use of contract labor for corporate support functions also caused an increase in 2006 as compared with 2005. These cost increases in 2006 were partially offset by savings associated with our 2005 restructuring.  

 Professional Fees — In both 2007 and 2006, our consulting fees increased as a result of our strategic initiatives. In 2007, this increase was offset by (i) lower consulting costs associated with our pricing initiatives; and  

 34   
 (ii) reductions in legal fees and expenses, largely as a result of higher costs in 2006 related to indemnification obligations for former officers in legacy litigation brought by the SEC.  

 Other — Our “Selling, general and administrative” expenses for the years ended 2007 and 2006 included net charges of approximately $2 million and $20 million, respectively, to record our estimated obligations for unclaimed property. Refer to Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the nature of these charges.  

 Additionally, in both 2007 and 2006, our other costs increased due to higher sales and marketing costs and higher travel and entertainment costs due partially to the development of our revenue management system and our efforts to implement various initiatives.  

 Depreciation and Amortization  

 Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded due to capital leases, on a straight-line basis from three to 50 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction, asset retirement costs arising from closure and post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the estimated remaining permitted and expansion capacity of a site; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units-of-consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event; and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, either using a 150% declining balance approach or a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are from two to ten years depending on the type of asset.  

 Depreciation and amortization expense was $1,259 million, or 9.5% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2007; $1,334 million, or 10.0% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2006; and $1,361 million, or 10.4% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2005. The $75 million decrease when comparing 2007 with 2006 can be attributed, in part, to landfill volume declines. The $27 million decrease when comparing 2006 with 2005 was primarily due to the suspension of depreciation on assets held-for-sale and divestitures. Additonally, in both 2007 and 2006 there were decreases in depreciation due to components of enterprise-wide software becoming fully depreciated.  

 The comparability of our depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 has also been significantly affected by (i) a $21 million charge to landfill amortization recognized in 2005 to adjust the amortization periods of nine of our leased landfills and (ii) adjustments to landfill airspace and landfill asset retirement cost amortization recorded in each year for changes in estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, landfill amortization expense was reduced by $17 million, $1 million and $13 million, respectively, for the effects of these changes in estimates. In each year, the majority of the reduced expense resulting from the revised estimates was associated with final capping changes.  

 Restructuring  

 Management continuously reviews our organization to determine if we are operating under the most advantageous structure. Our 2007 and 2005 restructurings were the result of reviews that highlighted opportunities for efficiencies and cost savings. The most significant cost savings we have obtained through our restructurings have been attributable to the labor and related benefits component of our “Selling, general and administrative” expenses.  

 In the first quarter of 2007, we restructured certain operations and functions, resulting in the recognition of a charge of approximately $9 million. We incurred an additional $1 million of costs for this restructuring during the second quarter of 2007, increasing the costs incurred to date to $10 million. Approximately $7 million of our restructuring costs was incurred by our Corporate organization, $2 million was incurred by our Midwest Group and $1 million was incurred by our Western Group. These charges included approximately $8 million for employee severance and benefit costs and approximately $2 million related to operating lease agreements.  

 During the third quarter of 2005, we reorganized and simplified our organizational structure by eliminating certain support functions performed at the Group or Corporate office. We also eliminated the Canadian Group office, which reduced the number of our operating Groups from seven to six. This reorganization reduced costs at  

 35   
 the Group and Corporate offices and increased the accountability of our Market Areas. We recorded $28 million of pre-tax charges in 2005 for costs associated with the implementation of the new structure, principally for employee severance and benefit costs.  

 (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items  

 The following table summarizes the major components of “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (Income) expense from divestitures (including held-for-sale impairments) — The net gains from divestitures in all three years were a result of our fix-or-seek exit initiative, and 2005 also included a $39 million gain from the divestiture of a landfill in Canada as a result of a Divestiture Order by the Competition Bureau. Gains recognized from divestitures in 2006 were partially offset by the recognition of aggregate impairment charges of $18 million for operations held for sale as required by SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  

 Impairments of assets held-for-use — During 2007, we recognized $12 million in impairment charges due to impairments recognized for two landfills in our Southern Group. The impairments were necessary as a result of the re-evaluation of our business alternatives for one landfill and the expiration of a contract that we had expected would be renewed that had significantly contributed to the volumes for the second landfill.  

 The $24 million of impairment charges recognized during 2006 was primarily related to the impairment of a landfill in our Eastern Group as a result of a change in our expectations for future expansions and the impairment of under-performing operations in our WMRA Group.  

 During the second quarter of 2005, our Eastern Group recorded a $35 million charge for the impairment of the Pottstown Landfill in Pennsylvania. We determined that the impairment was necessary after the denial of a permit application for a vertical expansion at the landfill was upheld and we decided not to pursue an appeal of that decision. In addition, during 2005 we recorded $68 million in impairment charges associated with capitalized software, driven by a $59 million charge for revenue management system software that had previously been under development. The remaining impairment charges recognized in 2005 were largely related to the impairment of a landfill in our Eastern Group as a result of a change in our expectations for future expansions.  

 Other — In both 2006 and 2005 we recognized charges associated with the termination of legal matters related to issues that arose in 2000 and earlier. In 2006, we recognized a $26 million charge for the impact of an arbitration ruling against us related to the termination of a joint venture relationship in 2000. In 2005, we recognized a $16 million charge for the impact of a settlement reached with a group of stockholders that had opted not to participate in the settlement of the securities class action lawsuit against us related to 1998 and 1999 activity and a $27 million charge to settle our ongoing defense costs associated with possible indemnity obligations to former officers of WM Holdings related to the litigation brought against them by the SEC. The 2005 charges were partially offset by the recognition of a net benefit of $12 million, primarily for adjustments to receivables and estimated obligations for non-solid waste operations that had been sold in 1999 and 2000.  

 36   
 Income From Operations by Reportable Segment  

 The following table summarizes income from operations by reportable segment for the years ended December 31 and provides explanations of significant factors contributing to the identified variances (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  *    Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison.   

 Operating segments — Increased yield on base business as a result of our pricing strategies, our continued focus on controlling costs through operating efficiencies and higher-margin disposal volumes have improved the operating income of our geographic Groups each year during the three-year period ended December 31, 2007. Base business yield provided revenue growth for each line of business in 2007 and in 2006, and was driven primarily by our collection operations, where we experienced substantial revenue growth in every geographic operating Group for the third consecutive year. The improvements in operating income have been partially offset by the effects of declines in revenues due to lower volumes, which generally are the result of pricing competition, as well as the significant downturn in residential construction and the slowdown of the general economic environment in 2007. See additional discussion in the Operating Revenues section above.  

 Other significant items affecting the comparability of the operating segments’ results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are summarized below:  

 Eastern — The Group’s operating income for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes (i) net divestiture gains of $33 million; (ii) an $18 million decrease in disposal fees and taxes due to the favorable resolution of a disposal tax matter; and (iii) a reduction in landfill amortization expense as a result of changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. The Group’s operating income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was negatively affected by $26 million in charges associated with (i) the impairment of businesses being sold as part of our divestiture program and (ii) the impairment of a landfill. The year ended December 31, 2005 was negatively affected by the recognition of $44 million in impairment charges related primarily to the Pottstown landfill. Finally, the operating results of our Eastern Group for 2006 and 2005 were negatively affected by costs incurred in connection with labor strikes. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we incurred $14 million of costs related primarily to a strike in the New York City area. The Group incurred similar costs during the first quarter of 2005 for a labor strike in New Jersey, which decreased operating income for the year ended December 31, 2005 by approximately $9 million.  

 Midwest — Positively affecting operating results in 2007 and in 2005 were reductions in landfill amortization expense resulting from changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations.  

 Southern — During 2007, the Group recorded $12 million of impairment charges attributable to two of its landfills. These charges were offset by gains on divestitures of $11 million. During 2005, several large non-recurring type items were recognized, impacting comparisons to the other periods presented. These items include $13 million of pre-tax gains recognized on the divestiture of operations during 2005 and declines in earnings related to (i) hurricanes, largely due to the temporary suspension of operations in the areas affected by Hurricane Katrina; (ii) the effects of higher landfill amortization costs, generally due to reductions in landfill  

 37   
 amortization periods to align the lives of the landfills for amortization purposes with the terms of the underlying contractual agreements supporting their operations; and (iii) higher landfill amortization expense as a result of changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations.  

 Western — The Group’s 2007 operating results were negatively affected by $37 million as a result of various labor disputes, which are discussed in the Operating Expenses section above. Gains on divestitures of operations were $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared with $48 million for 2006 and $24 million for 2005.  

 Wheelabrator — The decline in operating income for the year ended December 31, 2007 was driven by a $21 million charge recorded in the first quarter of 2007 for the early termination of a lease agreement. The early termination was due to the Group’s purchase of an independent power production plant that it had previously operated through a lease agreement. Additionally, the termination of an operating and maintenance agreement in May 2007 resulted in a decline in revenue and operating income compared with the prior years.  

 WMRA — The Group’s 2007 operating income has benefited from substantial increases in market prices for commodities and $7 million of net gains on divestitures. In addition, the Group has experienced significant returns from operational improvements, including an increased focus on maintaining or reducing rebates made to suppliers. During 2006, the Group recognized $10 million of charges for a loss from a divestiture and an impairment of certain under-performing operations, which were slightly more than offset by savings associated with the Group’s cost control efforts. Income from operations in our WMRA Group during 2005 includes costs related to the deployment of new software.  

 Significant items affecting the comparability of the remaining components of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are summarized below:  

 Other — The changes in operating results for the periods presented are largely related to certain year-end adjustments recorded in consolidation related to our reportable segments that were not included in the measure of segment income from operations used to assess their performance for the periods disclosed. The unfavorable change in operating results in 2007 when compared with 2006 can also be attributed, in part, to the deconsolidation of a variable interest entity in April 2006. The favorable operating results in 2005 were also significantly affected by a $39 million pre-tax gain resulting from the divestiture of one of our landfills in Ontario, Canada. This impact is included in “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” within our Consolidated Statement of Operations. As this landfill had been divested at the time of our 2005 reorganization, historical financial information associated with its operations has not been allocated to our remaining reportable segments. Accordingly, these impacts have been included in Other.  

 Corporate and Other — In 2007 and 2006 we experienced significantly lower risk management costs largely due to our focus on safety and controlling costs. Other significant items occurring in 2007 include (i) a reduction in expenses from the discontinuation of depreciation for certain enterprise-wide software that is now fully depreciated; (ii) increased spending on the support and development of our information technology, people and pricing strategic initiatives; (iii) increased labor and related benefits costs; and (iv) restructuring charges.  

 When comparing 2006 operating results with 2005, in addition to lower risk management costs, we experienced lower employee health and welfare plan costs, also as a result of our focus on controlling costs. These cost savings were largely offset by: (i) a $20 million charge recorded to recognize unrecorded obligations associated with unclaimed property, which is discussed in the Selling, General and Administrative section above; (ii) increased incentive compensation expense; (iii) higher consulting fees and sales commissions primarily related to our pricing initiatives; (iv) an increase in our marketing costs due to our national advertising campaign; (v) the centralization of support functions that were provided by our Group offices prior to our 2005 reorganization; and (vi) a $26 million charge associated with an arbitration ruling against us related to a joint venture relationship that terminated in 2000.  

 Our 2005 operating results include impairment charges of $68 million associated with capitalized software costs and $31 million of net charges associated with various legal and divestiture matters. Also contributing to expenses during 2005 were costs at Corporate associated with our July 2005 restructuring charge and other organizational changes, which were partially offset by the associated savings at Corporate.  

 38   
 Other Components of Net Income  

 The following table summarizes the other major components of our income for the year ended December 31 for each respective period (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  *    Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison. Refer to the explanations of these items below for a discussion of the relationship between current year and prior year activity.   

 Interest Expense  

 The variances in interest expense during the reported periods are generally related to (i) decreases in our outstanding debt balances due to our repayment of borrowings throughout 2006 and 2007; (ii) the maturity of higher rate debt that we have effectively refinanced at lower interest rates; and (ii) fluctuations in market interest rates, which influence the impacts of our interest rate swaps and the interest rates of our variable rate debt.  

 We use interest rate derivative contracts to manage our exposure to changes in market interest rates. The combined impact of active and terminated interest rate swap agreements resulted in a net interest expense increase of $11 million for 2007 and $4 million for 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2005, interest rate swaps reduced net interest expense by $39 million. The significant decline in the benefit recognized as a result of our active interest rate swap agreements is attributable to the increase in short-term market interest rates. Our periodic interest obligations under our active interest rate swap agreements are based on a spread from the three-month LIBOR, which has varied significantly during the three-year period ended December 31, 2007. Specifically, the three-month LIBOR was as low as 2.75% in early 2005 and as high as 5.62% in the second half of 2007. Included in the $11 million net increase in interest expense realized in 2007 for terminated and active interest rate swap agreements is a $37 million reduction in interest expense related to the amortization of terminated swaps. Our terminated interest rate swaps are expected to reduce interest expense by $33 million in 2008, $19 million in 2009 and $12 million in 2010.  

 Interest Income  

 In 2007, decreases in our average cash and investment balances on a year-over-year basis resulted in a decline in interest income. In addition, interest income for 2006 included interest income of $14 million realized on tax refunds received from the IRS for the settlement of several federal audits. When comparing 2006 with 2005, the increase in interest income was due to the 2006 tax refund and an increase in our investments in variable rate demand notes and auction rate securities throughout the year.  

 Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities  

 Our “Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities” is primarily related to our equity interests in two coal-based synthetic fuel production facilities. Our equity in the losses of these facilities was $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, $41 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $112 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The equity losses generated by the facilities are offset by the tax benefit realized as a result of these investments as discussed below within Provision for (benefit from) income taxes.  

 Our equity in the losses of the facilities in both 2007 and 2006 have been significantly affected by our expectations for a partial phase-out of Section 45K credits on our contractual obligations associated with funding the facilities’ losses. The IRS has not yet published the phase-out percentage that must be applied to Section 45K tax credits generated in 2007. Accordingly, we have used market information for oil prices to estimate that we expect 69% of Section 45K tax credits generated in 2007 to be phased-out. The IRS establishment of the final phase-out of  

 39   
 Section 45K credits generated during 2007 could further impact the equity in losses of the facilities we recognized for 2007. Any subsequent adjustment to the amount of realizable Section 45K credits and related equity losses will be reflected in our 2008 Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 As of December 31, 2006, we had estimated that 36% of Section 45K tax credits generated during 2006 would be phased out. On April 4, 2007, the IRS established the final phase-out of Section 45K credits generated during 2006 at approximately 33%. We did not experience any phase-out of Section 45K tax credits in 2005.  

 In addition, the facilities temporarily suspended operations in May 2006, reducing our obligations associated with funding the facilities’ losses for the year ended December 31, 2006. During the second quarter of 2006, we also recognized a cumulative adjustment necessary to appropriately reflect our life-to-date obligations to fund the costs of operating the facilities and the value of our investment.  

 Minority Interest  

 On December 31, 2003, we consolidated two limited liability companies that own three waste-to-energy facilities operated by our Wheelabrator Group as a result of our implementation of FIN 46(R). Our minority interest expense for 2007, 2006 and 2005 is primarily related to the other members’ equity interest in the earnings of these entities. Additional information related to these investments is included in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes  

 We recorded a provision for income taxes of $540 million in 2007 and $325 million in 2006, and a benefit from income taxes of $90 million in 2005. These tax provisions resulted in an effective income tax rate of approximately 31.7%, 22.1% and (8.2)% for each of the three years, respectively. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is primarily affected by (i) increases in our income before taxes and (ii) differences in the impacts of tax audit settlements and non-conventional fuel tax credits, which are discussed in more detail below. Other items that have affected our reported income taxes during the reported periods include the following:  

    •   Canadian tax rate changes and the related revaluation of deferred tax balances resulted in a $30 million tax benefit during 2007 compared with a $20 million tax benefit in 2006 and $4 million of additional income tax expense in 2005.   

    •   We recorded reductions to income tax expense of $9 million in 2007, $20 million in 2006 and $16 million in 2005 due to state-related tax items. These impacts were generally due to either (i) the revaluation of net accumulated deferred tax liabilities as a result of a decrease in our effective state tax rate or (ii) reductions in our valuation allowance related to the expected utilization of state net operating loss and credit carryforwards.   

    •   In 2005, we recognized $34 million of tax expense for the repatriation of net accumulated earnings and capital from certain of our Canadian subsidiaries in accordance with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.    

 The impacts of tax audit settlements and non-conventional fuel tax credits, which are the items that had the most significant impacts on the comparability of our effective tax rate during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, are summarized below:  

    •   Tax audit settlements — When excluding the effect of interest income, the settlement of various federal and state tax audits resulted in a reduction in income tax expense of $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 (representing a 2.3 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate), $149 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 (representing a 10.1 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate) and $398 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 (representing a 36.4 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate).   

    •   Non-conventional fuel tax credits — Non-conventional fuel tax credits are derived from our landfills and our investments in the two coal-based, synthetic fuel production facilities discussed in the Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities section above. Pursuant to Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code, these tax credits are phased-out if the price of oil exceeds an annual average as determined by the IRS. Based on an    

 40   
      estimated phase-out of 69% of Section 45K tax credits generated during 2007, our income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007 include $50 million of non-conventional fuel tax credits. These tax credits resulted in a 2.9 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2006 included $71 million of non-conventional fuel tax credits, resulting in a 4.8 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate, and our income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2005 included $133 million of non-conventional fuel tax credits, resulting in a 12.2 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate.    

 Non-conventional fuel tax credits expired at the end of 2007 pursuant to Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, at current income levels, we expect that our 2008 effective tax rate will be approximately 40% without the benefit of the tax credits.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at waste-to-energy and materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) capping, closure and post-closure activities at our landfills; and (vi) repaying debt and discharging other obligations. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through our capital allocation program that provides for dividend payments, share repurchases and investments in acquisitions that we believe will be accretive and provide continued growth in our business.  

 The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 allowed U.S. companies to repatriate earnings from their foreign subsidiaries at a reduced tax rate during 2005. Our Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors approved a domestic reinvestment plan under which we repatriated $496 million of our accumulated foreign earnings and capital in 2005. The repatriation was funded with cash on hand and bank borrowings. For a discussion of the tax impact and bank borrowings see Notes 7 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Summary of Cash, Short-Term Investments, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations  

 The following is a summary of our cash, short-term investments available for use, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 41   
 Cash and cash equivalents — Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit, certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and investment grade commercial paper purchased with original maturities of three months or less.  

 Short-term investments available for use — Periodically, we have invested in auction rate securities and variable rate demand notes, which are debt instruments with long-term scheduled maturities and periodic interest rate reset dates. The interest rate reset mechanism for these instruments results in a periodic remarketing of the underlying securities through an auction process. Due to the liquidity provided by the interest rate reset mechanism and the short-term nature of our investment in these securities, they have been classified as current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Due to the decline in our overall cash balances near the end of 2007, we did not hold any of these investments as of December 31, 2007.  

 Restricted trust and escrow accounts — Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist primarily of funds held in trust for the construction of various facilities or repayment of our debt obligations, funds deposited for purposes of settling landfill closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations and insurance escrow deposits. These balances are primarily included within long-term “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion.  

 Debt — We use long-term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax-exempt bonds to borrow on a long-term basis, but also use other instruments and facilities when appropriate. The components of our long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2007 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007 can primarily be attributed to (i) the cash repayment of $1,200 million of outstanding borrowings at their scheduled maturities; (ii) $944 million of cash borrowings, generally to refinance amounts repaid in cash during the year; (iii) non-cash proceeds from tax-exempt borrowings, net of principal payments made directly from trust funds of $144 million; (iv) a $53 million increase in the carrying value of our debt due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps; and (v) the impacts of accounting for other non-cash changes in our balances due to foreign currency translation, interest and capital leases.  

 We have approximately $1.2 billion of scheduled debt maturities during the next twelve months. We have classified approximately $840 million of these borrowings as long-term as of December 31, 2007 based on our intent and ability to refinance these borrowings on a long-term basis.  

 Summary of Cash Flow Activity  

 The following is a summary of our cash flows for the year ended December 31 for each respective period (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities — The comparability of our operating cash flows for the periods presented is affected by our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. SFAS No. 123(R) requires reductions in income taxes payable attributable to excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions to be included in cash flows from financing activities, which are discussed below. Prior to adopting SFAS No. 123(R), our excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions were included within cash flows from operating activities as a change in “Accounts payable and accrued liabilities.” During 2005, these excess tax benefits improved our operating cash flows by approximately $17 million.  

 The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows for 2007 and 2006 are summarized below:  

    •   Earnings improvements — Our income from operations, net of depreciation and amortization, increased by $150 million, on a year-over-year basis, which positively affected our cash flows from operations in 2007.    

 42   
    •   Decreased income tax payments and refunds — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, was approximately $80 million lower on a year-over-year basis, largely due to excess tax payments in 2006, which reduced our estimated tax payment made in the third quarter of 2007. Cash tax refunds attributable to audit settlements decreased by approximately $40 million on a year-over-year basis.   

    •   Risk management assets and liabilities — During 2007, we have been able to reduce risk management liabilities by approximately $80 million, primarily as a result of reduced actuarial projections of claim losses for auto and general liability and worker’s compensation claims, which can be attributed to our continued focus on safety and reduced accident and injury rates. While this non-cash reserve reduction has had a positive impact on income from operations, it did not have a significant impact on our cash flow from operations.   

    •   Trade receivables — The change in our receivables balances, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures, negatively affected the comparison of our cash flows from operations by approximately $70 million. This decline is primarily attributable to increased trade receivables when comparing 2007 and 2006 as compared to decreased trade receivables when comparing 2006 to 2005.   

    •   Increased bonus payments — Our bonus payments for 2006, which were paid in the first quarter of 2007, were higher than bonus payments for 2005 paid in 2006 due to the relative strength of our financial performance against incentive plan measures in 2006 as compared with 2005. The comparative changes in our liabilities for bonuses negatively affected the comparison of our cash flow from operations by approximately $60 million.   

    •   Liabilities for unclaimed property — In 2007, we made significant cash payments for our obligations associated with unclaimed property, reducing our liabilities. In 2006, our liabilities for unclaimed property increased, primarily due to the charge to earnings required to fully record our obligations. The changes in our recorded obligations for unclaimed property negatively affected the comparison of our cash flow from operations by approximately $30 million.    

 The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows for 2006 and 2005 are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

    •   Capital expenditures — We used $1,211 million during 2007 for capital expenditures, compared with $1,329 million in 2006 and $1,180 million in 2005. Increased capital expenditures in 2006 were due to relatively high levels of fleet capital spending in order to adequately prepare for any potential operational difficulties that could be encountered as a result of significant mandated changes in heavy-duty truck engines beginning in January 2007.    

 43   
    •   Purchases and sales of short-term investments — Net sales of short-term investments provided $184 million of cash in 2007, compared with $122 million during 2006 and net purchases of $295 million during 2005. In both 2006 and 2007, we decreased our short-term investments to provide cash that we used to fund our common stock repurchases, dividend payments and debt repayments, which are discussed below.   

    •   Proceeds from divestitures — Proceeds from divestitures (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets were $278 million in 2007, $240 million in 2006 and $194 million in 2005. In 2006 and 2007, our proceeds from divestitures have been driven by the divestiture of under-performing and non-strategic operations. Approximately $89 million of our 2005 proceeds were related to the sale of one of our landfills in Ontario, Canada as required by a Divestiture Order from the Canadian Competition Tribunal.   

    •   Cash paid for acquisitions — Our spending on acquisitions increased from $32 million during 2006 to $90 million in 2007 due to an increased focus on accretive acquisitions and other investments that will contribute to improved future results of operations and enhance and expand our existing service offerings. Cash paid for acquisitions in 2005 was $142 million, and was related principally to tuck-in acquisitions of relatively small operations that could be easily integrated with our core operations.   

    •   Net receipts from restricted funds — Net funds received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts, which are largely generated from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds for our capital needs, contributed $120 million to our investing activities in 2007 compared with $253 million in 2006 and $395 million in 2005. The decrease is generally due to a decline in new tax-exempt borrowings.    

 Net Cash Used in Financing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

    •   Share repurchases and dividend payments — Our 2007, 2006 and 2005 share repurchases and dividend payments have been made in accordance with a three-year capital allocation program that was approved by our Board of Directors. This capital allocation program authorized up to $1.2 billion of combined share repurchases and dividend payments each year during 2005, 2006 and 2007. In June 2006, the Board of Directors authorized up to $350 million of additional share repurchases in 2006, increasing the total of capital authorized for share repurchases and dividends in 2006 to $1.55 billion. In March 2007, our Board of Directors approved up to $600 million of additional share repurchases for 2007, and in November 2007 approved up to $300 million of additional share repurchases. As a result, the maximum amount of capital to be allocated to our share repurchases and dividend payments in 2007 was $2.1 billion. Any remaining portion of the $300 million of additional share repurchases approved by the Board of Directors in November 2007 that was not utilized in 2007 may be utilized in future years.    

 In December 2007, our Board of Directors approved a new capital allocation program that includes the authorization for up to $1.4 billion in combined cash dividends and common stock repurchases in 2008. Approximately $184 million of the additional authorization of $300 million in November 2007 was not used in 2007. As a result, the maximum amount of capital to be allocated to our share repurchases and dividend payments in 2008 is $1,584 million. We currently intend to allocate up to $1.4 billion of capital to dividends and share repurchases in 2008.  

 We paid $1,421 million for share repurchases in 2007, as compared with $1,072 million in 2006 and $706 million in 2005. We repurchased approximately 40 million, 31 million and 25 million shares of our common stock in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We currently expect to continue repurchasing common stock under the capital allocation program discussed above.  

 We paid an aggregate of $495 million in cash dividends during 2007 compared with $476 million in 2006 and $449 million in 2005. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.20 in 2005, to $0.22 in 2006 and to $0.24 in 2007. The impact of the year-over-year increases in the per share dividend has been partially offset by a reduction in the number of our outstanding shares as a result of our share repurchase program. In December 2007, the Board of Directors announced that it expects future quarterly dividend payments will be $0.27 per share. All future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors, and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future prospects and other factors the Board may deem relevant.  

 44   
    •   Proceeds and tax benefits from the exercise of options and warrants —  The exercise of common stock options and warrants and the related excess tax benefits generated a total of $168 million of financing cash inflows during 2007, compared with $340 million in 2006 and $129 million in 2005. We believe the significant increase in stock option and warrant exercises in 2006 was due to the substantial increase in the market value of our common stock during 2006. The accelerated vesting of all outstanding stock options in December 2005 also resulted in increased cash proceeds from stock option exercises because the acceleration made additional options available for exercise. As discussed above, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006 resulted in the classification of tax savings provided by equity-based compensation as a financing cash inflow rather than an operating cash inflow beginning in the first quarter of 2006. This change in accounting increased cash flows from financing activities by $26 million in 2007 and $45 million in 2006.   

    •   Net debt repayments — Net debt repayments were $256 million in 2007, $500 million in 2006 and $11 million in 2005. The following summarizes our most significant cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year (in millions):    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

    •   Change in cash overdraft position — Changes in our cash overdraft position are reflected as “Other” financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The significant changes in our cash overdraft positions as of each year-end are generally attributable to the timing of cash deposits.    

 45   
 Summary of Contractual Obligations  

 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2007 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills.  

  (b)    Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2007 include $192 million of fixed rate tax-exempt bonds subject to repricing within the next twelve months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re-offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowing for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2007, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  (c)    Our recorded debt obligations include non-cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods. In addition, $47 million of our future debt payments and related interest obligations will be made with debt service funds held in trust and included as long-term “Other assets” within our December 31, 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

  (d)    Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

  (e)    In November 2007, we entered into a plan under SEC Rule 10b5-1 to effect market purchases of our common stock. The $99 million disclosed here represents the minimum amount of common stock that could be repurchased under the terms of the plan. These common stock repurchases were made in accordance with our Board of Directors approved capital allocation program which authorizes up to $1.4 billion in share repurchases and dividends in 2008. We repurchased $175 million of our common stock pursuant to the plan, which was completed on February 7, 2008.  

  (f)    Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For these contracts, we have estimated our future obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations.   

 46   
 We have contingencies that are not considered reasonably likely. As a result, the impact of these contingencies have not been included in the above table. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these contingencies.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 We are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our third-party guarantee arrangements are generally established to support our financial assurance needs and landfill operations. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2007 nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

 Seasonal Trends and Inflation  

 Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in the summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes experienced in 2004 and 2005, can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. However, for several reasons, including significant start-up costs, such revenue often generates comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. The operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities.  

 While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of fuel, have affected our operating margins in recent periods, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, management’s estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities.  

 New Accounting Pronouncements  

 SFAS No. 157 — Fair Value Measurements  

 In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2008. We do not currently expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 on January 1, 2008 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. However, we are continuing to assess the potential effects of SFAS No. 157 as additional guidance becomes available.  

 SFAS No. 159 — Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  

 In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities — Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115, which permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. SFAS No. 159 will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2008. The Company has elected not to measure eligible items at fair value upon initial adoption and does not believe the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.  

 SFAS No. 141(R) — Business Combinations  

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations, which establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer recognizes and measures in the financial statements the  

 47   
 identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. This statement also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination and determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009. We are currently evaluating the effect the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will have on our accounting and reporting for future acquisitions.  

 SFAS No. 160 — Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements-an amendment of ARB No. 51  

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements — an amendment of ARB No. 51, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 160 will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009. We are currently evaluating the effect the adoption of SFAS 160 will have on our consolidated financial statements.  

  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.