Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.    

 In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, Canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. From time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. Our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. As of December 31, 2007, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures although certain transactions did not qualify for hedge accounting. We are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. However, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit-worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance.  

 We have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. These analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. The effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by the sensitivity analyses. Fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements.  

 Interest Rate Exposure. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, we use interest rate swaps to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations, which directly impacts variability in interest costs. An instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions by approximately $445 million at December 31, 2007 and $460 million at December 31, 2006. This analysis does not reflect the effect that increasing interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the unfavorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest.  

 We are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have $418 million and $377 million of assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts primarily included within long-term “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These assets are generally restricted for future capital expenditures and closure, post-closure and environmental remediation activities at our disposal facilities and are, therefore, invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and U.S. government agency debt securities. Because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant.  

 Currency Rate Exposure. From time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany Canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. Our foreign  

 48   
 currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. In addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the Company.  

 Commodities Price Exposure. We market recycled products such as wastepaper, aluminum and glass from our material recovery facilities. We have entered into commodity swaps and options to mitigate the variability in cash flows from a portion of these sales. Under the swap agreements, we pay a floating index price and receive a fixed price for a fixed period of time. With regard to our option agreements, we have purchased price protection on certain wastepaper sales via synthetic floors (put options) and price protection on certain wastepaper purchases via synthetic ceilings (call options). Additionally, we have entered into collars (combination of a put and call option) with financial institutions in which we receive the market price for our wastepaper and aluminum sales within a specified floor and ceiling. We record changes in the fair value of commodity derivatives not designated as hedges to earnings, as required. The fair value position of our commodity derivatives is not material to our financial position at December 31, 2007 and 2006.  

 49   

  Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.