PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (“Interpublic,” “IPG,” “we,” “us” or “our”) was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann. The company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.  

About Us  

We are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. Through our 41,000 employees in all major world markets, our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, media planning and buying, public relations and specialized communications disciplines. Our agencies create customized marketing programs for many of the world’s largest advertisers. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serving these multinational clients, as well as our local clients in markets throughout the world, as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services and gain market share.  

The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency and its client to long-term, fully integrated campaigns created by a group of our companies working together on behalf of a client. With offices in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region or align work globally across world markets.  

The role of our holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet clients’ needs. Based in New York City, our holding company sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, establishes financial management and operational controls, oversees agency’s compliance, guides personnel policy, conducts investor relations and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide limited centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, marketing information retrieval and analysis, legal services, real estate expertise, travel services, recruitment assistance, employee benefits, internal audit and executive compensation management.  

To keep our company well-positioned in an evolving industry, we support our agencies’ talent and operational initiatives to expand high-growth capabilities and build offerings in key strategic world markets. When appropriate, we also develop relationships with companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies and the programs they are developing for clients. In addition, we look for opportunities within our company to modernize operations through mergers, strategic alliances and the development of internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration.  

Market Strategy  

We operate in a media landscape that has vastly changed over the past decade. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have invested in creative and strategic talent in fast-growth marketing channels and geographic regions as well as key strategic world markets and have realigned a number of our capabilities to meet market demand.  

We have taken several major strategic steps in recent years to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market.  

   •    Our McCann Worldgroup (“McCann”) unit continues to further its offering of delivering preeminent integrated marketing communications solutions around the world.  

   •    We combined accountable marketing and consumer advertising agencies in the unique global offering of Draftfcb, which is now operational throughout all significant world markets.  

   •    We created a more strategic Lowe & Partners (“Lowe”) by aligning Deutsch and Lowe in North America to create a powerful offering in this key market, and by launching DLKW Lowe in London with our acquisition of Delaney Lund Knox Warren in 2010, which provides a dynamic hub in Western Europe for the network.  

2  

Table of Contents 

   •    At our marketing services group, Constituency Management Group (“CMG”), we continue to strengthen our best-in-class public relations and events marketing specialists. In 2010 we built out significant social media practices across CMG agencies and expanded our operations in China.  

   •    We organized our media operations under a single management structure called Mediabrands, to reinvent how we plan, measure and buy media for clients. This media solution has shown significant traction in the marketplace and has delivered industry-leading performance and growth since its launch in 2008.  

The market for our digital media services continue to evolve rapidly. As such, strong, multi-channel talent is vital to our long-term success as a marketing partner to our clients. In order to grow with our clients, we have focused our investment in digital talent, professional training and technology throughout the organization in recent years. This reflects our belief that digital marketing should not be treated as a stand-alone function, but instead, should be integrated within all of our companies. Recruiting and developing digitally conversant talent at all our agencies and in all marketing disciplines is an area where we continue to invest.  

To meet these changing needs of the marketplace, we have at times also acquired or built specialty digital assets, such as Reprise Media (search engine marketing), HUGE (e-commerce solutions) and The Interpublic Emerging Media Lab. We have continued to invest in existing digital assets such as R/GA, a digital agency and industry leader in the development of award-winning interactive campaigns for global clients. These specialty assets have unique capabilities and service their own client rosters, while also serving as key digital partners to many of the agencies within IPG.  

We continue to evaluate strategic opportunities to invest and grow in fast-growth geographic regions. For example, in 2010 we acquired CuboCC, a new media and digital marketing services company in Brazil. In recent years, we have made additional investments in India and Brazil, further strengthening our leadership position in these high-growth, developing markets. We also hold a majority stake in the Middle East Communication Networks (“MCN”), which we believe is the region's premier marketing services management company. MCN is headquartered in Dubai with 60 offices across 14 countries. Our partner in Russia is an acknowledged advertising leader in that country. In China, where we operate with all of our global networks and across the full spectrum of marketing services, we continue to invest behind our companies.  

Our long-term financial goals include maintaining organic revenue growth at competitive levels while expanding our operating margin. Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while carefully managing our cost structure. We continually seek greater efficiency in the delivery of our services, focusing on more effective resource utilization, including the productivity of our employees, real estate and information technology. The improvements we have made in our financial reporting and business information systems during recent years provide us with more timely and actionable insights from our global operations, while our strong balance sheet and liquidity position provide us with a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility.  

During 2010, we have seen our clients renew their focus on investing in marketing to protect market share and enhance brand value. We feel our network of companies delivers a high level of integrated, modern marketing solutions, which clients are looking for today. In 2010, IPG agencies were recognized with many of the industry’s most coveted honors, across many advertising and marketing disciplines. Our agencies are invited to compete for most major new business opportunities and won a number of the year’s biggest and most competitive new business assignments.  

In summary, we believe that our strategy and execution position us to be fully competitive in key growth areas such as digital services and emerging markets, with the talent and creativity to thrive in a content-driven media world, and to meet our financial goals and deliver long-term shareholder value.  

Our Offering  

Interpublic is home to some of the world’s best-known and most innovative communications specialists. We have three global brands that provide integrated, large-scale advertising and marketing solutions for clients, McCann, Draftfcb and Lowe, as well as our premier domestic integrated agencies and global media networks. We also have a range of leading specialized communication assets.  

   •    McCann offers best-in-class communications tools and resources to many of the world’s top companies and most famous brands. We believe McCann is exceptionally qualified to meet client demands in all regions of the world  

3  

Table of Contents 

     and in all marketing disciplines through its operating units: McCann Erickson Advertising, with operations in over 100 countries; MRM Worldwide for relationship marketing and digital expertise; Momentum Worldwide for experiential marketing and promotions; and McCann Healthcare Worldwide for healthcare communications.  

   •    Draftfcb is a modern agency model for clients seeking creative and accountable marketing programs. The company has its roots in both consumer advertising and behavioral, data-driven direct marketing. We believe the agency is the first global, behavior-based, creative and accountable marketing communications organization operating as a financially and structurally integrated business unit.  

   •    Lowe is a premier creative agency that operates in the world’s largest advertising markets. Lowe is focused on delivering and sustaining high-value ideas for some of the world’s largest clients. The quality of the agency’s product is evident in its high global creative rankings and its standing in major markets.  

   •    Mediabrands delivers on the scale and breadth of our media capabilities, and also has a nimble, collaborative culture led by outstanding executives. The organization consistently delivers results in an increasingly complex and digital marketing landscape and has been recognized as Media Holding Company of the Year in 2009 and 2010 by MediaPost, a leading trade publication.  

   •    Our domestic independent agencies include some of the larger full-service agency brands, Campbell-Ewald, Campbell Mithun, Hill Holliday, The Martin Agency, Mullen and Gotham. The integrated marketing programs created by this group have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S., across all sectors and industries.  

   •    We have exceptional marketing specialists across a range of disciplines. These include Jack Morton (experiential marketing), Octagon (sports marketing), public relations specialists like Weber Shandwick and GolinHarris, FutureBrand (corporate branding), and best-in-class digital agencies, led by R/GA and HUGE. Our healthcare communications specialists reside within our three global brands, McCann, Draftfcb and Lowe.  

We list approximately 85 companies on our website’s “Company Finder” tool, with descriptions and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at http://www.interpublic.com.  

Financial Reporting Segments  

We have two reportable segments: Integrated Agency Network (“IAN”), which is comprised of McCann, Draftfcb, Lowe, Mediabrands and our domestic integrated agencies; and CMG, which is comprised of a number of our specialist marketing services offerings. We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

Principal Markets  

Our agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. Our geographic revenue breakdown is listed below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For further information regarding revenues and long-lived assets on a geographical basis for each of the last three years, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Sources of Revenue  

Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of advertising, marketing and communications programs in various media around the world. Our revenue is directly dependent upon our ability to win new clients and the  

4  

Table of Contents 

 advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated and accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days.  

Revenues for the creation, planning and placement of advertising are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided and are usually derived from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which is either retained in total or shared with the client depending on the nature of the services agreement.  

We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and entertainment marketing and corporate and brand identity services.  

In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients. Generally, we act as the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor. In some instances we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges.  

Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. This reflects the seasonal spending of our clients, incentives earned at year end on various contracts and project work completed that is typically recognized during the fourth quarter. Fee revenue recognized on a completed contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our contracts end at December 31.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our revenue recognition accounting policies.  

Clients  

Our large and diverse client base includes many of the leading companies and brands throughout the world. Our holding company structure allows us to work with clients within the same business sector through our different agencies, as well as maintain a diversified client base by sector. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 24% of revenue in 2010 and 2009. Our largest client accounted for approximately 5% and 4% of revenue for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Based on revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, our largest clients (in alphabetical order) were General Motors, Johnson & Johnson, Microsoft, Unilever and Verizon. We represent several different brands or divisions of each of these clients in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency systems. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget at any time.  

We operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry. Our operating companies compete against other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies to win new clients and maintain existing client relationships.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Personnel  

As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 41,000 people, of whom approximately 18,000 were employed in the U.S. Because of the service character of the advertising and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success. We conduct extensive employee training and development throughout our agencies, and benchmark our compensation programs against those of our industry for their competitiveness and effectiveness in recruitment and retention. There is keen competition for qualified employees.  

Available Information  

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge in the Investors section of our website at http://www.interpublic.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee are available free of charge in the Corporate Governance subsection of the Corporate Citizenship section of our website at http://www.interpublic.com, or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Secretary. Information on our website is not part of this report.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors