Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

 (Amounts in millions)  

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks related to interest rates, foreign currency rates and certain balance sheet items. From time to time, we use derivative instruments, pursuant to established guidelines and policies, to manage some portion of these risks. Derivative instruments utilized in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for trading or speculative purposes.  

Interest Rates  

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the fair market value of our debt obligations, because the majority of our debt (approximately 93% and 84% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively) bears interest at fixed rates. We do have debt with variable interest rates, but a 10% increase or decrease in interest rates would not be material to our interest expense or cash flows. The fair market value of our debt is sensitive to changes in interest rates and the impact of a 10% change in interest rates is summarized below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We have used interest rate swaps for risk management purposes to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates and to maintain a mix of fixed and floating rate debt. We terminated our interest rate swaps related to our 6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2014 (the “2014 Notes”) in February 2010 and do not have any outstanding as of December 31, 2010.  

We had $2,689.4 of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2010 that we generally invest in conservative, short-term investment-grade securities. The interest income generated from these investments is subject to both domestic and foreign interest rate movements. During 2010 and 2009, we had interest income of $28.7 and $35.0, respectively. Based on our 2010 results, a 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would affect our interest income by approximately $27.0, assuming that all cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were affected in the same manner and balances remain constant from year-end 2010 levels.  

Foreign Currency Rates  

We are subject to translation and transaction risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Since we report revenues and expenses in U.S. Dollars, changes in exchange rates may either positively or negatively affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in U.S. Dollars) from foreign operations. The primary foreign currencies that impacted our results during 2010 were the Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar and Euro. Based on 2010 exchange rates and operating results, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen or weaken by 10%, we currently estimate operating income would decrease or increase between 3% and 5%, assuming that all currencies are impacted in the same manner and our international revenue and expenses remain constant at 2010 current levels.  

The functional currency of our foreign operations is generally their respective local currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates during the period presented. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the stockholders’ equity section of our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and pay expenses in their functional currency, mitigating transaction risk. However, certain subsidiaries may enter into transactions in currencies other than their functional currency. Assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are susceptible to movements in foreign currency until final settlement. Currency transaction gains or losses primarily arising from transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are included in office and general expenses. We have not entered into a material amount of foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of potential adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  

37  

Table of Contents 

We monitor the currencies of countries in which we operate in order to determine if the country should be considered a highly inflationary environment. A currency is determined to be highly inflationary when there is cumulative inflation of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. If this occurs the functional currency of that country would be changed to our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and foreign exchange gains or losses would be recognized on all monetary transactions, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar until the currency is no longer considered highly inflationary. Our Venezuela agencies transitioned to inflationary accounting on January 1, 2010, and as a result, we recorded a foreign exchange translation loss of approximately $5.0 in the first quarter of 2010. This charge was recorded in office and general expenses within the Consolidated Statement of Operations. We have re-measured our local non-monetary transactions, assets and liabilities using the exchange rate of 4.3 Venezuelan Bolivares Fuertes per U.S. dollar. Subsequent to the currency re-measurement, this devaluation did not have a material impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements as we do not have significant operations in Venezuela.  

Credit and Market Risks  

Balance sheet items that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk are primarily cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients. We invest our excess cash in investment-grade, short-term securities and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are mitigated by our large number of clients and their dispersion across different industries and geographic areas. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our clients and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the expected collectability of all accounts receivable.  

Our pension plan assets are also exposed to market risk. The fair value of our pension plan assets may appreciate or depreciate during the year, which can result in lower or higher pension expense and funding requirements in future periods.  

38  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data