Item 1A. Risk Factors  

We are subject to a variety of possible risks that could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Some of these risks relate to general economic and financial conditions, while others are more specific to us and the industry in which we operate. The following factors set out potential risks we have identified that could adversely affect us. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, could also have a negative impact on our business operations or financial condition. See also “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.”  

   •    We operate in a highly competitive industry.  

The marketing communications business is highly competitive. Our agencies and media services compete with other agencies, and with other providers of creative, marketing or media services, to maintain existing client relationships and to win new business. Our competitors include not only other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies, but also smaller entities that operate in local or regional markets. New market participants include database marketing and modeling companies, telemarketers and internet companies.  

The client’s perception of the quality of our agencies’ creative work, our reputation and our agencies’ reputations are important factors that affect our competitive position. An agency’s ability to serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis is also an important competitive consideration. On the other hand, because an agency’s principal asset is its people, freedom of entry into the business is almost unlimited and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s account from a much larger competitor.  

Many companies put their advertising and marketing communications business up for competitive review from time to time. We have won and lost client accounts in the past as a result of such periodic competitions. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 24% of revenue in 2010. A substantial decline in a large client’s advertising and marketing spending, or the loss of a significant part of its business, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations.  

Our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may also, in some cases, be limited by clients’ policies or perceptions about conflicts of interest. These policies can, in some cases, prevent one agency, or even different agencies under our ownership, from performing similar services for competing products or companies.  

6  

Table of Contents 

   •    As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic conditions.  

While we have seen economic recovery in many of our key markets in 2010, areas of uncertainty about the prospects for continued improvements in the global economy and a degree of caution on the part of some marketers continue to have an effect on the demand for advertising and marketing services. The marketing services industry can be affected more severely than other sectors by an economic downtown and can recover more slowly than the economy generally. In the past, some clients have responded to weak economic and financial conditions by reducing their marketing budgets, which include discretionary components that are easier to reduce in the short term than other operating expenses. This pattern may recur in the future. A decrease in our revenue could pose a challenge to our cash generation from operations.  

   •    We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel.  

Our employees, including creative, digital, research, media and account specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among our most valuable assets. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our ability to do so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the compensation we award, and could be adversely affected by our financial or market performance. In addition, the advertising and marketing services industry is characterized by a high degree of employee mobility. If we were to fail to attract key personnel or lose them to competitors or clients, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

   •    If our clients experience financial distress, their weakened financial position could negatively affect our own financial position and results.  

We have a large and diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. Unfavorable economic and financial conditions could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients, and if these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments of intangible assets, credit facility covenant violations and reduced liquidity. For a description of our client base, see “Clients” in Item 1, Business.  

   •    Our financial condition could be adversely affected if our available liquidity is insufficient.  

We maintain a committed credit facility to increase our financial flexibility (as amended and restated as of April 23, 2010, the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, and events like a material economic downturn could adversely affect our ability to comply with them. For example, compliance with the financial covenants would be more difficult to achieve if we were to experience substantially lower revenues, a substantial increase in client defaults or sizable asset impairment charges. If we were unable to comply with any of the financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, we could be required to seek further amendments or waivers, and our costs under the Credit Agreement could increase. If we were unable to obtain a necessary amendment or waiver, the Credit Agreement could be terminated. Furthermore, the Credit Agreement includes commitments from a syndicate of financial institutions, and if any of them were unable to perform and no other bank assumed that institution’s commitment, the availability of credit under that agreement would be correspondingly reduced. If credit under the Credit Agreement were unavailable or insufficient, our liquidity could be adversely affected.  

If our business is significantly adversely affected by difficult economic conditions, adverse conditions in the credit markets, unavailability of credit or otherwise, it could lead us to seek new or additional sources of liquidity to fund our needs. There can be no guarantee that we would be able to access any new sources of liquidity on commercially reasonable terms or at all. For further discussion of our liquidity profile and outlook, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

   •    We may not be able to meet our performance targets and milestones.  

From time to time, we communicate to the public certain targets and milestones for our financial and operating performance that are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance. They should not be understood as predictions or guidance about our expected performance. Our ability to meet any target or milestone is subject to inherent  

7  

Table of Contents 

 risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on them. Similarly, we may not realize the intended advantages of past or future investments or acquisitions of businesses because we may incorrectly evaluate risks and benefits from these transactions, or have unforeseen difficulties integrating them into our organization. See “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.”  

   •    Our earnings would be adversely affected if we were required to recognize asset impairment charges or increase our deferred tax valuation allowances.  

We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill, other intangible assets and fixed assets), investments and deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability annually or whenever there is an indication that they are impaired or not realizable. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance.  

As of December 31, 2010, we have substantial amounts of long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including approximately $3.4 billion of goodwill. Future events, including our financial performance, market valuation of us or market multiples of comparable companies, loss of a significant client’s business or strategic decisions, could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that the asset values associated with long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments may have become impaired. For further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets, and our sensitivity analysis of our valuation of these assets, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Any significant impairment loss would have an adverse impact on our reported earnings in the period in which the charge is recognized.  

   •    International business risks could adversely affect our operations.  

We are a global business. Operations outside the United States represent a significant portion of our revenues, approximately 43% in 2010. These operations are exposed to risks that include local legislation, currency variation, exchange control restrictions, and difficult local political or economic conditions. In developing countries or regions, we may face further risks, such as slower receipt of payments, nationalization, social and economic instability, currency repatriation restrictions and undeveloped or inconsistently enforced commercial laws. These risks may limit our ability to grow our business and effectively manage our operations in those countries. In addition, because a significant portion of our business is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such as the Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Yuan Renminbi, Euro, Japanese Yen and Pound Sterling, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and such currencies may materially affect our financial results.  

   •    Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us.  

We can be adversely affected if our credit ratings are downgraded or if they are significantly weaker than those of our competitors, because ratings are an important factor influencing our ability to access capital and the terms of any new indebtedness, including covenants and interest rates. Our clients and vendors may also consider our credit profile when negotiating contract terms, and if they were to change the terms on which they deal with us, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity.  

   •    We are subject to regulations and other legal or reputational risks that could restrict our activities or negatively impact our performance or our financial condition.  

Our industry is subject to government regulation and other governmental action, both domestic and foreign. Advertisers and consumer groups may challenge advertising through legislation, regulation, judicial actions or otherwise, for example on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive or injurious to public welfare. Our business is also subject to specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements applicable to advertising for certain products. Legislators, agencies and other governmental units may continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products, such as alcohol or tobacco, and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising, which, if successful, may hinder our ability to accomplish our clients’ goals and have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and, consequently, on our revenues. Furthermore, we could suffer reputational risk as a result of governmental or legal action or from undertaking controversial work that may be challenged by consumer groups.  

8  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

 Item 2. Properties