Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

The statements in this section describe the most significant risks to our business and should be considered carefully in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. In addition, the statements in this section and other sections of this Form 10-K include “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve uncertainties that could significantly impact results. Forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events about the company or our outlook. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact they do not relate to historical or current facts and by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “will be,” “should,” “plan,” “project,” “intend,” “could” and similar words or expressions. 

Forward-looking statements may include statements relating to future actions, prospective products, product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, economic conditions, potential returns, financial condition and financial results. Such statements are based on assumptions and on known risks and uncertainties. Although we believe we have been prudent in our assumptions, any or all of our forward-looking statements may prove to be inaccurate, and we can make no guarantees about our future performance. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and/or those anticipated, estimated or projected. 

10 

Table of Contents 

The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should, however, consult any subsequent disclosures we make in our filings with the SEC on Form 10-Q or Form 8-K. 

The following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. It is impossible to predict or identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the following factors to be a complete discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. 

Our business is highly sensitive to global economic conditions and economic conditions in the industries and markets we serve. 

Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global economy generally and in various capital markets. The demand for our products and services tends to be cyclical and can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, lower corporate earnings and lower levels of government and business investment. A prolonged period of slow growth may also reduce demand for our products and services. Economic conditions vary across regions and countries, and demand for our products generally increases in those regions and countries experiencing economic growth and investment. A change in the global mix of regions and countries experiencing economic growth and investment could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

The energy and mining industries are major users of our products, including the coal, iron ore, gold, copper, oil and natural gas industries. Decisions to purchase our products are dependent upon the performance of the industries in which our customers operate. If demand or output in these industries increases, the demand for our products will generally increase. Likewise, if demand or output in these industries declines, the demand for our products will generally decrease. Prices of commodities in these industries are frequently volatile and change in response to general economic conditions, economic growth, government actions, regulatory actions, commodity inventories and any disruptions in production or distribution. We assume certain prices for key commodities in preparing our general economic and financial outlooks (outlooks). Commodity prices lower than those assumed in our outlooks may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

The rates of infrastructure spending, housing starts and commercial construction also play a significant role in our results. Our products are an integral component of these activities, and as these activities increase or decrease inside or outside of the United States, demand for our products may be significantly impacted, which could negatively impact our results. Slower rates of economic growth than anticipated in our outlooks could also adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Changes in government monetary or fiscal policies may negatively impact our results. 

Most countries have established central banks to regulate monetary systems and influence economic activities, generally by adjusting interest rates. Interest rate changes affect overall economic growth, which affects demand for residential and nonresidential structures, energy and mined products, which in turn affects sales of our products that serve these activities. Interest rate changes also affect our customers’ ability to finance machine purchases, can change the optimal time to keep machines in a fleet and can impact the ability of our suppliers to finance the production of parts and components necessary to manufacture and support our products. Our outlooks typically include assumptions about interest rates in a number of countries. Interest rates higher than those contained in our assumptions could result in lower sales than anticipated and supply chain inefficiencies. 

Central banks and other policy arms of many countries take actions to vary the amount of liquidity and credit available in an economy. Liquidity and credit policies different from those assumed in our outlooks could impact the customers and markets we serve or our suppliers, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

11 

Table of Contents 

Government policies on taxes and spending also affect our business. Throughout the world, government spending finances a significant portion of infrastructure development, such as highways, airports, sewer and water systems and dams. Tax regulations determine depreciation lives and the amount of money users of our products can retain, both of which influence investment decisions. Unfavorable developments, such as declines in government revenues, decisions to reduce public spending or increases in taxes, could negatively impact our results. 

Commodity or component price increases and significant shortages of component products may adversely impact our financial results or our ability to meet commitments to customers. 

We are a significant user of steel and many other commodities required for the manufacture of our products. As a result, unanticipated increases in the prices of such commodities would increase our costs more than expected, negatively impacting our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to fully offset the effect of these increased costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. 

We rely on suppliers to secure component products, particularly steel, required for the manufacture of our products. During the 2008-2009 global economic downturn, we reduced our own production levels and, as a result, our suppliers experienced significant decreases in demand for their products. Since 2010, we have significantly increased production levels and have announced a number of capacity expansion programs. We cannot guarantee that key suppliers will increase production in time to meet growing demand for our products. A disruption in deliveries to or from suppliers or decreased availability of components or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. Our business, competitive position, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted if supply is insufficient for our operations. 

Disruptions or volatility in global financial markets could limit our sources of liquidity, or the liquidity of our customers, dealers and suppliers. 

Global economic conditions may cause volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. During the 2008-2009 global economic downturn, financial markets decreased the availability of liquidity, credit and credit capacity for certain issuers, including certain of our customers, dealers and suppliers. Although we generally generate funds from our operations to pay our operating expenses, fund our capital expenditures, fund our employee retirement benefit programs, pay dividends and buy back stock, continuing to meet these cash requirements over the long-term requires substantial liquidity and access to sources of funds, including capital and credit markets. Changes in global economic conditions, including material cost increases and decreases in economic activity in the markets that we serve, and the success of plans to manage cost increases, inventory and other important elements of our business may significantly impact our ability to generate funds from operations. Market volatility, changes in counterparty credit risk, the impact of government intervention in financial markets and general economic conditions may also adversely impact our ability to access capital and credit markets to fund operating needs. An inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. 

In addition, the global demand for our products generally depends on customers’ ability to pay for our products, which, in turn, depends on their access to funds. Subject to global economic conditions, customers may experience increased difficulty in generating funds from operations. Further, following capital and credit market volatility and uncertainty, many financial institutions have revised their lending standards, thereby decreasing access to capital. If capital and credit market volatility occurs, customers’ liquidity may decline which, in turn, would reduce their ability to purchase our products. 

12 

Table of Contents 

Our global operations are exposed to political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we operate. 

Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including in countries with political and economic instability. In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than in our other markets. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes us to a number of risks, including: 

· multiple and potentially conflicting laws, regulations and policies that are subject to change; 

· imposition of currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or other restraints; 

· imposition of burdensome tariffs or quotas; 

· national and international conflict, including terrorist acts; and 

· political and economic instability or civil unrest that may severely disrupt economic activity in affected countries. 

The occurrence of one or more of these events may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Failure to maintain our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing and could adversely affect our access to capital markets. 

Caterpillar’s and Cat Financial’s costs of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions but also by the short- and long-term debt ratings assigned to their debt by the major credit rating agencies. These ratings are based, in significant part, on Caterpillar’s and Cat Financial’s performance as measured by financial metrics such as net worth and interest coverage and leverage ratios, as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. In 2009, each of the major credit rating agencies either modified their outlook for the company and Cat Financial or downgraded the rating. While the rating agencies subsequently improved their outlooks to stable, there can be no assurance that Caterpillar’s or Cat Financial’s credit ratings will not be lowered in the future. 

Although the company and Cat Financial have committed credit facilities to provide liquidity, any downgrades of our credit ratings may increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including restricting, in whole or in part, our access to the commercial paper market. There can be no assurance that the commercial paper market will continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing for the company. An inability to access the capital markets could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. 

Our Financial Products line of business is subject to risks associated with the financial services industry. 

Difficult and volatile market conditions may have an adverse effect upon the financial industry in which Cat Financial operates. Cat Financial is significant to our operations and provides financing support to a significant share of our global sales. The inability of Cat Financial to access funds to support its financing activities to our customers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

13 

Table of Contents 

Inherent in the operation of Cat Financial is the credit risk associated with its customers. The creditworthiness of each customer and the rate of delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly impacted by several factors, including relevant industry and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and expertise of the customer’s management team, commodity prices, political events and the sustained value of the underlying collateral. 

Changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions could have an adverse effect on Cat Financial’s and our earnings and cash flows. Because a significant number of the loans made by Cat Financial are made at fixed interest rates, its business is subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Changes in market interest rates may influence its financing costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of derivative contracts and could reduce its and our earnings and cash flows. In addition, because Cat Financial makes a significant number of loans in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could also reduce its and our earnings and cash flows. Although Cat Financial manages interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and market liquidity risks through a variety of techniques, including a match funding program, the selective use of derivatives and a broadly diversified funding program, there can be no assurance that fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions will not have an adverse effect on its and our earnings and cash flows. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies Cat Financial uses to hedge its exposure to these various types of risk is ineffective, we may incur losses. With respect to Cat Insurance’s investment activities, changes in the equity and bond markets could cause an impairment of the value of its investment portfolio, requiring a negative adjustment to earnings. 

The U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) was signed into law in July 2010 and includes extensive provisions regulating the financial services industry. We continue to monitor and evaluate the impact of this legislation as regulators propose, adopt and enforce the implementing rules. We are also monitoring other U.S. and international initiatives to further regulate the financial services industry. If the Dodd-Frank rules, as implemented, or other laws or regulations impose significant costs or restrictions on the company or Cat Financial, we could experience an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

Cat Financial relies on a number of diversified global debt markets and funding programs to provide liquidity for its global operations, including commercial paper, medium term notes, retail notes, variable denomination floating rate demand notes, asset-backed securitizations and bank loans. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions could impact Cat Financial’s access to funding, increase the associated funding costs and reduce its and our earnings and cash flows. A large portion of Cat Financial’s borrowings have been issued in the medium term note and commercial paper markets. While Cat Financial has maintained access to key global medium term note and commercial paper markets, there can be no assurance that such markets will continue to represent a reliable source of financing for Cat Financial. Should global economic conditions deteriorate or access to debt markets be reduced, Cat Financial could experience materially higher financing costs and become unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow its business and/or meet its debt service obligations as they mature, or it could be required to draw upon contractually committed lending agreements primarily provided by global banks and/or by seeking other funding sources. However, under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance such agreements and other funding sources would be available or sufficient. Any of these events could negatively impact Cat Financial’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The extent of any impact on our ability to meet funding or liquidity needs would depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of any future market disruptions, the effects of governmental intervention in the financial markets including the effects of any programs or legislation designed to increase or restrict liquidity for certain areas of the market, general credit conditions, the volatility of equity and debt markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity and the cost of financing and other general economic and business conditions. 

Market disruption and volatility may also lead to a number of other risks, including: 

· Market developments that may affect customer confidence levels and cause declines in the demand for financing and adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could impact Cat Financial’s write-offs and provision for credit losses. 

· The process Cat Financial uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires a high degree of 

14 

Table of Contents 

management’s judgment regarding numerous subjective qualitative factors, including forecasts of economic conditions and how economic predictors might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. Financial market disruption and volatility may impact the accuracy of these judgments. 

· Cat Financial’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions or borrow from other financial institutions on acceptable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. 

· As Cat Financial’s counterparties are primarily financial institutions, their ability to perform in accordance with any of its underlying agreements could be adversely affected by market volatility and/or disruptions in financial markets. 

We engage in acquisitions and divestitures, including the acquisition of Bucyrus; we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of these transactions or these benefits may take longer to realize than expected. 

From time to time we engage in strategic transactions involving risks, including the possible failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or realize the expected benefits of such transactions. On July 8, 2011, we acquired Bucyrus, and subsequently announced our intention to sell the Bucyrus distribution business to Caterpillar dealers who support mining customers. We are working to integrate the mining businesses of both companies, to transition the Bucyrus distribution business to our dealers and to realize the benefits of this acquisition. We may not receive sufficient proceeds from the sale of the Bucyrus distribution business to offset the sales and service revenues we will forego as a result of this transfer. Even if the mining businesses are successfully integrated and the Bucyrus distribution business is successfully transferred to our dealers, we may not realize the full benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. In addition, the integration may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities or competitive responses. The risks associated with this acquisition and our other past or future acquisitions include: 

· The business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture; 

· Technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not occur as expected; 

· Unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions may be imposed upon the acquisition, including due to required regulatory approvals or consents; 

· The company may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities or be subject to unexpected penalties or other enforcement actions; 

· Faulty assumptions may be made regarding the integration process; 

· Unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating operations, processes and systems; 

· Higher than expected investments may be required to implement necessary compliance processes and related systems, including IT systems, accounting systems and internal controls over financial reporting; 

· The company may fail to retain, motivate and integrate key management and other employees of the acquired business; 

· Higher than expected finance costs may arise due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any jurisdiction in which the acquired business conducts its operations; and 

· The company may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer bases. 

15 

Table of Contents 

Many of these factors will be outside of the company’s control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and attention. 

In addition, in order to conserve cash for operations, we may undertake acquisitions financed in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. Such acquisition financing could result in a decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. If we issue equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. 

Failure to implement the company’s acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we make strategic divestitures from time to time. These divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, including through guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. Lower performance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results. 

International trade policies may impact demand for our products and our competitive position. 

Government policies on international trade and investment such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs, whether adopted by individual governments or addressed by regional trade blocs, can affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, in countries in which we sell large quantities of products and services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, a government’s adoption of “buy national” policies or retaliation by another government against such policies could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 

Our introduction of Tier 4 emissions compliant machines and engines may not be successful. 

Regulatory agencies have adopted new and more stringent emission standards, including EPA Tier 4 Interim and Tier 4 Final nonroad diesel emission requirements and equivalent standards in the EU, Japan and Canada (Tier 4). The first phase of these standards, Tier 4 Interim, applied to the majority of our nonroad machinery and engine products commencing in 2011. We are using certain technology with state of the art integrated systems, as well as the transitional provisions provided by the regulations in order to comply with the Tier 4 emissions requirements. 

Our plans to meet Tier 4 emissions requirements are subject to many variables, including the timing of our Tier 4 engine development and new machine product introduction. If we are unable to meet our plans as projected, it could delay or inhibit our ability to continue placing certain products on the market, which could negatively impact our financial results and competitive position. We are incurring research and development costs to design and introduce products to meet Tier 4 requirements. We are including costs associated with Tier 4 development and production in prices of our products. The level of market acceptance of prices for products that meet Tier 4 requirements could negatively impact our financial results and competitive position. 

The success of our business depends on our ability to develop, produce and market quality products that meet our customers’ needs. 

Our business relies on continued global demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to our dealers, OEMs and customers. This is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to manage and maintain key dealer relationships, our ability to produce products that meet the quality, performance and price expectations of our customers and our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs. In addition, our continued success in selling products that appeal to our customers is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations, and on the availability and effectiveness of legal protection for our innovation. Failure to continue to deliver quality and competitive products to the marketplace, to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, to supply products that meet applicable regulatory requirements or to predict market demands for, or gain market acceptance of, our products, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

16 

Table of Contents 

We operate in a highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect our sales and pricing. 

We operate in a highly competitive environment, and our outlook depends on a forecast of the company’s share of industry sales based on our ability to compete with others in the marketplace. The company competes on the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with other companies’ products. Thus, our share of industry sales could be reduced due to aggressive pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, our failure to price our products competitively, our failure to produce our products at a competitive cost or an unexpected buildup in competitors’ new machine or dealer-owned rental fleets, leading to severe downward pressure on machine rental rates and/or used equipment prices. 

Our sales outlook assumes that certain price increases we announce from time to time will hold in the marketplace. Changes in market acceptance of price increases, changes in market requirements for price discounts or changes in our competitors’ behavior could have an adverse impact on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 

In addition, our results and ability to compete may be impacted negatively by changes in our sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain geographic mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could be negatively impacted. 

We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from capacity expansion projects, cost-reduction initiatives, cash flow improvement initiatives and efficiency or productivity initiatives, including the Caterpillar Production System (CPS). 

We have announced a number of capacity expansion projects to meet growing demand and to expand our share of industry sales. There can be no assurance that the benefits expected from these projects will be realized as anticipated or at all. Certain of our competitors have also announced investments to increase capacity. Industry overcapacity could contribute to a weak pricing environment, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

We are also actively engaged in a number of initiatives to increase our productivity, efficiency and cash flow and to reduce costs, which have had a positive effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. CPS is a productivity initiative that aims to improve our order-to-delivery processes and factory efficiency, as well as to reduce waste and maximize value for our customers. We are also in the process of implementing a new operating and financial reporting system in many of our businesses to increase efficiency and harmonize our operations and reporting. There can be no assurance that these systems and initiatives or others will continue to be beneficial to the extent anticipated, or that the estimated efficiency improvements, incremental cost savings or cash flow improvements will be realized as anticipated or at all. If our new operating and reporting system is not implemented successfully, it could have an adverse effect on our operations and results of operations, including our ability to report accurate and timely financial results. 

Our business is subject to the sourcing practices of our dealers and our OEM customers. 

We sell finished products through an independent dealer network and directly to OEMs. Both carry inventories of finished products as part of ongoing operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future needs. Such adjustments can impact our results either positively or negatively. In particular, some of our engine customers are OEMs that manufacture or could in the future manufacture engines for their own products. Despite their engine manufacturing abilities, these customers have chosen to outsource certain types of engine production to us due to the quality of our engine products and in order to reduce costs, eliminate production risks and maintain company focus. However, we cannot assure that these customers will continue to outsource engine manufacture in the future. Decreased levels of production outsourcing by these customers could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers’ business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries. A significant reduction in the level of engine production outsourcing from our OEM customers could significantly impact our revenues and, accordingly, have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

17 

Table of Contents 

We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs. 

Our facilities, operations and products are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials. While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, we cannot provide assurances that we will not be adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations or under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 

In particular, our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing exhaust emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory agencies in the United States and other regulatory agencies around the world. For instance, national, state or local governments may set new emissions standards that could impact our products and operations in ways that are difficult to anticipate with accuracy. Thus, significant changes in standards, or the adoption of new standards, have the potential to negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. 

Our global operations are subject to extensive trade and anti-corruption laws and regulations. 

Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and regulations, including U.S. regulations issued by Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, as well as the counterparts of these agencies in other countries. Any alleged or actual violations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability to import or export our products or to provide services outside the United States. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. 

In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, or obtaining an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition. 

Moreover, several of our joint venture partners are domiciled in areas of the world with laws, rules and business practices that differ from those in the United States. Although we strive to select joint venture partners who share our values and understand our reporting requirements as a U.S.-domiciled company and to ensure that an appropriate business culture exists within these ventures to minimize and mitigate our risk, we nonetheless face the reputational and legal risk that our joint venture partners will violate applicable laws, rules and business practices. 

We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure. 

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws and regulations. We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on the company’s provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. 

18 

Table of Contents 

Currency exchange rate fluctuations affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. 

We conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, because our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. While we customarily enter into financial transactions to address these risks, there can be no assurance that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 

We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. 

Restrictive covenants in our debt agreements could limit our financial and operating flexibility. 

We maintain a number of credit facilities to support (i) our commercial paper program and (ii) general corporate purposes (facilities) and have issued debt securities to manage liquidity and fund operations (debt securities). The agreements relating to a number of the facilities and the debt securities contain certain restrictive covenants applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries, including Cat Financial. These covenants include maintaining a consolidated net worth (defined as the consolidated stockholder’s equity including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other post-retirement benefits balance within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) of not less than $9 billion, limitations on the incurrence of liens and certain restrictions on consolidation and merger. Cat Financial has also agreed under certain of these agreements to maintain a leverage ratio (consolidated debt to consolidated net worth, calculated (1) on a monthly basis as the average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months and (2) at each December 31) not greater than 10.0 to 1, to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio (profit excluding income taxes, interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to interest expense, calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four quarter period then most recently ended) of not less than 1.15 to 1 and not to terminate, amend or modify its support agreement with us. 

Although we do not believe any of these covenants presently materially restrict our operations, a breach of one or more of the covenants could result in adverse consequences that could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. These consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of the facilities, triggering of an obligation to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our lenders, refusal by our lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the facilities or to enter into new facilities or the lowering or modification of our credit ratings or those of one or more of our subsidiaries. 

Sustained increases in funding obligations under our pension plans may reduce our profitability. 

We maintain certain defined benefit pension plans for our employees, which impose on us certain funding obligations. In determining our future payment obligations under the plans, we assume certain rates of return on the plan assets and growth rates of certain costs. Significant adverse changes in credit or capital markets could result in actual rates of return being materially lower than projected and increased pension expense in future years. We may be required to make contributions to our pension plans in the future, and these contributions could be material. Our cost growth rates may also be materially higher than projected. These factors could significantly increase our payment obligations under the plans, require us to take a significant charge on our balance sheet and, as a result, adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Union disputes or other employee relations issues could adversely affect our operations and financial results. 

Some of our employees are represented by labor unions in a number of countries under various collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. There can be no assurance that any current or future issues 

19 

Table of Contents 

with our employees will be resolved or that we will not encounter future strikes, work stoppages or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate collective bargaining agreements in the United States and other countries when they expire. If we fail to renegotiate our existing collective bargaining agreements, we could encounter strikes or work stoppages or other types of conflicts with labor unions. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future. We may also be subject to general country strikes or work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. Any such work stoppages (or potential work stoppages) could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Costs associated with lawsuits or investigations or increases in the reserves we establish based on our assessment of contingencies may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

We face an inherent business risk of exposure to various types of claims and lawsuits. We are involved in various intellectual property, product liability, product warranty and environmental claims and lawsuits and other legal proceedings that arise in and outside of the ordinary course of our business. The industries in which we operate are also periodically reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any such claims. 

As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies, including contingencies related to legal claims asserted against us. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Additional carbon emissions constraints may impact our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position. 

The potential for government-mandated reductions of carbon emissions from our facilities and products is increasing. Mandatory legislative, regulatory and/or policy-based constraints are being implemented or considered by many jurisdictions. For example, the EPA has promulgated regulations governing carbon emissions from automobiles and heavy-duty on-highway diesel vehicles, which may lead to regulation of other mobile sources. Although various attempts to pass comprehensive legislation reducing carbon emissions have been unsuccessful in the United States, the EPA has also proceeded with regulating carbon emissions from stationary sources under existing law. The final details and scope of these various legislative, regulatory and policy measures around the world are unclear and their potential impact is still uncertain, so we cannot fully predict the impact on the company. However, should legislation or regulations be adopted imposing significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon us or our products, they could negatively impact the company’s capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position. 

Changes in accounting guidance could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. 

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting guidance and related interpretations issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC. Market conditions have prompted accounting guidance setters to issue new guidance that further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to various transactions as well as to issue new guidance expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in this annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided, as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, their effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting guidance we  

20 

Table of Contents 

are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, as reported in our consolidated financial statements. 

Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services. 

We rely upon IT systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, and we collect and store sensitive data. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. A failure of or breach in security could expose the company and our customers, dealers and suppliers to risks of misuse of information or systems, the compromising of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business and results of operations. In addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures. 

Unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations. 

The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather in the United States or in other countries in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, pandemic illness, equipment failures, power outages or other unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and international suppliers, disruption in the transport of our products to dealers and end-users and delay in the delivery of our products to our distribution centers. Existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for all of the costs that may arise from such events. 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments as of December 31, 2011. 

None. 

Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant as of December 31, 2011. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

21 

Table of Contents 

Item 2. Properties.