PART I  

  ITEM 1.   Business.    

Company Overview 

At TI, we design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. We began operations in 1930. We are incorporated in Delaware, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and have design, manufacturing or sales operations in more than 30 countries. We have four segments: Analog, Embedded Processing, Wireless and Other. We expect Analog and Embedded Processing to be our primary growth engines in the years ahead, and we therefore focus our resources on these segments. 

We were the world’s fourth largest semiconductor company in 2009 as measured by revenue, according to preliminary estimates from an external source. Additionally, we sell calculators and related products. 

Financial information with respect to our segments and our operations outside the United States is contained in the note to the financial statements captioned “Segment and geographic area data” on pages 29 and 30 of TI’s 2009 annual report to stockholders. It is incorporated herein by reference to such annual report. 

Product Information 

Semiconductors are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic systems and equipment. Semiconductors come in two basic forms: individual transistors and integrated circuits (generally known as “chips”) that combine multiple transistors on a single piece of material to form a complete electronic circuit.  Our semiconductors are used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution. Our portfolio includes products that are integral to almost all electronic equipment. 

We sell custom and standard semiconductor products. Custom products are designed for a specific customer for a specific application, are sold only to that customer and are typically sold directly to the customer. The life cycles of custom products are generally determined by end-equipment upgrade cycles and can be as short as 12 to 24 months. Standard products are designed for use by many customers and/or many applications and are generally sold through both distribution and direct channels. They include both proprietary and commodity products. The life cycles of standard products are generally longer than for custom products. 

Additional information regarding each segment’s products follows. 

Analog 

Analog semiconductors change real-world signals – such as sound, temperature, pressure or images – by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as digital signal processors (DSPs). Analog semiconductors are also used to manage power distribution and consumption. Sales to our Analog segment’s nearly 80,000 customers generated about 40 percent of our revenue in 2009. According to external sources, the worldwide market for analog semiconductors was about $32 billion in 2009. Our Analog segment’s revenue in 2009 was $4.3 billion, or about 13 percent of this market, the leading position. We believe that we are well-positioned to increase our market share over time. 

Our Analog product lines are: high-performance analog, high-volume analog & logic and power management. 

High-performance analog products: These include standard analog semiconductors, such as amplifiers, data converters and interface semiconductors (our portfolio includes more than 15,000 products), that we market to many different customers who use them in manufacturing a wide range of products sold in many end markets, including the industrial, communications, computing and consumer electronics markets. High-performance analog products generally have long life cycles, often more than 10 years. 

High-volume analog & logic products: High-volume analog includes products for specific applications, including custom products. The life cycles of our high-volume analog products are generally shorter than those of our high-performance analog products. End markets for high-volume analog products include communications, automotive, computing and many consumer electronics products. Logic and standard linear includes commodity products marketed to many different customers for many different applications.

2 

Power management products: These include both standard and custom semiconductors that help customers manage power in any type of electronic system. We design and manufacture power management semiconductors for both portable devices (battery-powered devices, such as handheld consumer electronics, laptop computers and cordless power tools) and line-powered systems (products that require an external electrical source, such as computers, digital TVs, wireless base stations and high-voltage industrial equipment). 

Embedded Processing 

Our Embedded Processing products include our DSPs (other than DSPs specific to our Wireless segment) and microcontrollers. DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously to process or improve digital data. Microcontrollers are designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment. Sales of Embedded Processing products generated about 15 percent of our revenue in 2009. The worldwide market for embedded processors was about $14 billion in 2009. According to external sources, we have about 11 percent share in this fragmented market, and we believe we are well-positioned to increase our market share over time. 

An important characteristic of our Embedded Processing products is that our customers often invest their own research and development (R&D) to write software that operates on our products. This investment tends to increase the length of our customer relationships because customers prefer to re-use software from one product generation to the next. We make and sell standard, or catalog, Embedded Processing products used in many different applications and custom Embedded Processing products used in specific applications, such as communications infrastructure equipment and automotive. 

Wireless 

Cell phones require a modem or “baseband” to connect to the wireless carrier’s network. Many of today’s advanced cell phones, which contain email, media, games and computing capability, also require an applications processor to run the phone’s software and services, and semiconductors to enable connectivity to Bluetooth® devices, WiFi networks or GPS location services. We design, make and sell products to satisfy each of these requirements. Wireless products are typically sold in high volumes, and our Wireless portfolio includes both standard products and custom products. Sales of Wireless products generated about 25 percent of our revenue in 2009, and a significant portion of our Wireless sales were to a single customer. 

Our Wireless segment has shifted focus from baseband chips, a market with shrinking competitive barriers and slowing growth rates, to applications processors and connectivity products, markets we expect will grow faster than the baseband market. Consistent with this shift in market focus, we are concentrating our Wireless investments on our OMAPTM applications processors and connectivity products and have discontinued further development of standard baseband products. While we continue to sell custom baseband products, we have discontinued essentially all custom baseband investment. We expect substantially all of our baseband revenue, which was $1.73 billion in 2009, to cease by the end of 2012. 

Other 

Our Other segment includes revenue from sales from our smaller semiconductor product lines and of our handheld graphing and scientific calculators, as well as royalties received for our patented technology that we license to other electronics companies. The semiconductor products in our Other segment include DLP® products (primarily used in projectors to create high-definition images), reduced-instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessors (designed to provide very fast computing and often implemented in servers) and custom semiconductors known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). This segment generated about 20 percent of our revenue in 2009. 

Applications for our products 

The table below lists the major end markets that use our products and the approximate percentage of our product revenue that the market represents. The chart also lists the most frequent applications and our products used within these key markets.

3 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Market Characteristics 

Product cycle 

The global semiconductor market is characterized by constant, though generally incremental, advances in product designs and manufacturing processes. Semiconductor prices and manufacturing costs tend to decline over time as manufacturing processes and product life cycles mature. Typically, new chips are produced in limited quantities at first and then ramp to high-volume production over time. 

Market cycle 

The “semiconductor cycle” is an important concept that refers to the ebb and flow of supply. The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand and/or excess manufacturing capacity. This cycle is affected by the significant time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing facilities.

4 

Seasonality 

Our revenue and operating results are subject to some seasonal variation. Our semiconductor sales generally are seasonally weaker in the first quarter than in other quarters, particularly for products sold into cell phones and other consumer electronics devices, which have stronger sales later in the year as manufacturers prepare for the major holiday selling seasons. Calculator revenue is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season and is therefore at its highest in the second and third quarters. Royalty revenue is not always uniform or predictable, in part due to the performance of our licensees and in part due to the timing of new license agreements or the expiration and renewal of existing agreements. 

Competitive landscape 

In each segment, we face significant global competition from numerous large and small companies, including both broad-based suppliers and niche suppliers. We believe that competitive performance in the semiconductor market generally depends on several factors, including the breadth of a company’s product line, technological innovation, technical support, customer service, quality, reliability, price and scale. With expertise in both analog and embedded processing , we believe we are capable of providing best-in-class solutions and system-level knowledge to help our customers create more advanced systems and products and bring their products to market sooner. 

The primary competitive factors for our Analog products include design proficiency, a diverse product portfolio to meet wide-ranging customer needs, manufacturing process technologies that provide differentiated levels of performance and manufacturing expertise. Our primary Analog competitors include Analog Devices, Inc.; Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.; Infineon Technologies AG; Intersil Corporation; Linear Technology Corporation; Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.; National Semiconductor Corporation; NXP B.V.; Richtek Technology Corporation; and STMicroelectronics NV. 

The primary competitive factors for our Embedded Processing products are the ability to design and cost-effectively manufacture products, system-level knowledge about targeted end markets, installed base of software, software expertise, applications support and a product’s performance and power characteristics. Primary competitors of our Embedded Processing segment include Atmel Corporation; Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.; Microchip Technology, Inc.; NEC Electronics; Renesas Technology Corp.; and STMicroelectronics NV. 

The primary competitive factors for our Wireless products are the ability to design and cost-effectively manufacture products, system-level knowledge about targeted end markets, installed base of software, software expertise, applications support and a product’s performance and power characteristics. Primary Wireless competitors include Broadcom Corp.; CSR plc; Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.; Infineon Technologies AG; Intel Corporation; Marvell Technology Group, Ltd.; NVIDIA Corporation; QUALCOMM Incorporated and ST-Ericsson. 

Manufacturing 

Semiconductor manufacturing begins with a sequence of photo-lithographic and chemical processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin silicon wafer. Each device on the wafer is tested and the wafer is cut into pieces called chips. Each chip is assembled into a package that then may be retested. The entire process typically requires between 12 and 18 weeks and takes place in highly specialized facilities. 

We own and operate semiconductor manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. These include both high-volume wafer fabrication and assembly/test facilities. Our facilities require substantial investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets once in operation. Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. In general, these fixed costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of capacity, potentially hurting our profit margins. Conversely, as product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are spread over increased output, potentially benefiting our profit margins. 

The cost and lifespan of the equipment and processes we use to manufacture semiconductors varies by product. Our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products can be manufactured using older, less expensive equipment than is needed for manufacturing advanced logic products, such as our Wireless products. Advanced logic wafer manufacturing continually requires new and expensive processes and equipment. In contrast, the processes and equipment required for manufacturing our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products do not have this requirement. 

To supplement our internal wafer fabrication capacity and maximize our responsiveness to customer demand and return on capital expenditures, our wafer manufacturing strategy utilizes the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly known as foundries. Our strategy involves installing internal wafer fabrication capacity to a level we believe will remain fully utilized over the equipment’s useful lifetime and then outsourcing remaining capacity needs to foundries. In 2009, external foundries provided about 55 percent of the fabricated wafers for our advanced logic manufacturing needs. We expect the proportion of our advanced logic wafers provided by foundries will increase over time. We expect to maintain sufficient internal wafer fabrication capacity to meet the vast majority of our analog production needs.

5 

In addition to using foundries to supplement our wafer fabrication capacity, we selectively use subcontractors to supplement our assembly/test capacity. We generally use subcontractors for assembly/test of products that would be less cost-efficient to complete in-house (e.g., relatively low-volume products that are unlikely to keep internal equipment fully utilized), or when demand temporarily exceeds our internal capacity. We believe we often have a cost advantage in maintaining internal assembly/test capacity. 

Our internal/external manufacturing strategy reduces the level of our required capital expenditures, and thereby reduces our subsequent levels of depreciation below what it would be if we sourced all manufacturing internally. Consequently, we experience less fluctuation in our profit margins due to changing product demand, and lower cash requirements for expanding and updating our manufacturing capabilities. 

In 2009, to expand our existing wafer fabrication capacity, we began installing equipment in the industry’s first 300-millimeter analog wafer factory, located in Richardson, Texas, and are currently qualifying for production. We also opened a new assembly/test facility in the Philippines to significantly increase our assembly/test capacity. 

Inventory 

Our inventory practices differ by product, but we generally maintain inventory levels that are consistent with our expectations of customer demand. Because of the longer product life cycles of standard products and their inherently lower risk of obsolescence, we generally carry more of those products than custom products. Additionally, we sometimes maintain standard-product inventory in unfinished wafer form, allowing greater flexibility to meet final package and test configurations. 

As a result of two multi-year trends, in general we expect to carry higher levels of inventory relative to our revenue expectations (commonly viewed by investors as days of inventory) than in past years. First, standard products have become a larger part of our portfolio. Second, we have increased consignment programs for our largest customers and some distributors and, as a result, we now carry more inventory on average than in the past in order to service the needs of these customers. 

Design Centers 

Our design centers provide design, engineering and product application support as well as after-sales customer service. The design centers are strategically located around the world to take advantage of key technical and engineering talent and proximity to key customers. 

Customers 

Our products are sold to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), contract manufacturers and distributors. (An OEM designs and sells products under its own brand that it manufactures in-house or has manufactured by others. An ODM designs and manufactures products for other companies, which then sell those products under their own brand.) Our largest single customer in 2009 was an OEM, the Nokia group of companies. Sales to Nokia were about 20 percent of our revenue in 2009, and a majority of this revenue was in our Wireless segment. 

Sales and Distribution 

We market and sell our semiconductor products through a direct sales force, distributors and authorized third-party sales representatives. We have sales or marketing offices in over 30 countries worldwide and have expanded our sales networks in the emerging markets of China, India and Eastern Europe over the last few years. Distributors located around the world account for about 30 percent of our revenue. Our distributors maintain an inventory of our products and sell directly to a wide range of customers. They also sell products from our competitors. Our distribution network holds a mix of distributor-owned and TI-consigned inventory. Over time, we expect this mix will shift more toward consignment. We sell our calculator products primarily through retailers and instructional dealers.

6 

Acquisitions, Divestitures and Investments 

From time to time we consider acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen or better focus our business portfolio. We also make investments directly or indirectly in private companies. Investments are focused primarily on next-generation technologies and markets strategic to us. 

Backlog 

We define backlog as of a particular date as firm purchase orders with a customer-requested delivery date within a specified length of time. As customer requirements and industry conditions change, orders may be, under certain circumstances, subject to cancellation or modification of terms such as pricing, quantity or delivery date. Customer order placement practices continually evolve based on customers’ individual business needs and capabilities, as well as industry supply and capacity considerations. Accordingly, our backlog at any particular date may not be indicative of revenue for any future period. Our backlog of orders was $1.79 billion at December 31, 2009, and $0.86 billion at December 31, 2008. 

Raw Materials 

We purchase materials, parts and supplies from a number of suppliers. In some cases we purchase such items from sole source suppliers. The materials, parts and supplies essential to our business are generally available at present, and we believe that such materials, parts and supplies will be available in the foreseeable future. 

Intellectual Property 

We own many patents, and have many patent applications pending, in the United States and other countries in fields relating to our business. We have developed a strong, broad-based patent portfolio and continually add patents to that portfolio. We also have agreements with numerous companies involving license rights and anticipate that other license agreements may be negotiated in the future. In general, our license agreements have multi-year terms and may be renewed after renegotiation. 

Our semiconductor patent portfolio is an ongoing contributor to our revenue. We do not consider our business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent license, although taken as a whole, our rights and the products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important to our business. 

We often participate in industry initiatives to set technical standards. Our competitors may also participate in the same initiatives. Participation in these initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies. 

We own trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business. These trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which are “Texas Instruments” and our corporate monogram. Other valuable trademarks include OMAPTM and DLP®. 

Research and Development 

Our primary area of R&D investment is Analog and Embedded Processing products. We conduct most of our R&D internally. However, we also closely engage with a wide range of universities and select external industry consortia, and we collaborate with our foundry suppliers on semiconductor manufacturing technology. 

From time to time we may terminate R&D projects before completion or decide not to manufacture and sell a developed product. We do not expect that all of our R&D projects will result in products that are ultimately released for sale, or that our projects will contribute significant revenue until at least a few years following completion. 

Our R&D expense was $1.48 billion in 2009, compared with $1.94 billion in 2008 and $2.14 billion in 2007. The recent decrease in our R&D expense is largely the result of our decisions to discontinue R&D for advanced logic manufacturing and Wireless baseband products.

7 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the executive officers of the company and the positions or offices with the company presently held by each person named: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The term of office of the above-listed officers is from the date of their election until their successor shall have been elected and qualified. All executive officers of the company have been employees of the company for more than five years. Mses. Lovett and West and Messrs. Hames, Hubach, Lowe, March, Ritchie and Templeton have served as executive officers of the company for more than five years. Mr. George and Ms. Whitaker became executive officers of the company in 2006. Messrs. Delagi and Heacock became executive officers of the company in 2007. Messrs. Anderson and Novak became executive officers of the company in 2008. Mr. Szczsponik became an executive officer of the company in 2009. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2009, we had 26,584 employees. 

Available Information 

Our Internet address is www.ti.com. Information on our web site is not a part of this report. We make available, free of charge, through our investor relations web site our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Also available through the TI investor relations web site are reports filed by our directors and executive officers on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports. 

Available on our web site at www.ti.com/corporategovernance are: (i) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; (ii) charters for the Audit, Compensation, and Governance and Stockholder Relations Committees of our board of directors; (iii) our Code of Business Conduct; and (iv) our Code of Ethics for TI Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers. Stockholders may request copies of these documents free of charge by writing to Texas Instruments Incorporated, P.O. Box 660199, MS 8657, Dallas, Texas, 75266-0199, Attention: Investor Relations. 

  ITEM 1A.   Risk Factors.