ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand McCormick & Company, Incorporated, our operations and our present business environment. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes thereto contained in Item 8 of this report. The dollar and share information in the charts and tables in the MD&A are in millions, except per share data.

McCormick is a global leader in flavor. The company manufactures, markets and distributes spices, seasoning mixes, condiments and other flavorful products to the entire food industry–retail outlets, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses. We manage our business in two operating segments, consumer and industrial, as described in Item 1 of this report.

Our long-term annual growth objectives are to increase sales 4% to 6%, increase operating income 7% to 9% and increase earnings per share 9% to 11%. Over time, we expect to grow sales with similar contributions from: 1) our base business–driven by brand marketing support, expanded distribution and category growth; 2) product innovation; and 3) acquisitions. We are fueling our investment in growth with cost savings from our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement (CCI) program, an ongoing initiative to improve productivity and reduce costs throughout the organization. In addition to funding brand marketing support, product innovation and other growth initiatives, our CCI program is contributing to higher operating income and earnings per share. 

Our business generates strong cash flow and we have a balanced use of cash. We are using our cash to fund shareholder dividends, with annual increases in each of the past 28 years, and to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions and share repurchases. Each year, we expect a combination of acquisitions and share repurchases to add about 2% to earnings per share growth.

We grew net sales 3% in 2013, which was below our long-term objective of 4% to 6%. While consumer business sales rose 5% as a result of an acquisition in China, pricing actions, product innovation and effective brand marketing, sales declined 1% for our industrial business. Lower demand from quick service restaurants in the U.S. and China more than offset higher sales in several developed markets and expansion in emerging markets. Operating income was $550.5 million in 2013. Excluding special charges of $25.0 million related to reorganization activities in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region (EMEA) and a $15.3 million loss on a voluntary pension settlement, both of which were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013, adjusted operating income rose to $590.8 million from $578.3 million in 2012. This was an increase of 2% and below our long-term objective due in part to the lower rate of sales growth and a significant increase in retirement benefit expense. These factors also impacted 2013 diluted earnings per share, which was $2.91. Excluding the effect of the aforementioned special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement, adjusted diluted earnings per share for 2013 was $3.13, an increase of 3% from $3.04 diluted earnings per share in 2012. 

McCormick continues to generate strong cash flow. Net cash provided by operating activities reached $465.2 million in 2013, an increase from $455.0 million in 2012. A lower contribution to pension plans in 2013 was offset in part by an increase in inventory, largely as a result of strategic purchases and higher material costs. We continued to have a balanced use of cash for capital expenditures, acquisitions and the return of cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. In 2013, that return of cash to our shareholders was a record $357.3 million. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2013 COMPARED TO 2012

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for the fiscal year 2013 rose 2.7% from 2012, with growth in the consumer segment partially offset by a decline in the industrial segment. Pricing actions, taken in response to increased raw material and packaging costs, added 1.5% to sales. The incremental impact of the WAPC acquisition, completed in mid-2013, accounted for a 

1.5% increase to sales, and increased volume and product mix in the base business added 0.1% to sales. The impact of foreign exchange rates was unfavorable in 2013, reducing sales by 0.4%.

In 2014, we expect to grow sales in a 3% to 5% range from 2013 driven by higher volume, pricing and the incremental impact in the first half of 2014 of the WAPC acquisition.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2013, gross profit increased 3.0% while gross profit margin rose 10 basis points. We were able to offset the dollar impact of 3% inflation in raw material and packaging costs with our pricing actions and CCI cost savings. In 2013, CCI cost savings totaled $63 million of which $48 million lowered cost of goods sold. In 2014, we expect to improve in our gross profit margin by 50 to 100 basis points from 2013 due to CCI cost savings, together with a more favorable business mix. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1,075.0 million in 2013 compared to $1,039.5 million in 2012, an increase of $35.5 million or 20 basis points as a percentage of net sales. Retirement benefit expense increased $20.0 million in 2013 largely as a result of a lower interest rate environment at the November 30, 2012 pension measurement date which negatively impacted 2013 expense. Of the increase in retirement benefit expense, approximately 60% impacted selling, general and administrative expenses. In addition, we increased our brand marketing support by $9.6 million to $207.8 million in 2013, with about half of the increase in digital marketing, which is one of our highest return investments in brand marketing support. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2013, we announced several reorganization activities in the EMEA region. We expect to record approximately $27 million of cash and non-cash charges related to this plan. For 2013, we recorded $25.0 million of special charges, with $15.9 million related to employee severance, $6.4 million for asset write-downs and $2.7 million for other exit costs. We expect to record approximately $2 million of additional special charges related to this plan in 2014. Total cash expenditures to implement the plan are expected to occur in 2014 and are estimated to be approximately $18 million. We expect to complete the implementation of this plan by 2015. See note 3 of the financial statements for additional information.

In addition to the $25.0 million in special charges outlined above, we recorded a loss on voluntary pension settlement of $15.3 million in 2013 for the settlement of a portion of our U.S. defined benefit obligation, which reduced the size of our pension obligation and should reduce potential pension volatility in the future. The settlement charge relates to a lump sum distribution elected by certain former U.S. employees in exchange for their deferred vested pension plan benefits. This lump sum payout program was completed in 2013. See note 9 of the financial statements for additional information.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense for 2013 was lower than the prior year. Most of this decrease is due to the impact of lower average debt balances for 2013 compared to 2012, and was partially aided by slightly lower average interest rates in 2013. The higher average debt balances in 2012 were due to the acquisitions completed late in 2011.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Discrete tax benefits in 2013 were $3.9 million compared to $2.0 million in 2012. The increase in 2013 is due to the 2013 recognition of a 2012 U.S. research tax credit and reversal of valuation allowances for two subsidiaries originally established against net operating losses. A new law was enacted in 2013 that retroactively granted the research tax credit in 2012. 

Tax expense for 2012 benefited from U.S. foreign tax credits that reduced tax expense by $9.7 million due to the repatriation of $70 million of cash from foreign subsidiaries. While no such benefit or repatriation occurred in 2013, tax expense in 2013 as a percentage of pre-tax income approximated the 2012 level due primarily to certain favorable items in 2013, which included the utilization of non-U.S. operating losses, lower state and local income taxes, and the inclusion of the U.S. research tax credit for 2013, as well as the increase in discrete tax benefits described above.  

In 2010, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) commenced an examination of our U.S. federal income tax return for the 2007 and 2008 tax years. During the course of the examination, we have held discussions with the IRS on certain issues and, in October 2012, we received proposed adjustments for these tax years. In November 2012, we deposited $18.8 million with the IRS to stop any potential interest on these proposed adjustments. We disagree with certain of the proposed adjustments and in December 2012, we filed a protest to initiate the IRS administrative appeals process. No further significant events occurred in 2013. We believe we have established appropriate tax accruals under US GAAP for these issues. 

In addition, see note 11 of the financial statements for a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate with the effective tax rate.

We expect the tax rate in 2014 to increase from 2013 as a result of the discontinuation of the R&D tax credit, a tax law change in France and the expected mix of business across tax jurisdictions. In addition, we are comparing to the 2013 rate that included $3.9 million of discrete items.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income from unconsolidated operations increased $1.7 million in 2013 compared to 2012. Most of this increase is attributable to our largest joint venture, McCormick de Mexico, through strong sales growth, along with improved performance by our Eastern Condiments joint venture in India. 

In 2013, our McCormick de Mexico joint venture represented 63% of the sales and 78% of the net income of our unconsolidated joint ventures. We own 50% of our other unconsolidated joint ventures, except for a 26% share in our Eastern Condiments joint venture. 

We reported diluted earnings per share of $2.91 in 2013, compared to $3.04 in 2012. The following table outlines the major components of the change in diluted earnings per share from 2012 to 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We measure segment performance based on operating income excluding special charges and the loss on a voluntary pension settlement as these activities are managed separately from the business segments. 

Consumer Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We grew sales in the consumer business 5.1% in 2013 from 2012, which included a 2.5% increase due to the mid-2013 acquisition of WAPC, a 1.7% increase due to higher price, and a 1.0% increase from higher volumes and improved product mix. The effect of foreign exchange rates in 2013 from 2012 was slightly unfavorable, reducing sales by 0.1%.

In the Americas, consumer business sales rose 2.4%, with volume and product mix adding 1.7%, higher pricing adding 0.9% and unfavorable foreign exchange rates lowering sales by 0.2%. Higher volume and product mix was the result of new product introductions and increased brand marketing. In 2013, our new product launches included grilling items, premium recipe mixes, authentic Hispanic rice mixes and new varieties of Lawry’s, Zatarain's and Simply Asia brand products in the U.S. In Canada, we had particular success with gluten-free gravy mixes, introduced new grilling items and imported products from our business in China and affiliate in the Philippines. Across the Americas region, a portion of our incremental brand marketing support was in support of our new products and seasonal events. We also increased our digital marketing activity, which offers a more personalized way to interact with consumers. While we made good progress with these growth initiatives which contributed to strong consumer demand for spices and seasonings throughout 2013, our U.S. sales slowed in the second half of the year. During this period, private label and smaller competitors gained category share. In 2014, we have actions underway to regain momentum with this part of our business that include a significant increase in brand marketing support, accelerated innovation and improved agility in the marketplace. 

In EMEA, consumer business sales increased 3.3%, with pricing and favorable foreign currency exchange rates each adding 1.3%, and higher volume and product mix adding 0.7%. While we had success with new product introductions, increased brand marketing and distribution gains, economic conditions across the region remained challenging. Our innovation in 2013 included the development and introduction of recipe mixes in France and Poland, the launch of grilling items in a number of markets, and new varieties of Vahiné brand dessert items. As in the Americas, higher brand marketing support was devoted to building awareness and trial of new products and towards digital marketing.

In the Asia/Pacific region, sales rose 32.6%. The impact of our 2013 acquisition of WAPC added 30.6% to net sales, pricing added 10.0%, base business volume and product mix declined 4.7% and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates lowered sales by 3.3%. We achieved a double-digit increase in our base business volume and product mix in China. However, crop shortages of basmati rice led to a steep increase in cost and pricing of basmati rice in India during 2013, and a subsequent decline in our sales volume as consumers turned toward lower cost rice varieties. 

Consumer business operating income, excluding special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement, rose to $472.3 million from $456.1 million in 2012, a 3.6% increase. The growth in operating income was the result of higher sales and CCI savings, offset, in part, by higher retirement benefit expense, a $6.9 million increase in brand marketing support, $4.3 million of transaction costs related to the acquisition of WAPC and higher material costs. Operating income margin, excluding the impact of special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement, was 18.6% in 2013 compared to 18.9% in 2012. This reduction was due, in part, to the mix of business across regions, as sales in international markets grew at a faster rate than in the U.S., where our profit margin is higher due to larger scale and less complexity. 

Industrial Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for the industrial business declined 0.8% in 2013. Pricing actions taken to offset the impact of higher material costs added 1.2%, while volume and product mix lowered sales by 1.2% and unfavorable foreign exchange rates decreased sales 0.8%. The decline in volume and product mix was largely attributable to weak demand from quick service restaurants in the U.S. and China. In the U.S., sales to quick service restaurants were impacted by lower restaurant traffic and customer emphasis on menu items for which McCormick is not a leading supplier. In China, consumer concerns, including avian flu, led to reduced demand for poultry throughout most of 2013. As a leading supplier of coatings and seasonings for chicken, this adversely impacted our sales in 2013. 

In the Americas, industrial business sales declined 1.7%. While pricing added 1.2% to sales and favorable foreign currency exchange rates added 0.1%, lower volume and product mix reduced sales 3.0%. Innovation and category growth drove increased sales of seasonings for snack products and sales of branded foodservice items were steady in 2013. However as indicated, demand from quick service restaurants was weak in the U.S. this period. This weakness is expected to extend into the first part of 2014.

In EMEA, industrial business sales rose 1.4%, with a 3.9% increase in volume and product mix as well as a 2.0% increase from pricing actions. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange rates that reduced sales by 4.5%. Demand from quick service restaurants remained robust, and we met this demand with products that we supply from our facilities in the U.K., Turkey and South Africa.

Industrial business sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose slightly, increasing by 0.2%. Higher volume and product mix added 0.6% and was largely offset by lower pricing of 0.1% and unfavorable foreign exchange rates of 0.3%. Product innovation in other parts of the region largely offset the weaker demand from quick service restaurants in China that was described above. By year-end, the situation in China had improved and further improvement is expected in 2014. 

Industrial business operating income, excluding special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement, was $118.5 million compared to $122.2 million in 2012. The benefit of CCI cost savings was more than offset by higher retirement benefit expense, increased material costs and a $2.7 million increase in marketing support for branded foodservice items. Industrial business operating income margin, excluding the impact of special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement, was 7.5% in 2013 compared to 7.6% in 2012.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2012 COMPARED TO 2011

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for 2012 rose 8.6% from 2011 with strong growth in both of our consumer and industrial businesses. Pricing actions, taken in response to increased raw material and packaging costs, added 4.4% to sales. The incremental impact of acquisitions completed in 2011 accounted for a 4.3% increase to sales, and increased volume and product mix in the base business added 1.4% to sales. The impact of foreign exchange rates was unfavorable in 2012, reducing sales 1.5%.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2012, gross profit increased 6.3%, however our gross profit margin declined 90 basis points. In 2012, we were able to offset the dollar impact of a high single digit increase in raw material and packaging costs with our pricing actions and CCI cost savings. In 2012, CCI cost savings totaled $56 million of which $39 million lowered cost of goods sold. While pricing and CCI cost savings offset the dollar impact of increased material costs, the net impact of these factors caused downward pressure on gross profit as a percentage of net sales. Margins were further pressured by our mix of sales in 2012, as sales in international markets grew at a faster rate than in the U.S., where our gross profit margin is higher due to larger scale and less complexity. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 5.8% in 2012 from 2011, but decreased as a percentage of net sales for those same time periods. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of net sales was primarily driven by a leveraging effect of our higher sales on these costs. We had a benefit from CCI cost savings that lowered SG&A $17 million in 2012 and a favorable comparison to 2011 when SG&A included $10.9 million of transaction costs related to completed acquisitions, while 2012 had only $1.7 million of such costs.

During 2012, we increased brand marketing support by $11.0 million from 2011 levels to $198.3 million. A large portion of this increase was in digital marketing, which is one of our highest return investments in brand marketing support. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense for 2012 was higher than the prior year. The impact of higher average debt balances in 2012 compared to 2011 was partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates for 2012 compared to 2011. The higher average debt balances in 2012 were due to the acquisitions completed late in 2011.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2012, we repatriated $70.0 million of cash from foreign subsidiaries. This transaction generated U.S. foreign tax credits due to the mix of foreign earnings that related to this cash. These U.S. foreign tax credits reduced 2012 tax expense by $9.7 million and were the major driving factor in a reduction in the tax rate for 2012 as compared to the prior year.

Discrete tax benefits in 2012 were $2.0 million compared to $0.8 million in 2011. The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the reversal of a portion of a valuation allowance originally established against a subsidiary's net operating losses. This subsidiary has established a pattern of profitability which resulted in us concluding that a portion of the valuation allowance should be reversed.

In addition, see note 11 of the financial statements for a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate with the effective tax rate.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income from unconsolidated operations decreased $3.9 million in 2012 compared to 2011. Most of this decrease was attributable to our largest joint venture, McCormick de Mexico, which was negatively impacted by an unfavorable foreign exchange rate between the Mexican peso and the U.S. dollar for most of 2012. While this business grew sales 6%, profits were also pressured by higher soybean oil cost (a main ingredient for mayonnaise which is the leading product for this joint venture). This situation began in the fourth quarter of 2011 and, by the fourth quarter of 2012, the year-on-year impact had eased. 

In 2012, our McCormick de Mexico joint venture represented 59% of the sales and 82% of the net income of our unconsolidated joint ventures. We own a 26% share in our Eastern Condiments joint venture and on average own 50% of our other unconsolidated joint ventures. 

We reported diluted earnings per share of $3.04 in 2012, compared to $2.79 in 2011. The following table outlines the major components of the change in diluted earnings per share from 2011 to 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consumer Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We grew consumer business sales 9.8% in 2012 when compared to 2011, which included a 7.2% increase from acquisitions completed in 2011. The remaining increase was driven by higher pricing which added 3.7% and volume and product mix which added 0.3%. Unfavorable foreign exchange rates reduced sales by 1.4%.

In the Americas, consumer business sales rose 4.0%, primarily as a result of pricing actions which added 4.5%. These pricing actions, taken in response to an increase in material costs, went into effect late in fiscal year 2011. Our 2011 acquisition of Kitchen Basics® added 0.8% to sales, volume and product mix reduced sales by 1.1% and foreign exchange rates reduced sales by 0.2%. While higher prices had an unfavorable impact on volume and product mix, we offset this in part with our initiatives to drive growth through new product introductions and brand marketing. In 2012, our new product launches included a line of gourmet recipe mixes, authentic Hispanic recipe mixes, Zatarain's frozen Dinners for Two, new varieties of Grill Mates®, and in Canada, Club House brand grinders. A portion of our incremental brand marketing support was in support of our new products. We also increased our digital marketing activity, which offers a more personal way to interact with consumers. Recipe views at www.mccormick.com rose 30% in 2012 and our Facebook fan base grew to 1.5 million. In 2011, we reported that an estimated $10 million in sales shifted from the first quarter of 2011 into the fourth quarter of 2010, as a result of customer purchases in advance of a late 2010 price increase. 

In EMEA, consumer business sales increased 15.3%, with our 2011 acquisition of Kamis adding 16.9% to sales. Unfavorable foreign currency decreased sales 5.7%. In local currency and excluding the impact of acquisitions, we grew sales 4.1% with 2.9% from volume and product mix and 1.2% from pricing actions. During 2012, we successfully completed the integration of Kamis and sales from this Poland-based business benefited from particular strength in its subsidiary in Russia. For the base business in EMEA, strong execution behind product innovation, brand marketing and new distribution enabled us to achieve growth in a difficult economic environment. We have moved to a masterbrand approach to gain synergies and efficiencies in product development and brand marketing support across our country-specific brands. New products introduced in 2012 included Bag 'n Season®, Grill Mates, Recipe Inspirations® and a number of Vahiné brand dessert items.

In the Asia/Pacific region, sales rose 65.3%. The impact of our 2011 Kohinoor joint venture added 53.8% to sales and favorable foreign exchange rates added 0.4%. We grew sales in local currency, excluding the impact of Kohinoor, 11.1% with 7.7% from volume and product mix and 3.4% from pricing. This increase was driven by China where we achieved rapid sales growth of 23.1% based largely on increased consumer demand. In our other market, Australia, we grew sales 2.9% despite a difficult competitive environment, due in part to new product activity. 

Consumer business operating income rose to $456.1 million from $428.4 million in 2011, a 6.4% increase. The growth in operating income was the result of higher sales and CCI savings. Also, operating income in 2011 included the impact of $10.9 million of transaction costs related to the completion of acquisitions that year. In 2012, we invested $13.2 million in additional brand marketing support. Operating income margin was 18.9% in 2012 compared to 19.5% in 2011. This reduction is due in part to the mix of business across regions, as sales in international markets grew at a faster rate than in the U.S., where our profit margin is higher due to larger scale and less complexity. 

Industrial Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for the industrial business grew 6.8% from 2011. Pricing actions taken to offset the impact of higher material costs added 5.3%, while volume and product mix added 3.1% and unfavorable foreign exchange rates decreased sales 1.6%. Both food manufacturers and foodservice customers continue to have an interest in products that feature all natural ingredients, reduced sodium and other healthy attributes. These types of projects accounted for more than 30% of our product development activity during 2012.

In the Americas, we grew industrial business sales 8.2%, with 6.4% from pricing actions and a 2.8% increase from favorable volume and product mix, partially offset by a decrease of 1.0% from unfavorable foreign exchange rates. We grew sales of seasonings and flavors to a number of food manufacturers and also increased sales of branded items to foodservice distributors. However, for the quick service restaurant industry, we saw lower demand for our products and less customer-driven innovation during this period.

In EMEA, industrial business sales rose 5.5%, with a 7.7% increase in volume and product mix as well as a 3.6% increase from pricing actions, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange rates that reduced sales by 5.8%. Demand from quick service restaurants remained strong, and we met this demand with products that we supply from our facilities in the U.K., Turkey and South Africa.

Industrial business sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose 1.1%. Higher pricing added 2.4% and favorable foreign exchange rates added 1.2%, while volume and product mix declined 2.5%. By comparison, volume and product mix for our industrial business in the Asia/Pacific region rose 10.7% in 2011 and included a significant impact from new product introductions and regional expansion by quick service restaurants. 

Industrial business operating income increased to $122.2 million in 2012 from $111.9 million in 2011, a 9.2% increase. The growth in operating income was driven largely by higher sales and cost savings from CCI. Our industrial business operating income margin in 2012 was 7.6%, compared to 7.5% in 2011.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

The tables below include financial measures of adjusted operating income, adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share, each excluding the impact of special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement in 2013. There were no adjustments to 2012 or 2011 financial results. These represent non-GAAP financial measures, which are prepared as a complement to our financial results prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. We believe this non-GAAP information is important for purposes of comparison to prior periods and development of future projections and earnings growth prospects. This information is also used by management to measure the profitability of our ongoing operations and analyze our business performance and trends. 

In 2013, we recorded $25.0 million of special charges related to reorganization activities in the EMEA region and $15.3 million of loss on voluntary pension settlement related to our U.S. pension plan for a lump sum distribution to former employees in exchange for their deferred vested pension plan benefits. We are treating these special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement as adjustments to our operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. We are providing non-GAAP results that exclude the impact of these special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement as it allows for a better comparison of 2013 financial results to 2012 and 2011. See notes 3 and 9 of the financial statements for additional information on the special charges and the loss on voluntary pension settlement, respectively.

These non-GAAP measures may be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but they should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. We intend to continue to provide these non-GAAP financial measures as part of our future earnings discussions and, therefore, the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures will provide consistency in our financial reporting. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP financial results is provided below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to the above non-GAAP measures, we use total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) as a measure of leverage. EBITDA and the ratio of total debt to EBITDA are both non-GAAP financial measures. This ratio measures our ability to repay outstanding debt obligations. Our target for total debt to EBITDA, excluding the temporary impact from acquisition activity, is 1.5 to 1.7. We believe that total debt to EBITDA is a meaningful metric to investors in evaluating our financial leverage and may be different than the method used by other companies to calculate total debt to EBITDA. 

We define adjusted EBITDA as net income plus expenses of interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement. The following table reconciles our adjusted EBITDA to our net income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We generate strong cash flow from operations which enables us to fund operating projects and investments that are designed to meet our growth objectives, increase our dividend, fund capital projects and make share repurchases when appropriate. In 2014, we expect to continue our share repurchase activity and fund all or a portion of possible future acquisitions.

In the cash flow statement, the changes in operating assets and liabilities are presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these do not reflect actual cash flows. Accordingly, the amounts in the cash flow statement do not agree with changes in the operating assets and liabilities that are presented in the balance sheet.

The reported values of our assets and liabilities held in our non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates can be significantly affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between periods. At November 30, 2013, the exchange rates for the Euro, Polish zloty and British pound sterling were higher versus the U.S. dollar compared to 2012. At November 30, 2013, the exchange rate for the Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Indian rupee versus the U.S. dollar were lower than at November 30, 2012. 

Operating Cash Flow – Operating cash flow was $465.2 million in 2013, $455.0 million in 2012 and $340.0 million in 2011. The variability between years is due in part to changes in pension contributions which were $42.7 million in 2013, $104.3 million in 2012 and $42.7 million in 2011. The change in inventory also had an impact on the variability in cash flow from operations, as it was a use of cash in 2013 and 2011 and a source of cash in 2012. Higher net income in 2012 compared to 2011 was also a factor in the increased cash flow in 2012. 

In addition to operating cash flow, we also use cash conversion cycle (CCC) to measure our working capital management. This metric is different than operating cash flow in that it uses average balances instead of specific point in time measures. CCC is a calculation of the number of days, on average, that it takes us to convert a cash outlay for resources, such as raw materials, to a cash inflow from collection of accounts receivable. Our goal is to lower our CCC over time. We calculate CCC as follows:

Days sales outstanding (average trade accounts receivable divided by average daily net sales) plus days in inventory (average inventory divided by average daily cost of goods sold) less days payable outstanding (average trade accounts payable divided by average daily cost of goods sold plus the average daily change in inventory).

The following table outlines our cash conversion cycle (in days) over the last three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in CCC from 2012 to 2013 is due to an increase in our days sales outstanding and a decrease in our days payable outstanding. The increase in days sales outstanding was due in part to a greater customer response in 2013 to our U.S. holiday display program, which includes extended terms. The decrease in CCC from 2011 to 2012 is mainly due to a decrease in our days in inventory as a result of decreased strategic raw material inventory. In the future we expect to continue to reduce CCC by decreasing our days in inventory.

Investing Cash Flow – Net cash used in investing activities was $239.7 million in 2013, $109.0 million in 2012 and $537.5 million in 2011. The variability between years is principally a result of cash usage related to our acquisitions of businesses and joint venture interests, which amounted to $142.3 million in 2013 and $441.4 million in 2011. We did not make any acquisitions in 2012. See note 2 of the financial statements for further details related to these acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $99.9 million in 2013, $110.3 million in 2012 and $96.7 million in 2011. We expect 2014 capital expenditures to range between $120 million and $130 million.

Financing Cash Flow – Net cash used in financing activities was $245.9 million in 2013 and $324.3 million in 2012. In 2011, net cash provided from financing activities was $187.8 million. The variability between years is principally a result of share repurchase and dividend activity, described below, and of changes in our net borrowing activity. In 2013, our net borrowing activity provided cash of $66.7 million. We received net cash proceeds of $246.2 million from our issuance of $250 million of 3.50% notes due 2023. We used these net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay $250 million of maturing 5.25% notes and $1.4 million of other long-term debt, and we increased our net short-term borrowings by $71.9 million in 2013. In 2012, our net borrowing activity used cash of $80.5 million, due principally to a $76.6 million net reduction in short-term borrowings. In 2011, our net borrowing activity provided cash of $367.6 million. In 2011, we received $247.5 million from our issuance of $250 million of 3.90% notes due 2021. These proceeds were used to partially fund our acquisition of Kamis. In 2011, we also repaid $101.1 million of long-term debt and increased our net short-term borrowings by $216.7 million. 

The following table outlines the activity in our share repurchase programs (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of November 30, 2013, $360 million remained of a $400 million share repurchase program that was authorized by our Board of Directors in April 2013. During the fourth quarter of 2013, we completed a previous $400 million share repurchase program that had been authorized in June 2010. 

The common stock issued in 2013, 2012 and 2011 relates to our stock compensation plans.

Our dividend history over the past three years is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In November 2013, the Board of Directors approved an 8.8% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.34 to $0.37 per share. During the past five years, dividends per share have risen at a compound annual rate of 9.0%.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in our total debt to adjusted EBITDA from 2011 to 2013 are mainly due to changes in our debt in conjunction with acquisition activity and the subsequent reduction of that debt. In 2011, we increased our debt levels to help fund our Kohinoor, Kamis and Kitchen Basics acquisitions. During 2012, the debt associated with these acquisitions was reduced to bring our total debt to EBITDA within our target range of 1.5 to 1.7. For 2013, our EBITDA is lower due to the impact of the special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement. Excluding the impact of special charges and loss on voluntary pension settlement, adjusted EBITDA for 2013 was $722.2 million and the ratio of total debt to adjusted EBITDA was 1.71.

Most of our cash is in our foreign subsidiaries. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct our business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The permanent repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences; however, those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations, capital projects and future acquisitions. At year end, we temporarily used $102.3 million of cash from our foreign subsidiaries to pay down short-term debt in the U.S. The average short-term borrowings outstanding for the years ended November 30, 2013 and 2012 were $390.7 million and $417.6 million, respectively. The total average debt outstanding for the years ended November 30, 2013 and 2012 was $1,395.7 million and $1,422.6 million, respectively.

In November 2012 and in April and August 2013, we entered into a total of $175 million of forward-starting interest rate swap and Treasury rate lock agreements to manage our interest rate risk associated with the anticipated issuance of fixed rate notes in August 2013. We cash settled all of these agreements, which were designated as cash flow hedges, for a gain of $9.0 million simultaneous with the issuance of the notes at an all-in effective fixed rate of 3.30% on the full $250 million of debt. The gain on these agreements is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and will be amortized to reduce interest expense over the life of the notes. Hedge ineffectiveness of these agreements was not material.

See notes 6 and 7 of the financial statements for further details of these transactions.

Credit and Capital Markets – Global credit and capital markets continued to improve in 2013. The following summarizes the more significant impacts of credit and capital markets on our business:

CREDIT FACILITIES – Cash flows from operating activities are our primary source of liquidity for funding growth, dividends and capital expenditures. For 2013, 2012 and the first half of 2011, we also used this cash to make share repurchases. In the second half of 2011, we used operating cash flow to help fund our 2011 acquisitions of Kamis, Kohinoor and Kitchen Basics. We also rely on our revolving credit facility, or borrowings backed by this facility, to fund seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate requirements. 

Our major revolving credit facility has a total committed capacity of $600 million, which expires in 2016. We generally use this facility to support our issuance of commercial paper. If the commercial paper market is not available or viable, we could borrow directly under our revolving credit facility. The facility is made available by a syndicate of banks, with various commitments per bank. If any of the banks in this syndicate are unable to perform on their commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could reduce our ability to grow through funding of seasonal working capital. In addition to our committed revolving credit facility, we have uncommitted credit facilities for $125.4 million as of November 30, 2013. We engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our credit facilities. During these communications, none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. In addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions and other aspects of the relationships. Based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe our banks will perform on their commitments. See also note 6 of the financial statements for more details on our financing arrangements. We believe that our internally generated funds and the existing sources of liquidity under our credit facilities are sufficient to fund ongoing operations.

PENSION ASSETS – We hold investments in equity and debt securities in both our qualified defined benefit pension plans and through a rabbi trust for our nonqualified defined benefit pension plan. Cash payments to pension plans, including unfunded plans, were $42.7 million in 2013, $104.3 million in 2012 and $42.7 million in 2011. Our cash contributions in 2012 include a $35 million contribution made late in the fiscal year to bring the pension plan's funding status within company guidelines. It is expected that the 2014 total pension plan contributions will be approximately $16 million primarily for international plans. Future increases or decreases in pension liabilities and required cash contributions are highly dependent on changes in interest rates and the actual return on plan assets. We base our investment of plan assets, in part, on the duration of each plan’s liabilities. Across all plans, approximately 66% of assets are invested in equities, 29% in fixed income investments and 5% in other investments. See also note 9 of the financial statements, which provides details on our pension funding.

CUSTOMERS AND COUNTERPARTIES – See the subsequent section of this discussion under Market Risk Sensitivity–Credit Risk.

ACQUISITIONS

Acquisitions are part of our strategy to increase sales and profits. We have a particular interest in emerging markets.

In 2013, we purchased the assets of Wuhan Asia-Pacific Condiments Co. Ltd. (WAPC), a privately held company based in China, for $144.8 million, which included $142.3 million of cash paid, net of closing adjustments, and the assumption of $2.5 million of liabilities. The acquisition was financed with a combination of cash and debt. WAPC, included in our consumer business segment, manufactures and markets DaQiao and ChuShiLe® brand bouillon products, which have a leading position in the central region of China. 

In 2011, we purchased the assets of Kitchen Basics, Inc., based in the U.S., for $40 million and the shares of Kamis S.A., based in Poland, for $287 million. Both acquisitions are consumer businesses and were financed with a combination of cash and debt. We also completed a joint venture with Kohinoor Foods Ltd. in India, investing $113 million for an 85% interest in Kohinoor Speciality Foods India Private Limited. This was financed with a combination of cash and debt. This joint venture is consolidated and included in our consumer business segment. 

See note 2 of the financial statements for further details of these acquisitions.

PERFORMANCE GRAPH—SHAREHOLDER RETURN

Below is a line graph comparing the yearly change in McCormick’s cumulative total shareholder return (stock price appreciation plus reinvestment of dividends) on McCormick’s Non-Voting Common Stock with (1) the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Price Index, assuming reinvestment of dividends, and (2) the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s Packaged Foods & Meats Index, assuming reinvestment of dividends.

MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY

We utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including foreign exchange and interest rate exposures, which exist as part of our ongoing business operations. We do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instrument. The use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. The information presented below should be read in conjunction with notes 6 and 7 of the financial statements.

Foreign Exchange Risk – We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. Primary exposures include the U.S. dollar versus the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Polish zloty, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi, Indian rupee, Thai baht, Swiss franc and the British pound sterling versus the Euro. We routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage certain of these foreign currency risks.

During 2013, the foreign currency translation component in other comprehensive income was principally related to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our net investments in France, the U.K., Poland, Canada, Australia and India. We did not hedge our net investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates.

The following table summarizes the foreign currency exchange contracts held at November 30, 2013. All contracts are valued in U.S. dollars using year-end 2013 exchange rates and have been designated as hedges of foreign currency transactional exposures, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE CONTRACTS AT NOVEMBER 30, 2013

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have a number of smaller contracts with an aggregate notional value of $8.5 million to purchase or sell other currencies, such as the Swiss franc and the Singapore dollar, as of November 30, 2013. The aggregate fair value of these contracts was $0.1 million at November 30, 2013.

Included in the table above are $96.1 million notional value of contracts that have durations of less than seven days that are used to hedge short-term cash flow funding. Remaining contracts have durations of one to 12 months.

At November 30, 2012, we had foreign currency exchange contracts for the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Thai baht with a notional value of $188.8 million, all of which matured in 2013. The aggregate fair value of these contracts was $(1.0) million at November 30, 2012.

Interest Rate Risk – Our policy is to manage interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. We also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing costs and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The table that follows provides principal cash flows and related interest rates, excluding the effect of interest rate swaps and the amortization of any discounts or fees, by fiscal year of maturity at November 30, 2013 and 2012. For foreign currency-denominated debt, the information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents. Variable interest rates are based on the weighted-average rates of the portfolio at the end of the year presented.

YEAR OF MATURITY AT NOVEMBER 30, 2013

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table above displays the debt by the terms of the original debt instrument without consideration of fair value, interest rate swaps and any loan discounts or origination fees. Interest rate swaps have the following effects. The fixed interest rate on $100 million of the 5.20% notes due in 2015 is effectively converted to a variable rate by interest rate swaps through 2015. Net interest payments are based on 3 month LIBOR minus 0.05% during this period. We issued $250 million of 5.75% notes due in 2017 in December 2007. Forward treasury lock agreements of $150 million were settled upon the issuance of these notes and effectively fixed the interest rate on the full $250 million of notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 6.25%. We issued $250 million of 3.90% notes due in 2021 in July 2011. Forward treasury lock agreements of $200 million were settled upon the issuance of these notes and effectively fixed the interest rate on the full $250 million of notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 4.01%. We issued $250 million of 3.50% notes due in 2023 in August 2013. Forward treasury lock agreements of $175 million were settled upon the issuance of these notes and effectively fixed the interest rate on the full $250 million of notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 3.30%.

Commodity Risk – We purchase certain raw materials which are subject to price volatility caused by weather, market conditions, growing and harvesting conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. In 2013, our most significant raw materials were pepper, dairy products, rice, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), onion, garlic and soybean oil. While future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we respond to this volatility in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. We generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. To the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business.

Credit Risk – The customers of our consumer business are predominantly food retailers and food wholesalers. Consolidations in these industries have created larger customers. In addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels including mass merchandisers, dollar stores, warehouse clubs and discount chains. This has caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. Some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. We continue to closely monitor the credit worthiness of our customers and counterparties. We feel that the allowance for doubtful accounts properly recognizes trade receivables at realizable value. We consider nonperformance credit risk for other financial instruments to be insignificant.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS

The following table reflects a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of November 30, 2013:

CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS DUE BY YEAR

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Raw material purchase obligations outstanding as of year-end may not be indicative of outstanding obligations throughout the year due to our response to varying raw material cycles.

(b)Other purchase obligations primarily consist of advertising media commitments and electricity contracts.

Pension and postretirement funding can vary significantly each year due to changes in legislation, our significant assumptions and investment return on plan assets. As a result, we have not presented pension and postretirement funding in the table above.

COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS EXPIRATION BY YEAR

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We had no off-balance sheet arrangements as of November 30, 2013 and 2012.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

New accounting pronouncements are issued periodically that affect our current and future operations. See note 1 of the financial statements for further details of these impacts.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS

In preparing the financial statements, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. These estimates can also affect supplemental information disclosed by us, including information about contingencies, risk and financial condition. We believe, given current facts and circumstances, our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, adhere to U.S. GAAP and are consistently applied. Inherent in the nature of an estimate or assumption is the fact that actual results may differ from estimates, and estimates may vary as new facts and circumstances arise. In preparing the financial statements, we make routine estimates and judgments in determining the net realizable value of accounts receivable, inventory, fixed assets and prepaid allowances. Our most critical accounting estimates and assumptions are in the following areas:

Customer Contracts

In several of our major geographic markets, the consumer business sells our products by entering into annual or multi-year customer contracts. These contracts include provisions for items such as sales discounts, marketing allowances and performance incentives. These items are expensed based on certain estimated criteria such as sales volume of indirect customers, customers reaching anticipated volume thresholds and marketing spending. We routinely review these criteria and make adjustments as facts and circumstances change.

Goodwill and Intangible Asset Valuation

We review the carrying value of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets and conduct tests of impairment on an annual basis as described below. We also test for impairment if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. We test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite-lived purchased intangible asset is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, assumed royalty rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates.

Goodwill Impairment

Our reporting units are the same as our operating segments. We calculate fair value of a reporting unit by using a discounted cash flow model. Our discounted cash flow model calculates fair value by present valuing future expected cash flows of our reporting units using our internal cost of capital as the discount rate. We then compare this fair value to the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including intangible assets and goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the calculated fair value, then we would determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. An impairment charge would be recognized to the extent the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value. As of November 30, 2013, we had $1,798.5 million of goodwill recorded in our balance sheet ($1,654.7 million in the consumer segment and $143.8 million in the industrial segment). Our testing indicates that the current fair values of our reporting units are significantly in excess of carrying values. Accordingly we believe that only significant changes in the cash flow assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill.

Indefinite-lived Intangible Asset Impairment

Our indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of brand names and trademarks. We calculate fair value by using a discounted cash flow model or relief-from-royalty method and then compare that to the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. As of November 30, 2013, we had $269.7 million of brand name assets and trademarks recorded in our balance sheet and none of the balances exceed their estimated fair values. We intend to continue to support our brand names.

Below is a table which outlines the book value of our major brand names and trademarks as of November 30, 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Taxes

We estimate income taxes and file tax returns in each of the taxing jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to file a tax return. At the end of each year, an estimate for income taxes is recorded in the financial statements. Tax returns are generally filed in the third or fourth quarter of the subsequent year. A reconciliation of the estimate to the final tax return is done at that time which will result in changes to the original estimate. We believe that our tax return positions are fully supported, but tax authorities may challenge certain positions. We evaluate our uncertain tax positions in accordance with the U.S. GAAP guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. We believe that our reserve for uncertain tax positions, including related interest, is adequate. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and, therefore, could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. Management has recorded valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In doing so, management has considered future taxable income and tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Both future taxable income and tax planning strategies include a number of estimates.

Pension and Postretirement Benefits

Pension and other postretirement plans’ costs require the use of assumptions for discount rates, investment returns, projected salary increases, mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. The actuarial assumptions used in our pension and postretirement benefit reporting are reviewed annually and compared with external benchmarks to ensure that they appropriately account for our future pension and postretirement benefit obligations. While we believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, differences between assumed and actual experience may affect our operating results. A 1% increase or decrease in the actuarial assumption for the discount rate would impact 2014 pension and postretirement benefit expense by approximately $15 million. A 1% increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would impact 2014 pension expense by approximately $8 million. In addition, see the preceding sections of MD&A and note 9 of the financial statements for a discussion of these assumptions and the effects on the financial statements.

Stock-Based Compensation

We estimate the fair value of our stock-based compensation using fair value pricing models which require the use of significant assumptions for expected volatility of stock, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. Our valuation methodology and significant assumptions used are disclosed in note 10 of the financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK