PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.  

Overview  

UAL Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “UAL”), a holding company whose principal subsidiary is United Air Lines, Inc. (together with its primary subsidiaries, “United”), was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968. We sometimes use the words “we,” “our,” “us,” and the “Company” in this Form 10-K for disclosures that relate to both UAL and United. Our world headquarters is located at 77 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60601. The mailing address is P.O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois 60666 (telephone number (312) 997-8000).  

This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report of UAL and United including their respective consolidated financial statements (the “Financial Statements”). As UAL consolidates United for financial statement purposes, disclosures that relate to activities of United also apply to UAL, unless otherwise noted, and are included within the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (the “Footnotes”). Most of UAL’s revenue and expenses in 2009 were from United’s airline operations. United transports people and cargo through its Mainline operations, which utilize full-sized jet aircraft exceeding 70 seats in size, and its regional operations, which utilize smaller aircraft not exceeding 70 seats in size that are operated under contract by United Express® carriers.  

The Company’s web address is www.united.com. The information contained on or connected to the Company’s web address is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Through this website, the Company’s filings with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are accessible without charge as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

United operates approximately 3,300 flights a day on United Mainline and United Express to more than 230 U.S. domestic and international destinations from its hubs at Chicago O’Hare International Airport (“O’Hare”), Denver International Airport (“Denver”), Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”), San Francisco International Airport (“SFO”) and Washington Dulles International Airport (“Washington Dulles”), based on its annual flight schedule as of January 1, 2010. With key global air rights in the Pacific region, Europe and Latin America, United is one of the largest international carriers based in the United States. United also is a founding member of Star Alliance, the world’s largest airline network, which provides connections for its customers to approximately 1,100 destinations in 175 countries worldwide. United offers a unique set of services to target distinct customer groups. This strategy of market and product segmentation is intended to optimize margins and costs, and is focused on delivering an improved experience for all customers and a best-in-class experience for premium customers. These services include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

3  

Table of Contents 

   •    A new international premium travel experience featuring 180-degree, lie-flat beds in first and business class. The Company has completed first and business class equipment upgrades on 45 international aircraft that have been refitted with new premium seats, entertainment systems and other product enhancements. The Company expects to complete the remaining aircraft upgrades between 2010 and 2012;  

   •    p.s.SM—a premium transcontinental service connecting New York with both Los Angeles and San Francisco; and  

   •    United Express, with a total fleet of 292 aircraft operated by regional airline partners, including approximately 150 aircraft that offer explusSM service, United’s premium regional service providing both United First and Economy Plus seating.  

The Company also generates revenue through its Mileage Plus® Frequent Flyer Program (“Mileage Plus”), United Cargo SM and United Services. Mileage Plus, which helps the Company attract and retain high-value customers, contributed approximately $774 million to passenger and other revenue in 2009. United Cargo generated $536 million in freight and mail revenue in 2009. United Services generated $134 million in revenue in 2009 by utilizing downtime of otherwise under-utilized aircraft maintenance resources through providing third-party maintenance services.  

The Company characterizes its business approach as “Focus on Five,” which refers to a comprehensive set of priorities that focuses on the fundamentals of running a good airline: one that runs on time, with clean planes and courteous employees, delivers industry-leading revenues and competitive costs, and does so safely. The goal of this approach is to enable United to achieve best-in-class safety performance, exceptional customer satisfaction and experience and industry-leading margin and cash flow. Building on this foundation, United aims to regain its position in key metrics reported by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) as well as higher revenue driven by services, schedules and routes that are valued by the Company’s customers.  

Operations  

Segments. The Company operates its businesses through two reporting segments: Mainline and Regional Affiliates (United Express operations). The Company manages its business as an integrated network with assets deployed across its Mainline and regional carrier networks. This focus seeks to maximize the profitability of the overall airline network. Financial information on the Company’s reporting segments and operating revenues by geographic regions, as reported to the DOT, can be found in Note 9, “Segment Information,” in the Footnotes.  

Mainline. The Company’s Mainline operating revenues were $13.3 billion, $17.1 billion and $17.0 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, Mainline domestic operations served approximately 80 destinations primarily throughout the U.S. and Canada and operated hubs at O’Hare, Denver, LAX, SFO and Washington Dulles. Mainline international operations serve the Pacific, Atlantic and Latin America regions. The Pacific region includes non-stop service to Beijing, Hong Kong, Osaka, Seoul, Shanghai, Sydney and Tokyo and direct service to Bangkok, Beijing (seasonal), Seoul, Singapore and Taipei via Tokyo; direct service to Ho Chi Minh City and Singapore via Hong Kong and to Melbourne via Sydney. The Atlantic region includes non-stop service to Amsterdam, Brussels, Dubai, Frankfurt, Geneva, Kuwait City, London, Moscow, Munich, Paris, Rome and Zurich and, commencing in April 2010, direct service to Bahrain through Kuwait City. The Latin American region offers non-stop service to Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro (seasonal) and Sao Paulo and direct service to Rio de Janeiro via Sao Paulo. The Latin American region also serves various Mexico destinations including Cancun, Cozumel (seasonal), Mexico City, Puerto Vallarta and San Jose del Cabo; various Caribbean points including Aruba and seasonal service to Montego Bay, Punta Cana, and St. Maarten; and Central America including Liberia, Costa Rica (seasonal). United will fly to the African continent commencing in the second quarter of 2010, serving Accra, Ghana, and plans to add service to Lagos, Nigeria, pending governmental approvals.  

4  

Table of Contents 

UAL’s operating revenues attributed to Mainline domestic operations were $7.7 billion, $9.7 billion and $10.9 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operating revenues attributed to Mainline international operations were $5.6 billion, $7.4 billion and $6.1 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For purposes of the Company’s geographic revenue reporting, the Company considers destinations in Mexico and the Caribbean to be part of the Latin America region as opposed to the Domestic region.  

The Mainline segment operated 360 aircraft as of December 31, 2009, and produced 122.7 billion available seat miles (“ASMs”) and 100.5 billion revenue passenger miles (“RPMs”) during 2009; in 2008, the Mainline segment produced 135.8 billion ASMs and 110.1 billion RPMs.  

Regional Affiliates. Regional Affiliates operating revenues were approximately $3.1 billion in years 2009, 2008 and 2007. United has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as United Express. United Express is an extension of the United Mainline network. Atlantic Southeast Airlines, Colgan Airlines, ExpressJet, GoJet Airlines, Mesa Airlines (“Mesa”), Shuttle America, SkyWest Airlines (“SkyWest”) and Trans States Airlines are all regional carriers, most of which operate under capacity purchase agreements with United. Under these agreements, United pays the regional carriers contractually-agreed fees (carrier-controlled costs) for operating these flights plus a variable reimbursement (incentive payment) based on agreed performance metrics. The carrier-controlled costs are based on specific rates for various operating expenses of the regional carriers, such as crew expenses, maintenance and aircraft ownership, some of which are multiplied by specific operating statistics (e.g., block hours, departures) while others are fixed monthly amounts. The incentive payment is a markup applied to the carrier-controlled costs for superior operational performance. Under these capacity purchase agreements, United is responsible for all fuel costs incurred as well as landing fees, facilities rent and deicing costs, which are passed through without any markup. In return, the regional carriers operate this capacity on schedules determined by United. United also determines pricing, revenues and inventory levels and assumes the inventory and distribution risk for the available seats. In January 2010, Mesa filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization. The Company does not expect this filing to have any material effect on its Regional Affiliates flight operations, financial position or results of operations.  

The capacity purchase agreements between the regional carriers and United do not include the provision of ground handling services. As a result, Regional Affiliates obtain ground handling services from a variety of third-party providers in addition to utilizing internal United resources in some cases. Regional Affiliates carriers operated 292 aircraft under capacity purchase agreements as of December 31, 2009, and produced 18.0 billion ASMs and 13.8 billion RPMs during 2009, while producing 16.2 billion ASMs and 12.1 billion RPMs in 2008.  

While the regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements comprise more than 95% of Regional Affiliates flights, the Company also has limited prorate agreements with Colgan Airlines, SkyWest and Trans States Airlines. Under these prorate agreements, United and its prorate partners agree to divide revenue collected from each passenger according to a formula, while both United and the prorate partners are individually responsible for their own costs of operations. United also collects a program fee from Colgan Airlines to cover certain marketing and distribution costs such as credit card transaction fees, global distribution systems (“GDS”) transaction fees and frequent flyer costs. Unlike capacity purchase agreements, these prorate agreements require the regional carrier to retain the control and risk of scheduling, market selection, seat pricing and inventory for its flights.  

United Cargo. United Cargo offers both domestic and international shipping through a variety of services including United Small Package Delivery, Express and General cargo services. Freight shipments comprise approximately 88% of United Cargo’s volumes, with mail shipments comprising the remainder. During 2009, United Cargo accounted for approximately 3% of the Company’s operating revenues by generating $536 million in freight and mail revenue, a 37% decrease versus 2008.  

United Services. United Services is a global airline support business offering customers comprehensive aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul services which include engine, line and global emergency maintenance  

5  

Table of Contents 

 services. United Services brings nearly 80 years of experience to serve over 100 airline customer contracts worldwide. During 2009 and 2008, United Services generated approximately $134 million and $167 million, respectively, in third-party revenue.  

Fuel. The price and availability of jet fuel significantly affects the Company’s results of operations. Fuel has been one of the Company’s largest operating expenses for the last several years. The Company has a risk management strategy to hedge a portion of its price risk related to projected jet fuel requirements. The Company’s hedging strategy currently utilizes purchased calls and swaps. If fuel prices rise above the fixed swap price, the Company’s counterparties are required to make settlement payments to the Company, while if fuel prices fall below the fixed swap price, the Company is required to make settlement payments to its fuel hedge counterparties. In addition, the Company has been, and may in the future be, required to provide counterparties with cash collateral prior to settlement of the hedge positions.  

Fuel prices were extremely volatile during the three year period ended December 31, 2009, as shown in the table below. In 2009, the Company benefited from a lower average purchase price as compared to the two prior years due to lower market prices for jet fuel. The Company’s operating results in 2008 were adversely impacted by the unprecedented increase in the price of crude oil to a peak of approximately $145 per barrel in July 2008, followed by a decrease of more than $100 per barrel to approximately $45 per barrel in December 2008. This volatility resulted in the Company reporting total fuel hedge losses of approximately $1.1 billion in 2008. A significant portion of these losses was unrealized as of December 31, 2008 and the related contracts were settled in 2009, as shown in the table below. Fuel prices were somewhat less volatile in 2009 and 2007, as compared to 2008, resulting in less significant hedge impacts in these years. Total fuel hedge gains of $135 million and $83 million were reported in 2009 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s results of operations benefit from lower fuel prices on its unhedged fuel consumption and its liquidity is subject to fluctuations based on cash settlements and collateral that may be required.  

The Company accounts for the majority of its fuel derivative contracts as economic hedges, which are marked-to-market with gains and losses classified as fuel expense. Remaining fuel derivative contracts which do not qualify for economic hedge accounting are marked-to-market with gains and losses classified as nonoperating expense. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note 12, “Fair Value Measurements and Derivative Instruments,” in the Footnotes for additional details regarding gains and losses from settled and open positions, cash settlements, unrealized amounts at the end of the period and hedge collateral. Derivative gains and losses from contracts qualifying for economic hedge accounting are recorded in Mainline fuel expense and are not allocated to Regional Affiliates fuel expense.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Regional Affiliates fuel costs are classified as part of Regional Affiliates expense.  

6  

Table of Contents 

To ensure adequate supplies of fuel and to obtain a measure of control over fuel costs, the Company arranges to have fuel shipped on major pipelines and stored close to its major hub locations. Although the Company currently does not anticipate a significant reduction in the availability of jet fuel, a number of factors make predicting fuel prices and fuel availability uncertain, including changes in world energy demand, geopolitical uncertainties affecting energy supplies from oil-producing nations, industrial accidents, threats of terrorism directed at oil supply infrastructure, extreme weather conditions causing temporary shutdowns of production and refining capacity, as well as changes in relative demand for other petroleum products that may impact the quantity and price of jet fuel produced from period to period.  

Alliances. United has a number of bilateral and multilateral alliances with other airlines, which enhance travel options for customers seeking access to markets that United does not serve directly. These marketing alliances typically include one or more of the following features: joint frequent flyer program participation; codesharing of flight operations (whereby seats on one carrier’s selected flights can be marketed under the brand name of another carrier); coordination of reservations, ticketing, passenger check-in, baggage handling and flight schedules; and other resource-sharing activities.  

The most significant of the Company’s alliances is the Star Alliance, a global integrated airline network co-founded by United in 1997 and the most comprehensive airline alliance in the world. As of January 1, 2010, Star Alliance carriers serve approximately 1,100 destinations in 175 countries with over 19,700 daily flights. Current Star Alliance partners, in addition to United, are Adria Airways, Air Canada, Air China, Air New Zealand, All Nippon Airways, Asiana Airlines, the Austrian Airlines Group, Blue1, bmi, Brussels Airlines, Continental Airlines (“Continental”), Croatia Airlines, EgyptAir, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, Scandinavian Airlines, Shanghai Airlines, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, Spanair, Swiss International Air Lines, TAP Portugal, THAI, Turkish Airlines and US Airways. Aegean Airlines, Air India and TAM Airlines have been announced as future Star Alliance members.  

During 2009, Continental joined United and its 24 other partners in the Star Alliance. The alliance partnership between United and Continental allows the two airlines to link their networks and services worldwide to the benefit of customers, employees and shareholders, creating new revenue opportunities, cost savings and other efficiencies. Continental’s and United’s route networks are highly complementary, with little overlap, so they add value to each other and to customers who are planning domestic and international travel. Under codesharing, customers benefit from a coordinated process for reservations/ticketing, check-in, flight connections and baggage transfer. Frequent flyer reciprocity allows members of Continental’s OnePass program and United’s Mileage Plus program to earn miles in their accounts when flying on either partner airline and redeem awards on both carriers. With Continental as a partner, United has added more than 60 new destinations to its alliance network and dramatically enhanced its market presence in New York and Latin America. United and Continental are exploring opportunities to capture important cost savings in the areas of information technology, frequent flyer programs, airport operations, lounges, procurement and sales and marketing.  

In addition, pursuant to antitrust immunity approval by the DOT, United, Air Canada, Continental and Lufthansa are implementing a joint venture covering transatlantic routes that will deliver highly competitive flight schedules, fares and service. The European Commission is conducting a review of the anticipated competitive impact of the joint venture operations. In December 2009, United and Continental applied jointly with All Nippon Airways to the DOT for approval of, and immunity from U.S. antitrust laws for, a series of alliance agreements between and among the carriers, including a transpacific joint venture agreement. A grant of antitrust immunity will enable the three carriers to integrate the services they operate between the United States and Japan, and other destinations in Asia, to derive potentially significant benefits from coordinated scheduling, pricing, sales and inventory management. The integration of services will also allow the three carriers to offer passengers highly competitive flight schedules, fares and services. The approval of the agreements and the DOT’s grant of antitrust immunity, which is currently pending, is a condition precedent to Japan bringing into force the recently announced open skies agreement between Japan and the United States. See Industry Regulation, below.  

7  

Table of Contents 

United also has independent marketing agreements with other air carriers including Aer Lingus, Great Lakes Aviation, Gulfstream International, Hawaiian, Island Air, Qatar Airways, TACA Group and TAM Airlines.  

Mileage Plus. Mileage Plus builds customer loyalty by offering awards and services to frequent travelers. Mileage Plus members can earn mileage credit for flights on United, United Express, members of the Star Alliance and certain other airlines that participate in the program. Miles can also be earned by purchasing the goods and services of our non-airline partners, such as hotels, car rental companies and credit card issuers. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel and non-travel awards. There are more than 56 million members enrolled in Mileage Plus. In 2009, 2.1 million Mileage Plus travel awards were used on United, as compared to 2.3 million and 2.2 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. These amounts represent the number of awards for which travel was provided and not the number of available seats that were allocated to award travel. These awards represented 8.3%, 9.1% and 8.0% of United’s total revenue passenger miles in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, Mileage Plus members redeemed miles for approximately 885,000 non-United travel awards in 2009 as compared to 613,000 in 2008. Non-United travel awards include Red Carpet club memberships, car and hotel awards, merchandise and travel solely on another air carrier, among others. The increase in the number of non-United travel awards redeemed was due to the expansion of the merchandise programs, and the launch of a new car and hotel award program in the fourth quarter of 2009. Total miles redeemed for travel on United in 2009, including class-of-service upgrades, represented 86% of the total miles redeemed (for both completed and future travel). For a detailed description of the accounting treatment of Mileage Plus program activity, see Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Distribution Channels. The majority of United’s airline seat inventory continues to be distributed through the traditional channels of travel agencies and GDS, such as Sabre and Galileo. The growing use of alternative distribution systems, including www.united.com and GDS new entrants, provides United with an opportunity to lower its ticket distribution costs. To encourage customer use of lower-cost channels and capitalize on these cost-saving opportunities, the Company will continue to expand the capabilities of its website.  

Industry Conditions  

Seasonality. The air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, revenues are better in the second and third quarters, which reflect higher travel demand, than the first and fourth quarter revenues, which reflect lower travel demand.  

Economic Conditions. The Company’s costs and revenues are highly correlated to the economic health and growth of the United States and the global markets it serves. The global recession experienced over the past two years has resulted in declines in industry passenger demand, accompanied by a reduction in fare levels. The drop in demand has been higher among business and premium cabin travelers, as corporations have significantly reduced their spending on business travel. As discussed further in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the current economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, negative impacts on passenger demand, revenues, the level of credit card sales activity and our cargo operations. In response to these economic conditions, United and other carriers in the industry implemented significant reductions in domestic and international capacity during 2008 and 2009.  

Domestic Competition. The domestic airline industry is highly competitive and dynamic. In domestic markets, new and existing U.S. carriers are generally free to initiate service between any two points within the United States. United’s competitors consist primarily of other airlines, and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation and emerging technological substitutes such as videoconferencing. Competition can be direct in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route or indirect where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city, or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport.  

8  

Table of Contents 

United’s actual and forecasted capacity increases (decreases) for 2009 and 2010, respectively, as compared to the year-ago periods, are summarized in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Carriers that operate as low cost carriers or that have lower cost structures achieved through reorganization may be more competitive with the rest of the industry, resulting in lower fares for such carriers’ passengers with a potential negative impact on the Company’s revenues. In addition, future airline mergers or acquisitions similar to Delta Airlines’ acquisition of Northwest Airlines in late 2008 may enable airlines to improve their revenue and cost performance relative to peers and thus enhance their competitive position within the industry.  

Domestic pricing decisions are largely affected by the need to be competitive with other U.S. airlines. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Company’s financial results because United often finds it necessary to match competitors’ fares to maintain passenger traffic. Attempts by United and other airlines to raise fares often fail due to a lack of competitive matching.  

International Competition. In United’s international networks, the Company competes not only with U.S. airlines, but also with foreign carriers. Competition on specified international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulations. The United States and European Union (“EU”) agreement in 2008 to reduce restrictions on flight operations between the two regions has increased competition for United’s transatlantic network from both U.S. and European airlines. In our Pacific operations, competition is expected to increase as the governments of the United States and China recently approved additional U.S. and Chinese airlines to fly new routes between the two countries, although the commencement of some new services to China has been postponed due to the weak global economy. Competition in the Pacific may likely increase when the recently announced open skies agreement between the United States and Japan becomes effective, which is currently expected to be in the fall of 2010, subject to certain conditions precedent being met. See Industry Regulation, below. Competition in the Pacific may also increase if Japan Airlines, which filed for bankruptcy in January 2010, emerges from restructuring as a stronger competitor in the region. Part of United’s ability to successfully compete with non-U.S. carriers on international routes is its ability to generate traffic from and to the entire U.S. via its integrated domestic route network. Foreign carriers are currently prohibited by U.S. law from carrying local passengers between two points in the U.S. and United experiences comparable restrictions in many foreign countries. In addition, U.S. carriers are often constrained from carrying passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities due to limitations in air service agreements and restrictions imposed unilaterally by foreign governments. To compensate for these structural limitations, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into alliances and marketing arrangements that allow these carriers to exchange traffic between each other’s flights and route networks. See Alliances, above, for further information.  

Insurance. United carries hull and liability insurance of a type customary in the air transportation industry, in amounts that the Company deems appropriate, covering passenger liability, public liability and damage to United’s aircraft and other physical property. United also maintains other types of insurance such as property, directors and officers, cargo, workers’ compensation, automobile and the like, with limits and deductibles that are standard within the industry. Losses that materially exceed these limits could have a significant impact on the Company. After the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the Company’s insurance premiums increased significantly but have since been reduced reflecting the market’s changing perception of risk, as well as the Company’s ongoing capacity reductions. Additionally, after September 11, 2001, commercial insurers canceled United’s liability insurance for losses resulting from war and associated perils (terrorism, sabotage, hijacking and other similar events). The U.S. government subsequently agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for  

9  

Table of Contents 

 U.S. airlines and has renewed this coverage on a periodic basis. The current war-risk policy is effective until August 31, 2010 and covers losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government does not extend this coverage beyond August 31, 2010, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. See “Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the Company’s operations and financial results” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, below. 

Industry Regulation  

Domestic Regulation.  

General. All carriers engaged in air transportation in the U.S. are subject to regulation by the DOT. Among its responsibilities, the DOT issues certificates of public convenience and necessity for domestic air transportation (no air carrier, unless exempted, may provide air transportation without a DOT certificate of public convenience and necessity), grants international route authorities, approves international codeshare agreements, regulates methods of competition and enforces certain consumer protection regulations, such as those dealing with advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability.  

Airlines also are regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), a division of the DOT, primarily in the areas of flight operations, maintenance and other safety and technical matters. The FAA has authority to issue air carrier operating certificates and aircraft airworthiness certificates, prescribe maintenance procedures and regulate pilot and other employee training, among other responsibilities. From time to time, the FAA issues rules that require air carriers to take certain actions, such as the inspection or modification of aircraft and other equipment, that may cause the Company to incur substantial, unplanned expenses. The airline industry is also subject to various other federal laws and regulations. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) has jurisdiction over virtually all aspects of civil aviation security. See Legislation, below. The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has jurisdiction over certain airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail. Labor relations in the airline industry are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act (“RLA”). The Company is also subject to inquiries by the DOT, FAA and other U.S. and international regulatory bodies.  

Airport Access. Access to landing and take-off rights, or “slots,” at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by United are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. Domestic slot restrictions currently apply at Reagan National Airport in Washington D.C. (“Washington Reagan”), John F. Kennedy International Airport and LaGuardia Airport (“LaGuardia”), both in New York, and Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey.  

In December 2009, the DOT issued a new rule intended to enhance air passenger protections. The new rule, which goes into effect in April 2010, creates new areas of regulation in passenger protection, including a requirement that certain carriers, including United, adopt contingency plans for lengthy tarmac delays at most U.S. airports. A carrier’s failure to meet certain service performance criteria under the rule could subject it to substantial civil penalties.  

Legislation. The airline industry is also subject to legislative activity that may have an impact on operations and costs. Specifically, the law that authorizes federal excise taxes and fees assessed on airline tickets expired in September 2007 but has been extended multiple times and has most recently been extended until March 31, 2010. In addition to federal, state and local taxes and fees that the Company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending that may increase the Company’s operating costs if imposed on the Company. Congress is currently attempting to pass comprehensive reauthorization legislation to impose a new funding structure and make other changes to FAA operations. Past aviation reauthorization bills have affected a wide range of areas of interest to the industry, including air traffic control operations, capacity control issues, airline competition issues, aircraft and airport technology requirements, safety issues, taxes, fees and other funding sources. Congress may also pass other legislation that could increase labor and operating costs. Climate change  

10  

Table of Contents 

 legislation, which would regulate greenhouse gas emissions, is also likely to be a significant area of legislative and regulatory focus and could adversely impact fuel costs. See Environmental Regulation, below.  

Customer service issues have remained active areas for both Congress and DOT regulators during 2009. In addition to DOT customer service regulations discussed above, additional regulations or legislation imposing more specific customer service requirements are likely to be approved in 2010, though what those requirements might be is unclear at this time. The DOT has also proceeded with other regulatory changes in this area, including proposals regarding treatment of and payments to passengers involuntarily denied boarding, domestic baggage liability and airline scheduling practices. Additionally, since September 11, 2001, aviation security has been and continues to be a subject of frequent legislative and regulatory action, requiring changes to the Company’s security processes and frequently increasing the cost of its security procedures.  

International Regulation.  

General. International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. In connection with United’s international services, the Company is regulated by both the U.S. government and the governments of the foreign countries United serves. In addition, the availability of international routes to U.S. carriers is regulated by aviation agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments, and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments.  

Airport Access. Historically, access to foreign markets has been tightly controlled through bilateral agreements between the U.S. and each foreign country involved. These agreements regulate the markets served, the number of carriers allowed to serve each market and the frequency of carriers’ flights. Since the early 1990s, the U.S. has pursued a policy of “open skies” (meaning all carriers have access to the destination), under which the U.S. government has negotiated a number of bilateral agreements allowing unrestricted access between U.S. and foreign markets. Currently, there are more than 90 open skies agreements in effect. Additionally, all of the airports that United serves in Europe and Asia maintain slot controls, and many of these are restrictive due to congestion at these airports. London Heathrow, Frankfurt and Tokyo Narita are among the most restrictive airports due to capacity limitations. United has significant operations at these locations.  

United’s ability to serve some foreign markets and expand into certain others is limited by the absence altogether of aviation agreements between the U.S. government and the relevant governments. Shifts in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies may lead to the alteration or termination of air service agreements. Depending on the nature of any such change, the value of United’s international route authorities and slot rights may be materially enhanced or diminished.  

The U.S./EU open skies agreement became effective in 2008. This agreement replaced the bilateral arrangements between the U.S. government and the 27 EU member states. Based on the U.S. open skies model, it provides U.S. and EU carriers with expansive rights that have increased competition in transatlantic markets. For example, U.S. and EU carriers now have the right to operate between any point in the United States and the EU. The agreement has no direct impact on airport slot rights nor does it provide for a reallocation of existing slots, including those at London Heathrow. London Heathrow currently remains subject to both slot and facility constraints. The agreement provides United with additional commercial opportunities since it triggered the effectiveness of the DOT’s grant of anti-trust immunity to United and British carrier bmi, creating increased cooperation between the two carriers in the transatlantic market. Because of the diverse nature of potential impacts on United’s business, however, the overall future impact of the U.S./EU agreement on United’s business cannot be predicted with certainty.  

Also in 2008, the EU adopted interpretive guidance and legislation that impacts the Company. The Commission officially sanctioned secondary slot trading, a current practice among carriers that involves the sale, purchase or lease of slots. This action resolves disputes about the legality of slot exchanges at EU airports including London Heathrow.  

11  

Table of Contents 

In December 2009, the United States and Japan reached agreement on the text of an open skies agreement to replace the 1952 bilateral agreement on air service between the United States and Japan. The open skies agreement is expected to enter into force in the fall of 2010, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions precedent. Pursuant to the agreement, any U.S. or Japanese carrier will be able to fly between any point in the United States and any point in Japan and, in the case of U.S. carriers, beyond Japan to points in other countries the carrier is authorized to serve. The agreement will also eliminate the restrictions on the number of frequencies carriers can operate, and require governments in both the United States and Japan to concur before taking action to regulate a carrier’s fares or rates.  

Also in December 2009, United and Continental applied jointly with All Nippon Airways to the DOT for approval of, and immunity from U.S. antitrust laws for, a series of alliance agreements between and among the carriers, including a transpacific joint venture agreement. This application is currently pending. See Alliances, above, for additional information.  

Environmental Regulation.  

The airline industry is subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. New regulations surrounding the emission of greenhouse gases (such as carbon dioxide) have been adopted and are otherwise being considered for promulgation both internationally and within the United States (which is discussed further below). United is carefully evaluating the impact of such new and proposed regulations. Other areas of developing and/or new regulations include the State of California rule-makings regarding air emissions from ground support equipment and federal rule-makings concerning the discharge of deicing fluid and the regulation of aircraft drinking water supplies.  

Future environmental regulatory developments, such as in regard to climate change, in the United States and abroad, could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. Some climate change laws and regulations that have gone into effect apply to United, including environmental taxes for certain international flights (including the United Kingdom’s Air Passenger Duty), limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements and land-based planning laws which could apply to airports and could affect airlines in certain circumstances. In addition, a 2009 EU Directive required EU member countries to enact legislation that would include aviation within the EU’s existing carbon emissions trading scheme, effective in 2012. The legality of applying such a scheme to non-EU airlines has been widely questioned. In December 2009, the Air Transportation Association, joined by United, Continental and American Airlines, filed a lawsuit in the United Kingdom challenging regulations that transpose into UK law the EU emissions trading scheme as applied to U.S. carriers. In addition, non-EU countries are considering filing a formal challenge before the United Nations’ International Civil Aviation Organization with respect to the EU’s inclusion of non-EU carriers. It is not clear whether the trading scheme will withstand such challenges. If the scheme is found to be valid, however, it could significantly increase the cost of carriers operating in the EU (by requiring the purchase of carbon credits), although the precise cost to United is difficult to calculate with certainty due to a number of variables and will depend, among other things, on United’s carbon emissions from flights to and from the EU and the price of carbon credits. The precise nature of any such requirements and their applicability to United are difficult to predict, but the impact to the Company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits.  

The airline industry is also subject to other environmental laws and regulations, including those that require the Company to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives. Compliance with all environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures. Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as “Superfund,” and similar environmental cleanup laws, generators of waste materials and owners or operators of facilities, can be subject to liability for  

12  

Table of Contents 

 investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. The Company also conducts voluntary environmental assessment and remediation actions. Environmental cleanup obligations can arise from, among other circumstances, the operation of aircraft fueling facilities and primarily involve airport sites. Future costs associated with these activities are currently not expected to have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2009, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 47,000 active employees, of whom approximately 82% were represented by various U.S. labor organizations. The employee groups, number of employees and labor organization for each of United’s collective bargaining groups were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, Association of Flight Attendants—Communication Workers of America, Air Line Pilots Association, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers and Professional Airline Flight Control Association.  

Collective bargaining agreements are negotiated under the RLA, which governs labor relations in the air transportation industry, and such agreements typically do not contain an expiration date. Instead, they specify an amendable date, upon which the contract is considered “open for amendment.” Contracts remain in effect while new agreements are negotiated. During the negotiation period, both the Company and the negotiating union are required to maintain the status quo.  

During the second quarter of 2009, the Company began negotiations with its labor unions as all of United’s domestic labor contracts became amendable during January 2010. Consistent with its contractual commitments, United served “Section 6” notices to all six of its labor unions in April 2009 to commence the collective bargaining process. In August 2009, United filed for mediation assistance in conjunction with three of its six unions–the Air Line Pilots Association (“ALPA”), Association of Flight Attendants–Communication Workers of America (“AFA”) and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (“IAM”). In January 2010, the Company also filed for mediation assistance in conjunction with another of its unions, Professional Airline Flight Control Association (“PAFCA”). These filings were consistent with commitments contained in current labor contracts which provided that the parties would jointly invoke the mediation services of the National Mediation Board (“NMB”) in the event agreements had not been reached by August 1, 2009. While the labor contract with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (the “Teamsters”) also contemplates filing for mediation, the parties have agreed to continue in direct negotiations. The current contract with the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers (“IFPTE”) does not contemplate filing for mediation. The outcome of these negotiations may materially impact the Company’s future financial results. However, it is too early in the process to assess the timing or magnitude of the impact, if any.  

13  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.