ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.  

The following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the Company’s business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the Company or its representatives make from time to time. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report.  

Risks Related to the Company’s Business  

The Amended Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes impose certain operating and financial restrictions on the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company may be unable to continue to comply with the covenants in these and other agreements, which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under the Amended Credit Facility or the indentures governing the Senior Notes, as applicable, thereby materially and adversely affecting the Company’s liquidity.  

The Company’s Amended and Restated Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of February 2, 2007 (the “Amended Credit Facility”), and the Company’s indentures governing the 9.875% Senior Secured Notes due 2013 and 12.0% Senior Second Lien Notes due 2013 (together, the “Senior Notes”) impose certain operating and financial covenants on the Company and its subsidiaries.  

Among other covenants, the terms of the Amended Credit Facility require the Company to maintain:  

   •    a minimum unrestricted cash balance (as defined in the Amended Credit Facility) of $1.0 billion at any time;  

   •    a minimum ratio of collateral value to debt obligations, as of certain reference periods, subject to certain exceptions; and  

   •    a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, as determined below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Amended Credit Facility fixed charge coverage ratio is calculated as EBITDAR to the sum of the following fixed charges for such period: (a) cash interest expense and (b) cash aircraft operating rental expense. EBITDAR represents earnings before interest expense net of interest income, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, aircraft rent and certain cash and non-cash charges as further defined by the Amended Credit Facility. The other adjustments to EBITDAR include items such as foreign currency transaction losses, increases in our deferred revenue obligation, share-based compensation expense, non-recurring or unusual losses, any non-cash non-recurring charge or non-cash restructuring charge, a limited amount of cash restructuring charges, certain cash transaction costs incurred with financing activities and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.  

Among other covenants, the indentures governing the Senior Notes contain covenants related to the collateral, including covenants requiring United, subject to certain exceptions, to maintain ownership of the collateral and to calculate the priority lien debt value ratio or secured debt value ratio, as applicable, and to maintain a minimum priority lien debt value ratio or minimum secured debt value ratio, as applicable, as of  

14  

Table of Contents 

 certain reference periods. If the value of the Company’s collateral underlying the Senior Notes declines, the Company may be required to provide the debtholders with additional collateral in order to avoid a default and a subsequent acceleration of the applicable debt obligations.  

The Company’s ability to comply with the covenants in the Amended Credit Facility or the indentures governing the Senior Notes may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment and the level of fuel costs, and it may be required to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing. The Company cannot provide assurance that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to the Company.  

A breach of certain of the covenants or restrictions contained in the Company’s Amended Credit Facility or indentures governing the Senior Notes could result in a default. The Amended Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes contain a cross-default provision with respect to final judgments that exceed $50 million and $70 million, respectively. In addition, the indentures governing the Senior Notes contain a cross-default provision where a default resulting in the acceleration of indebtedness under the Amended Credit Facility could result in a default under the indentures. A default under the agreements could allow the Company’s debtholders to accelerate repayment of the obligations in these agreements and/or to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. If the Company’s debt is accelerated, its assets may not be sufficient to repay the obligations in the Amended Credit Facility and the Senior Notes.  

The Company may be unable to continue to comply with certain covenants in agreements with financial institutions that process customer credit card transactions, which, if not complied with, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s liquidity.  

The Company has agreements with financial institutions that process customer credit card transactions for the sale of air travel and other services. Under certain of the Company’s card processing agreements, the financial institutions either require, or have the right to require, that United maintain a reserve equal to a portion of advance ticket sales that have been processed by that financial institution, but for which the Company has not yet provided the air transportation (referred to as “relevant advance ticket sales”). As of December 31, 2009, the Company had total advance ticket sales of approximately $1.5 billion, of which approximately 80% related to credit card sales.  

The Company’s credit card processing agreement with Paymentech and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. contains a cash reserve requirement. In addition to certain other risk protections provided to the processor, the amount of any such cash reserve will be determined based on the amount of unrestricted cash held by the Company as defined under the Amended Credit Facility. If the Company’s unrestricted cash balance is at or more than $2.5 billion as of any calendar month-end measurement date, its required reserve will remain at $25 million. However, if the Company’s unrestricted cash is less than $2.5 billion, its required reserve will increase to a percentage of relevant advance ticket sales as summarized in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Includes unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at month-end, including certain cash amounts already held in reserve, as defined by the agreement.  

Based on the Company’s December 31, 2009 unrestricted cash balance, the Company was not required to provide cash collateral above the current $25 million reserve balance.  

15  

Table of Contents 

United entered into a new agreement with American Express on March 1, 2009 with an initial five year term. Under the agreement, in addition to certain other risk protections provided to American Express, the Company will be required to provide reserves based primarily on its unrestricted cash balance and net current exposure as of any calendar month-end measurement date, as summarized in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Includes unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at month-end, including certain cash amounts already held in reserve, as defined by the agreement.  

 (b) Net current exposure equals relevant advance ticket sales less certain exclusions, and as adjusted for specified amounts payable between United and the processor, as further defined by the agreement.  

The agreement with American Express permits the Company to provide certain replacement collateral in lieu of cash collateral, as long as the Company’s unrestricted cash is above $1.35 billion. Such replacement collateral may be pledged for any amount of the required reserve up to the full amount thereof, with the stated value of such collateral determined according to the agreement. Replacement collateral may be comprised of aircraft, slots and routes, real estate or other collateral as agreed between the parties. Based on the Company’s unrestricted cash balance at December 31, 2009, the Company was not required to provide any reserves under this agreement.  

An increase in the future reserve requirements as provided by the terms of either, or both, of the Company’s material card processing agreements could materially reduce the Company’s liquidity.  

The Company may not be able to maintain adequate liquidity.  

While the Company’s cash flows from operations and its available capital have been sufficient to meet its current operating expenses, lease obligations and debt service requirements to date, the Company’s future liquidity could be negatively impacted by many factors including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, declines in passenger and cargo demand associated with the global recession and deterioration of global financial systems, and any of our future commitments for the purchase of aircraft. During 2008 and 2009, the Company experienced reduced demand for its services due to the weak global economy. Decreases in passenger and cargo demand resulting from a weak global economy resulted in both lower passenger volumes and lower ticket fares, which adversely impacted our liquidity and may continue to adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity in 2010. In addition, the Company’s capacity cuts completed in 2008 and 2009 may not be sufficient to address lower demand due to the weak global economy. See the risk factor entitled “Economic and industry conditions constantly change and continued or worsening negative economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations,” below, for further discussion of the adverse impacts of the weak economy on our operations.  

In addition, fuel prices continue to be extremely volatile which may negatively impact the Company’s liquidity in the future. Certain of the Company’s fuel hedges require that it post cash collateral with applicable counterparties if crude oil prices fall below certain prices. The Company provided cash collateral of $10 million to its fuel derivative counterparties as of December 31, 2009. See Note 12, “Fair Value Measurements and Derivative Instruments,” in the Footnotes.  

The Company’s plans to address increased and volatile fuel prices and the weak global economy may not be successful in improving its results of operations and liquidity. In addition, the implementation of certain of these  

16  

Table of Contents 

 plans requires the use of cash for such items as severance payments, lease termination fees and facility closure costs, among others. These cash requirements will reduce the Company’s available cash for its ongoing operations.  

As described above, the Company is required to comply with certain financial covenants under its Amended Credit Facility, the indentures governing the Senior Notes and certain of its credit card processing agreements. The factors noted above, among other things, may impair the Company’s ability to comply with these covenants or could allow certain of our credit card processors to increase the required reserves on our advance ticket sales, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and liquidity, depending on its ability to obtain a waiver of, or otherwise mitigate, the impact of the default. If a default occurs under our Amended Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes, the cost to cure any such default may adversely impact our financial position and liquidity.  

In addition, the Company’s indebtedness at December 31, 2009 was secured by collateral with a net carrying value of $8.0 billion. As a result, we may have limited remaining assets available as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, which may make it difficult to raise additional capital to meet our liquidity needs. Our level of indebtedness, non-investment grade credit rating and the current market conditions may also make it difficult for us to raise capital to meet liquidity needs and may increase our cost of borrowing. A higher cost of capital could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.  

See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information regarding the Company’s liquidity.  

Economic and industry conditions constantly change and continued or worsening negative economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  

Our business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general economic and industry conditions. Industry-wide passenger air travel varies from year to year. Robust demand for our air transportation services depends largely on favorable general economic conditions, including the strength of the global and local economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit. For leisure travelers, air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that those consumers can eliminate from their spending in difficult economic times. In addition, during periods of poor economic conditions, businesses usually reduce the volume of their business travel, either due to cost-savings initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. The overall demand for air transportation in the United States has decreased due to adverse changes and continued deterioration of the U.S. and global economies, which has negatively impacted our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and may continue to have a significant negative impact on our future results of operations for an extended period of time. While some economic indicators like the GDP are beginning to exhibit growth, other economic indicators that affect air travel such as unemployment have not yet begun to recover and may not do so for an extended period of time. In addition, decreases in cargo revenues due to lower demand have a disproportionate impact on our operating results as our cargo revenues generally have higher margins as compared to our passenger revenues. Continuation or worsening of the current global recession may lead the Company and other carriers to further reduce domestic or international capacity and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, results of operations and liquidity.  

Continued periods of historically high fuel costs or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operating results.  

The Company’s operating results have been, and could continue to be, significantly impacted by changes in the supply or price of aircraft fuel, both of which are impossible to predict. The record-high fuel prices each year from 2005 through 2007 increased further in 2008 to new record highs with the crude oil spot price reaching approximately $145 per barrel in July 2008. At times, United has not been able to increase its fares when fuel  

17  

Table of Contents 

 prices have risen due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry. United may not be able to increase its fares if fuel prices rise in the future and any such increases may not be sustainable in the highly competitive environment. In addition, fare increases may not totally offset the fuel price increase and may also reduce demand for air travel. From time to time, the Company enters into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. The Company’s hedging programs may use significant amounts of cash due to posting of cash collateral in some circumstances, may not be successful in controlling fuel costs and may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. See Note 12, “Fair Value Measurements and Derivative Instruments,” in the Footnotes for additional information on the Company’s hedging programs.  

Additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the Company and the airline industry.  

The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as prospects for the airline industry. Among the effects experienced from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the FAA-imposed temporary grounding of the U.S. airline industry’s fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue per revenue passenger mile (“yield”).  

Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the Company and the airline industry. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and additional international hostilities, including heightened terrorist activity, could also have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The Company’s financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities involving the United States or U.S. interests.  

The airline industry is highly competitive, susceptible to price discounting and may undergo further bankruptcy restructuring or industry consolidation.  

The U.S. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources or lower cost structures than United does, or both. In recent years, the market share held by low-cost carriers has increased significantly. Large network carriers, like United, have often had a lack of pricing power within domestic markets.  

In addition, a number of carriers have filed for bankruptcy protection in recent years. Other domestic and international carriers could restructure in bankruptcy or threaten to do so to reduce their costs. Carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the Company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors.  

During 2008, the U.S. airline industry underwent consolidation with the merger of Delta Airlines and Northwest Airlines. In 2009, regional mainline carriers Midwest Airlines and Frontier Airlines were acquired by Republic Airways, and Frontier Airlines remains a direct competitor of United at its Denver hub. In early 2010, foreign carrier Japan Airlines filed for bankruptcy and began restructuring its business. 

There is ongoing speculation that further airline industry consolidation could occur in the future. United routinely monitors changes in the competitive landscape and engages in analysis and discussions regarding its strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and business combinations. The Company’s strategic alliance with Continental Airlines will not realize all of the benefits of a merger. The Company may have future discussions with other airlines regarding mergers and/or other strategic alternatives. If other airlines participate in merger activity, and United does not, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of United.  

18  

Table of Contents 

United and certain of its competitors implemented significant capacity reductions in 2008 and 2009. The Company’s unit revenues may not be favorably impacted by the capacity reductions and its unit costs may be adversely impacted. Further, certain of the Company’s competitors may not reduce capacity or may increase capacity, thereby diminishing the expected benefit to the Company from capacity reductions.  

Additional security requirements may increase the Company’s costs and decrease its revenues and traffic.  

Since September 11, 2001, the DHS and the Transportation Security Administration have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. In addition, foreign governments have also instituted additional security measures at foreign airports United serves. A substantial portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, increasing the Company’s costs and/or reducing its revenue and traffic. Additional measures taken to enhance either passenger or cargo security procedures and/or to recover associated costs in the future may result in similar adverse effects on United’s results of operations.  

Extensive government regulation could increase the Company’s operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business.  

Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. In addition to the enactment of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. The FAA from time to time also issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures by United. The Company expects to continue incurring material expenses to comply with the regulations of the FAA and other agencies.  

United operates under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT. If the DOT altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked our certificate, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The FAA can also limit United’s airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to such facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business.  

In addition, access to landing and take-off rights, or “slots,” at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by United are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. As passenger travel has continued to increase in recent years, many U.S. and foreign airports have become increasingly congested. Certain of United’s major hubs are among the more congested airports in the United States and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day.  

In addition, the Company’s operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing outdated air traffic control (“ATC”) system utilized by the U.S. government. During peak travel periods in certain markets the current ATC system’s inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies, as discussed above, and has also resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. In addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. Therefore, imposition of these ATC constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to update the ATC system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized ATC system that may be imposed on carriers like United, may have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.  

The Company has been subject to federal, state and local taxes and fees that increase the cost of the Company’s operations. In addition to taxes and fees that the Company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending. If any of these additional taxes and fees were to be imposed on the Company, they would increase the Company’s operating expenses.  

19  

Table of Contents 

Many aspects of United’s operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment. Future environmental regulatory developments, such as in regard to climate change, in the United States and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. Some climate change laws and regulations that have gone into effect apply to United, including environmental taxes for certain international flights (including the United Kingdom’s Air Passenger Duty), limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements and land-based planning laws which could apply to airports and could affect airlines in certain circumstances. Other areas of developing regulations include the State of California rule-making regarding air emissions from ground support equipment and federal rule-makings concerning the discharge of deicing fluid and the regulation of aircraft drinking water supplies. In addition, a 2009 EU Directive required EU member countries to enact legislation that would include aviation within the EU’s existing carbon emissions trading scheme, effective in 2012. The legality of applying such a scheme to non-EU airlines has been widely questioned. In December 2009, the Air Transportation Association, joined by United, Continental and American Airlines, filed a lawsuit in the United Kingdom challenging regulations that transpose into UK law the EU emissions trading scheme as applied to U.S. carriers. In addition, non-EU countries are considering filing a formal challenge before the United Nations’ International Civil Aviation Organization with respect to the EU’s inclusion of non-EU carriers. It is not clear whether the trading scheme would withstand such challenges. If the scheme is found to be valid, however, it could significantly increase the costs of carriers operating in the EU (by requiring the purchase of carbon credits), although the precise cost to United is difficult to calculate with any certainty due to a number of variables, and will depend, among other things, on United’s carbon emissions from flights to and from the EU, and the price of carbon credits. Actions also may be taken in the future by the U.S. government, state governments within the United States, foreign governments, the International Civil Aviation Organization, or by signatory countries through a new global climate change treaty to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. The precise nature of any such requirements and their applicability to United are difficult to predict, but the impact to the Company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits.  

The ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. United currently operates on a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of carriers, capacity or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. If an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. In December 2009, the United States and Japan entered into an open skies agreement, which is currently expected to become effective in the fall of 2010, subject to certain conditions precedent being met. To the extent the open skies agreement results in excess capacity relative to demand, it could negatively impact the value of United’s U.S.-Japan business. For example, as competing carriers will be able to obtain open route rights from United States and Japanese government authorities under the agreement, the value of the Company’s current routes from the United States to Japan and beyond and slots related to these routes could be impaired. In addition, the value of the Company’s business could be negatively impacted if a Japanese air carrier enters into a revenue sharing joint venture alliance agreement with any of our principal competitors in the U.S.-Japan market, which is possible under the open skies agreement.  

The Company’s plans to enter into or expand antitrust immunized joint ventures for various international regions, involving Continental, United and other members of the Star Alliance are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable federal authorities or otherwise satisfying applicable regulatory requirements, and there can be no assurances that such approvals will be granted or applicable regulatory requirements will be satisfied. In December 2009, the Company and Continental applied jointly with All Nippon Airways to the DOT for immunity from U.S. antitrust laws for a series of alliance agreements between and among the carriers, including a transpacific joint venture, which is currently pending approval from the DOT. Other air carriers are also seeking to initiate or expand antitrust immunity for joint ventures which, if approved, may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Further, the Company’s operations in foreign countries are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in those countries. The Company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations.  

The Company’s results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry.  

Due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. The Company’s results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors and general economic conditions. As a result, the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.  

The Company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or our long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its results of operations.  

In accordance with applicable accounting standards, the Company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on October 1 of each year, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. In addition, the Company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred.  

During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company performed impairment tests of certain intangible assets and certain long-lived assets (principally aircraft, related spare engines and spare parts). The interim impairment tests were due to events and changes in circumstances that indicated an impairment might have occurred. The primary factors deemed by management to have collectively constituted a potential impairment triggering event was, in 2009, a significant decrease in actual and forecasted revenues, and in 2008, record high fuel prices, significant losses, a softening U.S. economy, analyst downgrade of UAL common stock, rating agency changes in outlook for the Company’s debt instruments from stable to negative, the announcement of the planned removal from UAL’s fleet of 100 aircraft and a significant decrease in the fair value of the UAL’s outstanding equity and debt securities, including a decline in UAL’s market capitalization to significantly below book value.  

As a result of the impairment testing described above, the Company recorded goodwill and tangible and intangible asset impairment charges of approximately $243 million and $2.6 billion during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company determined that goodwill was completely impaired in 2008. However, as of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $9.8 billion of operating property and equipment and $2.5 billion of intangible assets that could be subject to future impairment charges. The Company may be required to recognize additional impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and the uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. The Company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. The value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. Such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the Company or other carriers. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.  

21  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s initiatives to improve the delivery of its services to its customers, reduce costs, increase its revenues and increase shareholder value, including the operational plans recently implemented by the Company, may not be adequate or successful.  

The Company continues to identify and implement improvement programs to enhance the delivery of its services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase its revenues. In response to the unprecedented increase in fuel prices during 2008 and the weakened U.S. and global economies, the Company has been implementing certain operational plans in line with its “Focus on Five” operating agenda. The Company’s efforts are focused on cost savings in areas such as telecommunications, airport services, catering, maintenance materials, aircraft ground handling and Regional Affiliates expenses, among others. In addition, the Company significantly reduced Mainline domestic and consolidated capacity and removed 100 aircraft from its Mainline fleet, including its entire B737 fleet of 94 aircraft and six B747 aircraft. United eliminated its Ted product and reconfigured that fleet’s 56 A320s to include United First class seats. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information regarding the Company’s capacity reductions. The Company will continue to review the deployment of all of our aircraft in various markets and the overall composition of our fleet to ensure that we are using our assets appropriately to provide the best available return. In connection with the capacity reductions, the Company streamlined its operations and corporate functions in order to match the size of its workforce to the reduced size of its operations. The Company reduced its workforce by approximately 9,000 positions during 2008 and 2009, through a combination of furloughs and furlough-mitigation plans, such as early-out options. There can be no assurance that the Company’s initiatives to reduce costs and increase revenues will be successful.  

The Company is taking additional actions beyond the operational plans discussed above, including increased cost reductions, new revenue sources and other actions. The Company is also reviewing strategic alternatives to maximize the value of its assets and its businesses, which may include a possible sale of all, or part of, these assets or operations. There can be no assurance that any transactions with respect to these assets or operations will occur, nor are there any assurances with respect to the form or timing of any such transactions or their actual effect on shareholder value. A number of the Company’s ongoing initiatives involve significant changes to the Company’s business that it may be unable to implement successfully. In addition, revenue and other initiatives may not be successful due to the competitive landscape of the industry and the reaction of our competitors to certain of our initiatives. The adequacy and ultimate success of the Company’s programs and initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase both its revenues and shareholder value cannot be assured.  

Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect the Company’s operations and impair its financial performance.  

Approximately 82% of the employees of UAL are represented for collective bargaining purposes by U.S. labor unions. These employees are organized into six labor groups represented by six different unions.  

Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the RLA. Under the RLA, a carrier must maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the NMB. This process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement or the parties are released to “self-help” by the NMB. Although in most circumstances the RLA prohibits strikes, shortly after release by the NMB, carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lock-outs. All six of the Company’s U.S. labor agreements became amendable in January 2010 and negotiations between the Company and all labor unions commenced in April 2009. The Company has filed for mediation assistance with respect to the negotiations with four of its six unions and all four unions are now in active mediation. The Company anticipates that the mediation process and the other two ongoing negotiations will continue in 2010. The Company can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of labor negotiations for all amendable agreements will be achieved. There is also a risk that dissatisfied employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slow-downs, work stoppages, partial work stoppages, sick-outs or  

22  

Table of Contents 

 other actions short of a full strike that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and materially impair its financial performance.  

Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the Company’s operations and financial results.   

The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. Accordingly, the Company’s insurance costs increased significantly and its ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. The Company has obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if it had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. Should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected.  

If any of United’s aircraft were to be involved in an accident, the Company could be exposed to significant liability. The insurance it carries to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. If the Company’s insurance (including, but not limited to, aviation, hull and liability insurance and property insurance) is inadequate, it may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident.  

The Company relies heavily on automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure of these systems could harm its business.  

The Company depends on automated systems to operate its business, including its computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com. United’s website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. Substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of United’s services versus its competitors and materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights.  

The Company’s business relies extensively on third-party providers. Failure of these parties to perform as expected, or unexpected interruptions in the Company’s relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the Company, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.  

The Company has engaged a growing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, such as operation of United Express flights, operation of customer service call centers, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. The Company does not directly control these third-party providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. Any of these third-party providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the Company. The failure of these providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other unexpected interruptions of services, may reduce the Company’s revenues and increase its expenses or prevent United from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. In addition, the Company’s business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory.  

The Company’s high level of fixed obligations could limit its ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, could limit its flexibility in responding to competitive developments and could increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.  

The Company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including its Amended Credit Facility, aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other  

23  

Table of Contents 

 material cash obligations. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, the Company had pledged a substantial amount of its assets as collateral to secure its various fixed obligations. The Company’s high level of fixed obligations, a downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings, poor credit market conditions and the Company’s limited amount of unencumbered assets available as collateral for loans or other indebtedness could impair the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and reduce its flexibility to conduct its business. Certain of the Company’s existing indebtedness also require it to meet covenants and financial tests to maintain ongoing access to those borrowings. See Note 11, “Debt Obligations and Card Processing Agreements,” and Note 21, “Subsequent Events,” in the Footnotes for further details related to the Company’s credit agreements and assets pledged as collateral, as well as additional debt issued during early 2010. A failure to timely pay its debts or other material uncured breaches of its contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of the Company’s indebtedness, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers and the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in material adverse effects on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. In such a situation, it is unlikely that the Company would be able to fulfill its obligations to repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments, or otherwise cover its fixed costs.  

The Company’s net operating loss carry forward may be limited or possibly eliminated.   

As of December 31, 2009, the Company had a net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forward tax benefit of approximately $2.7 billion for federal and state income tax purposes which will expire over a five to twenty year period. This tax benefit is mostly attributable to federal pre-tax NOL carry forwards of $7.3 billion. If the Company were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), under certain conditions, its annual federal NOL utilization could be limited to an amount equal to its market capitalization at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate, adjusted for certain built-in gains or losses. A change of ownership under Section 382 of the Code is defined as a cumulative change of more than 50 percentage points or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders owning 5% or more of UAL’s common stock over a three year rolling period.  

To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the Company’s ability to utilize its NOL carry forwards for federal income tax purposes, UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a 5% ownership limitation (the “5% Ownership Limitation”), applicable to all stockholders except the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”). The 5% Ownership Limitation remains effective until February 1, 2011, subject to further extension by the UAL Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors”) and shareholders. The 5% Ownership Limitation prohibits (i) the acquisition by a single stockholder of shares representing 5% or more of the common stock of UAL and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of UAL’s common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the Board of Directors. The percentage ownership of a single stockholder can be computed by dividing the number of shares of common stock held by the stockholder by the sum of the shares of common stock issued and outstanding plus the number of shares of common stock still held in reserve for payment to unsecured creditors under the Debtors’ Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization pursuant to Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the “Plan of Reorganization”). For additional information regarding the 5% Ownership Limitation, please refer to UAL’s restated certificate of incorporation available on its website.  

While the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent a change of ownership from occurring within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code (which ownership change might materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to utilize its NOL carry forward or other tax attributes), no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case the availability of the Company’s substantial NOL carry forward and other federal income tax attributes might be significantly limited or possibly eliminated. Any transfers of common stock that are made in violation of the restrictions set forth above will be void and, pursuant to UAL’s restated certificate of incorporation, will be treated as if such transfer never occurred. This provision may prevent a sale of common stock by a stockholder and adversely affect the price at which a stockholder can  

24  

Table of Contents 

 sell common stock. In addition, this limitation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of UAL, creating a perception that a change in control cannot occur or otherwise discouraging takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider beneficial, which could also adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. UAL cannot predict the effect that this provision in the UAL amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have on the market price of the common stock.  

In addition, under the terms of the Company’s 4.5% Senior Limited-Subordination Convertible Notes due 2021 (the “4.5% Notes”), 5% Senior Convertible Notes due 2021 (the “5% Notes”) and 6% Senior Convertible Notes due 2029 (the “6% Senior Convertible Notes”) (collectively, the “Notes”), noteholders have the option to require UAL to repurchase the Notes on certain dates. UAL may pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of UAL common stock, or a combination thereof. If UAL is required to repurchase such Notes and elects to use shares of common stock rather than cash, a change in ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code could occur depending on the number of Notes repurchased and the number of shares of UAL common stock required to repurchase the Notes. Further, under the terms of the 4.5% Notes, 5% Notes and 6% Senior Convertible Notes, noteholders have the option to convert the Notes into shares of UAL’s common stock at a fixed conversion rate at any time prior to maturity. The conversion of a significant number of the Notes into UAL common stock could, in combination with the shares (if any) used to repurchase the Notes or other transactions, cause a change in ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code to occur. 

The Company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally.  

The Company is a global business with operations outside of the United States from which it derives approximately one-third of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the DOT. The Company’s operations in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Europe are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. Volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the Company’s operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. In addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions, may have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results.  

The Company could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior.  

An outbreak of a disease that affects travel demand or travel behavior, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, avian flu or H1N1 virus, or other illness, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Certain provisions of UAL’s Governance Documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the Board of Directors.  

Certain provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of UAL (together, the “Governance Documents”) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board of Directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial.  

Certain provisions of the Governance Documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if the Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of UAL and its stockholders.  

These provisions of the Governance Documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of UAL’s stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of UAL to negotiate with the Board of Directors, they could enable the Board of Directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.  

25  

Table of Contents 

The issuance of UAL’s contingent senior unsecured notes could adversely impact results of operations, liquidity and financial position and could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders.  

In connection with the Company’s Plan of Reorganization, UAL is obligated under an indenture to issue to the PBGC 8% Contingent Senior Notes (the “8% Notes”) with an aggregate principal amount of up to $500 million in up to eight equal tranches of $62.5 million (with no more than two tranches issued as a result of each issuance trigger event) upon the occurrence of certain financial triggering events. An issuance trigger event occurs when, among other things, the Company’s EBITDAR (as defined in the PBGC indenture) exceeds $3.5 billion over the prior twelve months ending June 30 or December 31 of any applicable fiscal year, beginning with the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and ending with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017. However, if the issuance of a tranche would cause a default under any other securities then existing, UAL may satisfy its obligations with respect to such tranche by issuing UAL common stock having a market value equal to $62.5 million. The issuance of the 8% Notes could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations because of increased interest expense related to the notes and adversely impact its financial position or liquidity due to increased cash required to meet interest and principal payments. Any common stock issued in lieu of debt will cause additional dilution to existing UAL stockholders.  

Risks Related to UAL Common Stock  

The issuance of additional shares of UAL common stock, including upon conversion of its convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders.  

During 2009, UAL issued $345 million aggregate principal amount of 6% Senior Convertible Notes. Previously, UAL issued $726 million of 4.5% Notes and $150 million of 5% Notes in connection with the Company’s Plan of Reorganization. Holders of these securities may convert them into shares of UAL’s common stock according to their terms. See Note 11, “Debt Obligations and Card Processing Agreements,” in the Footnotes for further information regarding these instruments.  

The UAL restated certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. In certain circumstances, UAL can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. In 2008, the Board of Directors approved the issuance of $200 million of UAL common stock as part of an ongoing equity offering by the Company. The Company completed this equity offering during 2009, which produced aggregate net proceeds of approximately $196 million after deducting related expenses. In October 2009, UAL sold an additional 19.0 million shares of UAL common stock in a separate underwritten, public offering generating net proceeds of $132 million. In addition, the Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of UAL’s stockholders. The Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over UAL’s common stock with respect to dividends or if UAL liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. If UAL issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if UAL issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. UAL is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. In the future UAL may decide to raise additional capital through offerings of its common stock, securities convertible into its common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could result in dilution of existing stockholders’ equity interests in UAL. Issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for UAL’s common stock and UAL cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock.  

26  

Table of Contents 

The issuance of UAL common stock upon a noteholder’s exercise of its option to require UAL to repurchase convertible notes could cause dilution to the interests of existing stockholders.  

Under the terms of the Company’s 4.5% Notes, 5% Notes and 6% Senior Convertible Notes, holders of such notes may require UAL to purchase all or a portion of such notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2016 in the case of the 4.5% Notes, February 1, 2011 and February 1, 2016 in the case of the 5% Notes and October 15, 2014, October 15, 2019 and October 15, 2024 in the case of the 6% Senior Convertible Notes. If a noteholder exercises such option, UAL may elect to pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of its common stock or a combination thereof. If UAL elects to pay the repurchase price in shares of its common stock, UAL is obligated to deliver a number of shares of common stock equal to the repurchase price divided by an average price of UAL common stock for a 20-consecutive trading day period. The number of shares issued could be significant. If UAL determines to pay the repurchase price in shares of its common stock, such an issuance could cause significant dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. In addition, if UAL elects to pay the repurchase price in cash, its liquidity could be adversely affected.  

UAL’s certificate of incorporation limits voting rights of certain foreign persons.  

UAL’s restated certificate of incorporation limits the total number of shares of equity securities held by persons who are not “citizens of the United States,” as defined in Section 40102(a)(15) of Title 49 United States Code, to no more than 24.9% of the aggregate votes of all equity securities outstanding. This restriction is applied pro rata among all holders of equity securities who fail to qualify as “citizens of the United States,” based on the number of votes the underlying securities are entitled to.  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.  

None.  

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.