ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks. United’s exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. United’s policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. A portion of United’s aircraft lease obligations and related accrued interest ($295 million in equivalent U.S. dollars at December 31, 2009) is denominated in foreign currencies that expose the Company to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. To hedge against this risk, United has placed foreign currency deposits ($295 million in equivalent U.S. dollars at December 31, 2009), primarily for euros, to meet foreign currency lease obligations denominated in that respective currency. Since unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, United has hedged its overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility with respect to its foreign lease deposits and obligations. The fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate foreign currency swap rate. The fair value of long-term debt is predominantly based on the present value of future cash flows using a U.S. treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread and, to a lesser extent, on the quoted market prices for the same or similar instruments. The table below presents information as of December 31, 2009 about certain of the Company’s financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest and exchange rates. Amounts shown below are the same for both UAL and United, except as noted.  

69  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts also represent United except that in 2009, United’s carrying value and fair value of its cash equivalents are approximately $6 million lower than the reported UAL amounts, and in 2009, its carrying value and fair value of total long-term debt are approximately $346 million and $553 million lower than the reported UAL amounts. In 2008, United’s carrying value and fair value of its cash equivalents and debt obligations are approximately $6 million and $2 million, respectively, lower than the reported UAL amounts. The difference in 2009 debt obligations is attributable to the UAL $345 million principal amount of 6% Senior Convertible Notes issued in October 2009, which is not a United debt obligation.  

In addition to the cash equivalents included in the table above, both UAL and United have $128 million of short-term restricted cash and $213 million and $212 million, respectively, of long-term restricted cash. As discussed in Note 1(d), “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash,” in the Footnotes, restricted cash primarily includes cash collateral to secure workers’ compensation obligations, reserves for institutions that process credit card ticket sales and, in 2009, cash collateral received from fuel hedge counterparties. Due to the short term nature of these cash balances, their carrying values approximate their fair values. The Company’s interest income is exposed to changes in interest rates on these cash balances. During 2007, the Company also repurchased certain of its own debt instruments, which remain outstanding and have a fair value and carrying value of $51 million at December 31, 2009. The Company recognizes changes in fair value of these securities through other comprehensive income; however, on a net basis, the Company is not exposed to market risk due to the existence of offsetting changes in the fair value of the Company’s related debt obligations.  

The material changes in the amounts reported in the table above for 2009 as compared to 2008 include the following: (1) cash and short-term investments increased by approximately $1.0 billion primarily due to cash provided by operating and financing activities, as discussed in Liquidity above; and (2) debt obligations increased by $242 million primarily due to new debt issuances in 2009, partially offset by scheduled debt repayments in 2009. The interest rate on the Company’s cash and variable rate debt decreased in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily due to a decrease in market interest rates.  

Commodity Price Risk (Jet Fuel). Our results of operations and liquidity have been, and may continue to be, materially impacted by changes in the price of aircraft fuel and other oil-related commodities and related derivative instruments. United may use swaps, purchased call options or other derivative instruments to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. The Company’s derivative positions are typically comprised of crude oil, heating oil and jet fuel derivatives. The derivative instruments are designed to provide protection against increases in the price of aircraft fuel. Some derivative instruments may result in hedging losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floors or swap prices; however, the negative impact of these losses may  

70  

Table of Contents 

 be offset by the benefit of lower jet fuel acquisition cost since the Company typically does not hedge all of its fuel consumption, and only uses swaps or sold puts on a portion of the fuel volumes that it does hedge. United may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of United’s fuel-related derivatives was a payable of $5 million and a receivable of $138 million, as compared to a payable of $727 million at December 31, 2008. The primary reasons for this change were the dramatic decrease in fuel prices in the latter part of 2008, subsequent fuel price increases in 2009 and turnover of the Company’s hedge portfolio to instruments with a lower average strike price. At December 31, 2009, the Company also had $15 million of additional fuel derivative payables related to pending settlements for purchased call options and expired contracts.  

As of December 31, 2009, the Company had hedged approximately 36% of its 2010 consolidated fuel consumption primarily with a combination of swaps and purchased call options. The Company’s hedge position at December 31, 2009 consists of a notional amount of 9.7 million barrels with purchased call options at a weighted-average crude oil equivalent strike price of $76 per barrel and 9.9 million barrels with swaps at an average price of $77 per barrel. All of these derivative instruments mature within 12 months of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had hedged 34% of its 2009 consolidated fuel consumption, primarily with collar structures. The Company had significant losses on its 2008 hedge position as certain of the collar structures required payments by United to its counterparties for decreases in the price of crude oil below approximately $100 per barrel.  

The above derivative positions are subject to potential counterparty cash collateral requirements in some circumstances. The Company provided counterparties with cash collateral of $10 million as of December 31, 2009.  

Foreign Currency. United generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Such expenses include fuel, aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel expense, advertising and distribution costs, customer service expenses and aircraft maintenance. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Company’s results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses.  

Despite the adverse effects a strengthening foreign currency may have on demand for U.S.-originating traffic, a strengthening of foreign currencies tends to increase reported revenue and operating income because the Company’s foreign currency-denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign currency-denominated operating expense for each currency. Likewise, despite the favorable effects a weakening foreign currency may have on demand for U.S.-originating traffic, a weakening of foreign currencies tends to decrease reported revenue and operating income.  

The Company’s most significant net foreign currency exposures in 2009, based on exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2009, are presented in the table below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company may use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2009, the Company did not have any derivative positions to hedge foreign currency cash flows. As of December 31, 2008, the Company hedged a portion of its expected foreign currency cash flows in the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and European euro. As of December 31, 2008, the notional amount of these foreign currencies hedged with the forward contracts in U.S. dollars terms was approximately $62 million, based on contractual forward rates. These contracts had a fair value of $10 million at December 31, 2008.  

71  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA