Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 Financial Section Roadmap  

 Management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A) can be found on pages 30 to 61, the report related to the financial statements and internal control over financial reporting can be found on page 62 and the financial statements and related notes can be found on pages F-1 to F-64. The following table is designed to assist in your review of MD&A.  

 30   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Overview and Outlook  

 L-3’s Business  

 L-3 is a prime system contractor in aircraft modernization and maintenance, Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C3ISR) systems, and government services. L-3 is also a leading provider of high technology products, subsystems and systems. Our customers include the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and its prime contractors, U.S. Government intelligence agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Department of State (DoS) and U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ), allied foreign governments, domestic and international commercial customers and select other U.S. federal, state and local government agencies.  

 We have the following four reportable segments: (1) C3ISR, (2) Government Services, (3) Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M), and (4) Specialized Products. Financial information for our reportable segments is included in Note 21 to our audited consolidated financial statements. C3ISR provides products and services for the global ISR market, networked communications systems and secure communications products. We believe that these products and services are critical elements for a substantial number of major command, control, communication, intelligence gathering and space systems. These products and services are used to connect a variety of airborne, space, ground and sea-based communication systems and are used in the transmission, processing, recording, monitoring, and dissemination functions of these communication systems. Government Services provides training and operational support services, enterprise information technology solutions, intelligence solutions and support, command & control systems and software services and global security & engineering solutions services. AM&M provides modernization, upgrades and sustainment, maintenance and logistics support services for military and various government aircraft and other platforms. Specialized Products provides a broad range of products and related services  

 31   
 across several business areas that include power & control systems, electro-optic/infrared (EO/IR), microwave, avionics & displays, simulation & training, precision engagement, security & detection systems, propulsion systems, telemetry & advanced technology, undersea warfare, and marine services.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2008, we generated sales of $14,901 million. Our primary customer was the DoD. The table below presents a summary of our 2008 sales by end customer and the percent contributed by each to our total 2008 sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Most of our contracts (revenue arrangements) with the U.S. Government are subject to U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency audits and various cost and pricing regulations, and include standard provisions for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. Multiyear U.S. Government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable. Foreign government contracts generally include comparable provisions relating to termination for the convenience of the relevant foreign government.  

 Business Strategy  

 Our business strategy is customer-focused and aims to increase shareholder value by providing products and services to our customers that create value for them with responsive, high-quality and affordable solutions. Financially, our emphasis is on sustainably growing earnings per share and cash flow. Our strategy involves a flexible and balanced combination of organic growth, cost reductions, select business acquisitions and divestitures, dividends and share repurchases, enabling us to grow the company and return cash to our shareholders. We intend to maintain and expand our position as a leading supplier of products, subsystems, systems and services to the DoD, other U.S. Government agencies, allied foreign governments and commercial customers, both domestic and international. Our strategy includes the objectives discussed below.  

 We intend to expand our prime system contractor roles in select business areas where we have domain expertise, including C3ISR, aircraft modernization and maintenance and government technical services. We also intend to enter into “teaming” arrangements with other prime system contractors and platform original equipment manufacturers to compete for select new business opportunities. As an independent supplier of a broad range of products, subsystems and systems in several key business areas, our growth will partially be driven by expanding our share on existing programs and participating on new programs. We also expect to identify opportunities to use our customer relationships and leverage the capabilities of our various businesses, including proprietary technologies, to expand the scope of our products and services to existing and new customers. We also intend to continue to supplement our growth by participating on and competing for new programs internationally, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia.  

 We intend to use our existing prime contractor and supplier positions and internal investments to grow our sales organically. We expect to benefit from our positions as a supplier to multiple bidders on select prime  

 32   
 contract bids. We plan to maintain our diversified and broad business mix with its limited reliance on any single contract and significant follow-on and new business opportunities. We also expect to continue to supplement our organic sales growth by selectively acquiring businesses that add new products, services, technologies, programs or customers to our existing businesses, and provide attractive returns on investment.  

 We believe that favorable performance on our existing contracts is the foundation for successfully meeting our objectives of expanding L-3’s prime contractor and supplier positions and growing sales organically. We believe that a prerequisite for growing and winning new business is to retain our existing business with successful contract performance, including schedule, cost, technical and other performance criteria. Therefore, we will continue to focus on delivering superior contract performance to our customers to maintain our reputation as an agile and responsive contractor and to differentiate L-3 from its competitors.  

 We intend to continue to aggressively improve and reduce our direct contract costs and overhead costs, including general and administrative costs. Effective management of labor, material, subcontractor and other direct costs is a primary element of favorable contract performance. We also intend to grow sales at a faster rate than overhead costs. We believe continuous cost improvement will enable us to increase our cost competitiveness, expand operating margin and selectively invest in new product development, bids and proposals and other business development activities to organically grow sales.  

 We intend to continue to align our internal investments in research and development, business development and capital expenditures to proactively address customer requirements and priorities with our products, services and solutions. We also intend to grow our sales through the introduction of new products and services and continued increased collaboration between our businesses to offer the best quality and competitive solutions and services to our customers.  

 Industry Considerations  

 In recent years, a variety of changing conditions have significantly affected the markets for defense systems, products and services. There has been a fundamental shift in focus from a traditional “threat-based” model to one that emphasizes a broad range of capabilities needed to respond to all contingencies and to defeat all adversaries (all hazards, all threats). This expanded scope has transformed the U.S. defense posture to a “capabilities-based” orientation that can be tailored and structured to meet the demands of contemporary and future national and homeland security requirements. This new approach involves creating a more flexible response with appropriate capability, agility and force while highlighting changing technologies and operational approaches applied to the challenges we face at every level of warfare and in conditions short of war. The entire set of capabilities resident in the DoD inventory will be examined for change, with special attention given to improved strategic defense systems, interoperable and brilliant networked information and communications systems, precise weapons and survivable delivery platforms, improved and enhanced intelligence, reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition (IRSTA) systems, and security systems in general. This transformation also includes the application of military capabilities for homeland defense and selected emergency response efforts.  

 We anticipate that the 2010 U.S. Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) will incorporate “lessons learned” from U.S. military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, the Balkans, and from other conflicts and security-related events around the world. We anticipate the promotion of enhanced special operations and irregular warfare capabilities, improved intelligence gathering and application, greater language and cultural capabilities, more effective communications and information sharing, and enhanced security cooperation with partner nations. We also anticipate increased attention to selected strategic capabilities to maintain a strong deterrent posture against future challenges to our security.  

 In recent years DoD budgets have reflected increased focus on C5ISR (command, control, communications, computers, collaboration and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance), precision-guided weapons, UAVs and other electro-mechanical robotic capabilities, networked information technologies, special operations forces, and missile defense. In addition, the DoD has focused on a transformation strategy that seeks to balance modernization and recapitalization (or upgrading existing platforms and capabilities) while enhancing readiness and joint operations — all while engaging in demanding on-going military operations.  

 33   
 As a result, defense budget program allocations continue to favor immediate war-fighting improvements and concurrent limited investment in future programs. DoD’s emphasis on systems interoperability, force multipliers, advances in intelligence gathering, and the provision of real-time relevant data to battle commanders — often referred to as the common operating picture (COP), have increased the electronic content of nearly all major military procurement and research programs. Therefore, it is expected that the DoD budget for information technologies and defense electronics will grow. We believe L-3 is well positioned to benefit from the expected focus in those areas.  

 While the DoD budget could be affected by several factors, including current and future economic conditions and the new administration priorities, we are unable to predict the impact and outcome of these uncertainties. However, the current outlook is one of more precise application of DoD spending, which will continue to support L-3’s future orders and sales, operating results and cash flows. Conversely, a decline in the DoD budget would generally have a negative effect on future orders, sales, operating profits, and cash flows of defense contractors, including L-3, depending on the platforms and programs affected by such budget reductions.  

 With regard to U.S. homeland defense and security, increased emphasis in these important endeavors may increase the demand for our capabilities in areas such as security systems, information assurance and cyber security, crisis management, preparedness and prevention services, and non-DoD security operations.  

 On balance, L-3 is one of the key U.S. providers of product, capability and support and services in both defense and homeland security. Anticipated business in these key critical areas favors a vital and rewarding future for our company.  

 Key Performance Measures  

 The primary financial performance measures that L-3 uses to manage its businesses and monitor results of operations are sales growth and operating income growth. Management believes that these financial performance measures are the primary growth drivers for L-3’s earnings per share and net cash from operating activities. L-3’s business strategy is focused on increasing sales from organic growth and select business acquisitions that add new products, services, technologies, programs or customers in areas that complement L-3’s existing businesses. We define organic sales growth as the increase or decrease in sales for the current period compared to the prior period, excluding sales in the (1) current period from business and product line acquisitions that have been included in L-3’s actual results of operations for less than twelve months, and (2) prior period from business and product line divestitures that are included in L-3’s actual results of operations for the twelve-month period prior to the divestiture date. The two main determinants of our operating income growth are sales growth and improvements in operating margin. We define operating margin as operating income as a percentage of sales.  

 Sales Growth. Our average annual sales growth for the five years ended December 31, 2008, was 25%, with average annual organic sales growth of approximately 10% and average annual sales growth from business acquisitions of approximately 15%. Sales growth for the year ended December 31, 2008 was 7%, comprised of organic sales growth of 5%, and sales growth from business acquisitions, net of divestitures, of 2%.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2008, our largest contract (revenue arrangement) in terms of annual sales was the USAF CFT contract, which generated 3% of our sales. CFT is a multi-sourced contract, which provides worldwide quick reaction maintenance of deployed aircraft and ground vehicles for the U.S. military. The USAF recently selected L-3 as one of the winning contractors for the next CFT indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract that began on October 1, 2008. There will be more contractors competing for task orders on the new CFT contract compared to the existing contract, and therefore, we may not be able to maintain our annual sales on the new contract.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2007, our largest contract (revenue arrangement) in terms of annual sales was the World Wide Linguist Support Services contract (Linguist Contract), which generated 5% of 2007 consolidated sales. On February 15, 2008, the U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command  

 34   
 (INSCOM) announced that it did not select our proposal for the Translation and Interpretation Management Services (TIMS) contract. The TIMS contract is the successor contract to the portion of the Linguist Contract that provides translators and linguists in support of the U.S. military operations in Iraq. On June 9, 2008, we transitioned from our prime contract to a subcontract with Global Linguist Solutions (GLS) to supply translation and interpretation services in Iraq under the TIMS contract.  

 We, as most U.S. defense contractors, have benefited from the upward trend in DoD budget authorization and spending outlays over recent years, including supplemental appropriations for military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Global War on Terror (GWOT). We believe that our businesses should be able to generate organic sales growth for the foreseeable future because we anticipate the defense budget will continue its focus on areas that match certain of the core competencies of L-3: communications and persistent ISR, sensors, precision engagement, Special Operations Forces, wartime support services and simulation & training. The increased DoD spending during recent years has included supplemental appropriations for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. These appropriations have enabled the DoD to proceed with its recapitalization and reconstitution programs that are directly related to the U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which allowed for the focus of base budget resources on transformational modernization programs.  

 The current and future DoD budgets and level of future Congressional supplemental appropriations for U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan could remain unchanged or decline because of several factors, including but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, new administration priorities, changing national security and defense requirements, and geo-political developments, which are beyond our control. Any of these factors could result in a significant decline in or redirection of current and future DoD budgets and impact L-3’s future results of operations, including our organic sales growth rate. Additionally, L-3’s future results of operations and sales growth are affected by our ability to retain our existing business and to successfully compete for new business, which largely depend on: (1) our successful performance on existing contracts, (2) the effectiveness and innovation of our technologies and research and development activities, (3) our ability to offer better program performance than our competitors at a lower cost, and (4) our ability to retain our employees and hire new ones, particularly those employees who have U.S. Government security clearances.  

 Operating Income Growth. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our consolidated operating income was $1,685 million and our consolidated operating margin was 11.3%. Our operating income and operating margins for the year ended December 31, 2008, were impacted by certain items which occurred during the 2008 second quarter, as further discussed below. Excluding these same items, our consolidated operating income was $1,575 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of 9% from $1,448 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and our consolidated operating margin was 10.6% for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of 20 basis points from 10.4% for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

 Excluding an increase in our 2009 pension expense because of a 28% decline in pension plan asset returns as a result of declines in equity and fixed income financial markets during 2008, we expect to continue to generate modest annual increases in operating margin as we expect to increase sales, grow sales at a faster rate than indirect costs and improve our overall contract performance. However, we may not be able to expand our operating margin on an annual basis. Additionally, in the future, select business acquisitions and select new business could reduce our operating margins, if the margins are lower than L-3’s existing operating margin. In addition, any further decline in pension plan asset returns during 2009 could reduce our operating margins in 2010. Our business objectives include growing earnings per share and cash flow. Improving operating margins is one method for achieving this growth, but it is not the only one.  

 Other 2008 Events  

 Our 2008 results were affected by three matters, which increased consolidated operating income by $110 million, income before income taxes by $117 million, net income by $71 million and diluted earnings per share (EPS) by $0.58, which are collectively referred to as the Q2 2008 Items:  

    •   A gain of $133 million ($81 million after income taxes, or $0.66 per share) for the reversal of a $126 million current liability for pending and threatening litigation as a result of a June 27, 2008    

 35   
      decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals that vacated an adverse 2006 jury verdict and $7 million of related accrued interest, which is recorded in interest expense and other items (the “Litigation Gain”);    

    •   A gain of $12 million ($7 million after income taxes, or $0.06 per share) from the sale of a product line (the “Product Line Divestiture Gain”); and   

    •   A non-cash impairment charge of $28 million ($17 million after income taxes, or $0.14 per share) relating to a write-down of capitalized software development costs for a general aviation product (the “Impairment Charge”).    

 Also, on October 8, 2008, we divested our 85% ownership interest in METI and recorded a gain in the year ended December 31, 2008 of $33 million ($20 million after income taxes, or $0.16 per diluted share). The gain is excluded from income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

 Liquidity  

 Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow generated from operations. We generated $1,387 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2008. We also had cash and cash equivalents of $867 million at December 31, 2008. Notwithstanding the recent declines in equity and fixed income financial markets and diminished liquidity and credit availability, we currently believe that our liquidity is adequate to meet our anticipated requirements. Our first scheduled maturity of outstanding debt is our $650 million term loan facility, which matures on March 9, 2010. Our intention is to refinance all or a portion of the $650 million term loan facility borrowings, if we are able to do so on terms that are acceptable to us. If such terms are not available to us, we intend to repay the term loan facility with cash on hand. Our revolving credit facility also matures on March 9, 2010. We intend to enter into a new revolving credit facility at or before that time. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” on page 51.  

 Business Acquisitions and Business and Product Line Dispositions  

 As discussed above, a portion of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire businesses that add new products, services, technologies, programs or customers to our existing businesses. We intend to continue acquiring select businesses for reasonable valuations that will provide attractive returns to L-3. Our business acquisitions, depending on their business-type, contract-type, sales mix or other factors, could reduce L-3’s consolidated operating margin while still increasing L-3’s operating income, earnings per share, and net cash from operating activities.  

 36   
 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures  

 Acquisitions. The table below summarizes the acquisitions that we have completed during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, referred to herein as business acquisitions. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our business acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we used $283 million in the aggregate for business acquisitions, including earnout payments and remaining contractual purchase prices.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)    The purchase price represents the contractual consideration for the acquired business, excluding adjustments for net cash acquired and acquisition transaction costs.   

  (2)    Excludes additional purchase price for SafeView, not to exceed $35 million, in the aggregate, which is contingent upon its financial performance through December 31, 2008. The remaining contractual purchase price is currently subject to an arbitration proceeding, see Note 18 to our audited consolidated financial statements.   

  (3)    We increased our ownership interest in METI from approximately 47% to 80% in 2006 and from 80% to 85% in 2008. METI was sold on October 8, 2008, as described below.   

  (4)    Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $2 million, in the aggregate, which is contingent upon certain contract awards to Nautronix through 2010.   

  (5)    Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $5 million, in the aggregate, which is contingent upon the financial performance of Nova for the years ending December 31, 2009 and 2010.   

  (6)    Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $1 million, in the aggregate, which is contingent upon the financial performance of TACNET for the years ending December 31, 2009 and 2010.    

 37   
  (7)    Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $13 million, in the aggregate, which is contingent upon the financial performance of Geneva for the year ending December 31, 2009.   

  (8)    Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $1 million, in the aggregate, which is contingent upon the financial performance of GAI through July 2011.   

  (9)    The final purchase price is subject to adjustment based on final closing date net assets.    

 All of our business acquisitions are included in our consolidated results of operations from their dates of acquisition. We regularly evaluate potential business acquisitions. Additionally, on January 30, 2009, we acquired Chesapeake Sciences Corporation (CSC). CSC is a developer and manufacturer of anti-submarine warfare systems for use onboard submarines and surface ship combatants.  

 Divestitures. On October 8, 2008, we divested our 85% ownership interest in METI, which is within the Specialized Products segment. The sale resulted in a gain in the year ended December 31, 2008 of $33 million ($20 million after income taxes). The gain is excluded from income from continuing operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. The revenues, operating results and net assets of METI for all periods presented were not material and therefore not presented as discontinued operations. The sales price and related gain with respect to this business divestiture are subject to adjustment based on actual closing date net working capital, which is expected to be resolved during the first quarter of 2009. On May 9, 2008, we sold the Electron Technologies Passive Microwave Devices (PMD) product line within the Specialized Products segment and recognized an after-tax gain of approximately $7 million (pre-tax gain of $12 million).  

 Critical Accounting Policies  

 Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and cost of sales during the reporting period. The most significant of these estimates and assumptions relate to contract revenue, profit and loss recognition, fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, market values for inventories reported at lower of cost or market, pension and post-retirement benefit obligations, stock-based employee compensation expense, valuation of deferred taxes, litigation reserves and environmental obligations, accrued product warranty costs and the recoverability, useful lives and valuation of recorded amounts of long-lived assets, identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Actual amounts will differ from these estimates and could differ materially. We believe that our critical accounting estimates have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make assumptions about matters that are uncertain and inherently judgmental at the time of the estimate; (2) use of reasonably different assumptions could have changed our estimates, particularly with respect to estimates of contract revenues and costs, and recoverability of assets, and (3) changes in the estimate could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe the following critical accounting policies contain the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.  

 Contract Revenue Recognition and Contract Estimates. A large portion of our revenue is generated using written contracts (revenue arrangements) that require us to design, develop, manufacture, modify, upgrade, test and integrate complex aerospace and electronic equipment, and to provide related engineering and technical services according to the buyer’s specifications. These revenue arrangements or contracts are generally fixed price, cost-reimbursable, or time-and-material. These contracts are covered by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 81-1, Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts (SOP 81-1) and Accounting Research Bulletin No. 45, Long-Term Construction-Type Contracts (ARB 45). Cost-reimbursable type contracts are also specifically covered by Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 11, Section A, Government Contracts, Cost-Plus-Fixed Fee Contracts (ARB 43). Substantially all of our cost-reimbursable type and time and material type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. Certain of our contracts with the  

 38   
 U.S. Government are multi-year contracts that are funded annually by the customer, and sales on these multi-year contracts are based on amounts appropriated (funded) by the U.S. Government.  

 Sales and profits on fixed-price type contracts that are covered by SOP 81-1, ARB 43 and ARB 45 are substantially recognized using percentage-of-completion (POC) methods of accounting. Sales and profits on fixed-price production contracts under which units are produced and delivered in a continuous or sequential process are recorded as units are delivered based on their contractual selling prices (the “units-of-delivery” method). Sales and profits on each fixed-price production contract under which units are not produced and delivered in a continuous or sequential process, or under which a relatively few number of units are produced, are recorded based on the ratio of actual cumulative costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion of the contract multiplied by the total estimated contract revenue, less cumulative sales recognized in prior periods (the “cost-to-cost” method). Under the POC methods of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each contract over its entire period of performance, which can exceed one year.  

 Accounting for the sales on these fixed-price contracts, require the preparation of estimates of (1) the total contract revenue, (2) the total costs at completion, which is equal to the sum of the actual incurred costs to date on the contract and the estimated costs to complete the contract’s statement of work, and (3) the measurement of progress towards completion. The estimated profit or loss at completion on a contract is equal to the difference between the total estimated contract revenue and the total estimated cost at completion. Under the units-of-delivery method, sales on a fixed-price type contract are recorded as the units are delivered during the period based on their contractual selling prices. Under the cost-to-cost method, sales on a fixed-price type contract are recorded at amounts equal to the ratio of actual cumulative costs incurred divided by total estimated costs at completion, multiplied by (i) the total estimated contract revenue, less (ii) the cumulative sales recognized in prior periods. The profit recorded on a contract in any period using either the units-of-delivery method or cost-to-cost method is equal to (i) the current estimated total profit margin multiplied by the cumulative sales recognized, less (ii) the amount of cumulative profit previously recorded for the contract. In the case of a contract for which the total estimated costs exceed the total estimated revenues, a loss arises, and a provision for the entire loss is recorded in the period that the loss becomes evident. The unrecoverable costs on a loss contract that are expected to be incurred in future periods are recorded as a component of other current liabilities entitled “Estimated cost in excess of estimated contract value to complete contracts in process in a loss position.”  

 Adjustments to estimates for a contract’s revenue, estimated costs at completion and estimated profit or loss are often required as work progresses under a contract, as experience is gained and as more information is obtained, even though the scope of work required under the contract may not change, or if contract modifications occur. The impact of revisions in profit (loss) estimates for all types of contracts subject to percentage-of-completion accounting are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions are made. Amounts representing contract change orders or claims are included in sales only when they can be reliably estimated and their realization is reasonably assured. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant, can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as reduce the valuations of receivables and inventories, and in some cases result in liabilities to complete contracts in a loss position.  

 Sales and profits on cost-reimbursable type contracts that are within the scope of ARB 43, in addition to SOP 81-1, are recognized as allowable costs are incurred on the contract, at an amount equal to the allowable costs plus the estimated profit on those costs. The estimated profit on a cost-reimbursable contract is fixed or variable based on the contractual fee arrangement. Incentive and award fees are our primary variable fee contractual arrangement. Incentive and award fees on cost-reimbursable type contracts are included as an element of total estimated contract revenues and recorded to sales in accordance with SOP 81-1 when a basis exists for the reasonable prediction of performance in relation to established contractual targets and we are able to make reasonably dependable estimates for them. Sales and profits on time-and-material type contracts are recognized on the basis of direct labor hours expended multiplied by the contractual fixed rate per hour, plus the actual costs of material and other direct non-labor costs. On a time-and-material type contract, the fixed hourly rates include amounts for the cost of direct labor, indirect contract costs and profit. Cost-reimbursable type or time-and-material type contracts generally contain less estimation risks than fixed-price type contracts.  

 39   
 Sales on arrangements for (1) fixed-price type contracts that require us to perform services that are not related to production of tangible assets (Fixed-Price Service Contracts), and (2) certain commercial customers are recognized in accordance with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, Revenue Recognition (SAB 104). Sales for our businesses whose customers are primarily commercial business enterprises are substantially generated from single element revenue arrangements. Sales are recognized when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred or services have been performed, the selling price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Sales for Fixed-Price Service Contracts that do not contain measurable units of work performed are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual service period, unless evidence suggests that the revenue is earned, or obligations fulfilled, in a different manner. Sales for Fixed-Price Service Contracts that contain measurable units of work performed are generally recognized when the units of work are completed. Sales and profit on cost-reimbursable and time and material type contracts within the scope of SAB 104 are recognized in the same manner as those within the scope of ARB 43 and SOP 81-1, except for incentive and award fees. Cost-based incentive fees are recognized when they are realizable in the amount that would be due under the contractual termination provisions as if the contract was terminated. Performance based incentive fees and award fees are recorded as sales when awarded by the customer.  

 Sales and profit in connection with contracts to provide services to the U.S. Government within the scope of SAB 104 that may be at risk of collection because the contracts are incrementally funded and subject to the availability of funds appropriated are deferred until the contract modification is obtained, indicating that adequate funds are available to the contract or task order.  

 Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets. In accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS 141), we allocate the cost of business acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition (commonly referred to as the purchase price allocation). As part of the purchase price allocations for our business acquisitions, identifiable intangible assets are recognized as assets apart from goodwill if they arise from contractual or other legal rights, or if they are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired business and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. However, in accordance with SFAS 141, we do not recognize any intangible assets apart from goodwill for the assembled workforces of our business acquisitions.  

 Generally, the largest separately identifiable intangible asset from the businesses that we acquire is the value of their assembled workforces, which includes the human capital of the management, administrative, marketing and business development, scientific, engineering and technical employees of the acquired businesses. The success of our businesses, including their ability to retain existing business (revenue arrangements) and to successfully compete for and win new business (revenue arrangements), is primarily dependent on the management, marketing and business development, contracting, engineering and technical skills and knowledge of our employees, rather than on productive capital (plant and equipment, and technology and intellectual property). Additionally, for a significant portion of our businesses, our ability to attract and retain employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly those with top-secret and above clearances, is critical to our success, and is often a prerequisite for retaining existing revenue arrangements and pursuing new ones. Generally, patents, trademarks and licenses are not material for our acquired businesses. Furthermore, our U.S. Government contracts (revenue arrangements) generally permit other companies to use our patents in most domestic work performed by such other companies for the U.S. Government. Therefore, because intangible assets for assembled workforces are part of goodwill in accordance with paragraph 39 of SFAS 141, the substantial majority of the intangible assets for our acquired business acquisitions are recognized as goodwill. Additionally, the value assigned to goodwill for our business acquisitions also includes the value that we expect to realize from cost reduction measures that we implement for our acquired businesses. Goodwill equals the amount of the purchase price of the business acquired in excess of the sum of the amounts assigned to identifiable acquired assets, both tangible and intangible, less liabilities assumed. At December 31, 2008, we had goodwill of $8,029 million and identifiable intangible assets of $417 million.  

 The most significant identifiable intangible asset that is separately recognized in accordance with SFAS 141 for our business acquisitions is customer contractual relationships. All of our customer  

 40   
 relationships are established through written customer contracts (revenue arrangements). The fair value for customer contractual relationships is determined, as of the date of acquisition, based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the estimated future after-tax earnings and cash flows (including cash flows from working capital) arising from the follow-on sales on contract (revenue arrangement) renewals expected from customer contractual relationships over their estimated lives, including the probability of expected future contract renewals and sales, less a contributory assets charge, all of which is discounted to present value. If actual future after-tax cash flows are significantly lower than our estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the identifiable intangible assets to their realizable values. All identifiable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives as the economic benefits are consumed, ranging from 4 to 30 years.  

 We review goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also review goodwill annually in accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). Pursuant to our adoption of SFAS 142 on January 1, 2002, we selected a goodwill impairment measurement date of January 1 of each year; and we have determined that goodwill was not impaired as of January 1, 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we changed our impairment measurement date to November 30 of each year. See Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the change in the goodwill impairment date.  

 SFAS 142 requires that goodwill be tested, at a minimum, annually for each reporting unit using a two-step process. A reporting unit is an operating segment, as defined in paragraph 10 of SFAS No. 131, Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, or a component of an operating segment. A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and is reviewed by operating segment management. Two or more components of an operating segment may be aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing purposes if the components have similar economic characteristics. The first step is to identify any potential impairment by comparing the carrying value of the reporting unit to its fair value. If a potential impairment is identified, the second step is to measure the impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying value of goodwill of the reporting unit. Our methodology for determining the fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow (DCF) valuation approach, and is dependent on estimates for future sales, operating income, depreciation and amortization, income tax payments, working capital changes, and capital expenditures, as well as, expected growth rates for cash flows and long-term interest rates, all of which are affected by economic conditions related to the industries in which we operate, as well as, conditions in the U.S. capital markets.  

 The more significant assumptions used in a DCF valuation regarding the estimated fair values of our reporting units in connection with goodwill valuation assessments are: (1) detailed five year cash flow projections for each of our reporting units, (2) a risk adjusted discount rate including the estimated risk-free rate of return, and (3) the expected long-term growth rate of our businesses, which approximates the expected long-term growth rate for the U.S. economy and the industries in which we operate. The risk adjusted discount rate represents the estimated weighted-average cost of capital (WACC) for the reporting units. It is comprised of (1) an estimated required rate of return on equity, based on publicly traded companies with business characteristics comparable to L-3’s reporting units, including a risk free rate of return and an equity risk premium, and (2) the current after-tax market rate of return on L-3’s debt, each weighted by the relative market value percentages of L-3’s equity and debt. The valuation of our reporting units performed as of November 30, 2008 in connection with our annual impairment test used a weighted average risk adjusted discount rate of approximately 9%. The table below presents the impact on the fair value of reporting units for select changes in the risk adjusted discount rate, expected long-term growth rate and cash flow projections.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 41   
 A decline in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, and a related non-cash impairment charge against earnings, if estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. A large decline in estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

 Pension Plan and Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations. The obligations for our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans and the related annual costs of employee benefits are calculated based on several long-term assumptions, including discount rates for employee benefit liabilities, rates of return on plan assets, expected annual rates for salary increases for employee participants in the case of pension plans, and expected annual increases in the costs of medical and other health care benefits in the case of postretirement benefit obligations. These long-term assumptions are subject to revision based on changes in interest rates, financial market conditions, expected versus actual returns on plan assets, participant mortality rates and other actuarial assumptions, including future rates of salary increases, benefit formulas and levels, and rates of increase in the costs of benefits. Changes in the assumptions, if significant, can materially affect the amount of annual net periodic benefit costs recognized in our results of operations from one year to the next, the liabilities for the pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, and our annual cash requirements to fund these plans. Changes to our expected long-term assumptions for 2009 are not expected to significantly impact our 2009 pension expense compared to 2008. However, due to negative pension plan asset returns during 2008, our pension expense for 2009 is expected to increase by $76 million to $163 million from $87 million in 2008. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Pension Plans” on page 53 for a further discussion of our estimated 2009 pension expense.  

 Discount rates are used to determine the present value of our pension obligations and also affect the amount of pension expense in any given period. The discount rate assumptions used to determine our pension and postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were based on a hypothetical double A yield curve represented by a series of annualized individual discount rates. Each bond issue underlying the yield curve is required to have a rating of AA or better by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and/or Standard & Poor’s. The resulting discount rate reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the yield curve. For a sensitivity analysis projecting the impact of a change in the discount rate on our projected benefit obligation and pension expense, see “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Pension Plans” on page 53.  

 Valuation of Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities. At December 31, 2008, we had net deferred tax assets of $101 million, including $15 million for loss carryforwards and $10 million for tax credit carryforwards which are subject to various limitations and will expire if unused within their respective carryforward periods. Deferred income taxes are determined separately for each of our tax-paying entities in each tax jurisdiction. The future realization of our deferred income tax assets ultimately depends on our ability to generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gains) within the carryback and carryforward periods available under the tax law and, to a lesser extent, our ability to execute successful tax planning strategies. Based on our estimates of the amounts and timing of future taxable income and tax planning strategies, we believe that L-3 will be able to realize its net deferred tax assets. A change in the ability of our operations to continue to generate future taxable income, or our ability to implement desired tax planning strategies, could affect our ability to realize the future tax deductions underlying our net deferred tax assets, and require us to provide a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. The recognition of a valuation allowance would result in a reduction to net income and, if significant, could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial position in any given period.  

 Liabilities for Pending and Threatened Litigation. We are subject to litigation, government investigations, proceedings, claims or assessments and various contingent liabilities incidental to our business or assumed in connection with certain business acquisitions. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, we accrue a charge for a loss contingency when we believe it is both probable that a liability has been incurred, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If the loss is within a range of  

 42   
 specified amounts, the most likely amount is accrued, and if no amount within the range represents a better estimate we accrue the minimum amount in the range. Generally, we record the loss contingency at the amount we expect to pay to resolve the contingency and the amount is generally not discounted to the present value. Amounts recoverable under insurance contracts are recorded as assets when recovery is deemed probable. Contingencies that might result in a gain are not recognized until realizable. Changes to the amount of the estimated loss, or resolution of one or more contingencies could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  

 Valuation of Long-Lived Assets. In addition to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets recognized in connection with our business acquisitions, our long-lived assets also include property, plant and equipment, capitalized software development costs for software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, and certain long-term investments. As of December 31, 2008, the consolidated carrying values of our property, plant and equipment were $821 million, capitalized software development costs were $47 million and certain long-term investments were $30 million. As of December 31, 2008, the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment represented 6% of total assets and the carrying value of our capitalized software development costs and certain long-term investments each represented less than 1% of total assets. We review the valuation of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value or net realizable value expected to result from the asset’s use and eventual disposition. We use a variety of factors to assess valuation, depending upon the asset. Long-lived assets are evaluated based upon the expected period the asset will be utilized, and other factors depending on the asset, including estimated future sales, profits and related cash flows, estimated product acceptance and product life cycles, changes in technology and customer demand, and the performance of invested companies and joint ventures, as well as volatility in external markets for investments. Changes in estimates and judgments on any of these factors could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.  

 Results of Operations  

 The following information should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements. Our results of operations for certain periods presented are affected significantly by our business acquisitions. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our business acquisitions.  

 43   
 Consolidated Results of Operations  

 The table below provides selected financial data for L-3 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   The year ended December 31, 2008 includes: (1) a gain of $12 million ($7 million after income taxes, or $0.06 per share) from the sale of a product line (the “Product Line Divestiture Gain”), and (2) a non-cash impairment charge of $28 million ($17 million after income taxes, or $0.14 per share) related to a write-down of capitalized software development costs for a general aviation product (the “Impairment Charge”). Together with the Litigation Gain described in Note (2), these items are referred to as the Q2 2008 Items.   

  (2)   The “Litigation Gain” represents a June 27, 2008 decision by the U.S Court of Appeals to vacate an adverse 2006 jury verdict, see Note (3) below. In the second quarter of 2008, we recorded a gain of $133 million ($81 million after income taxes, or $0.66 per diluted share), comprised of a $126 million reversal of a current liability for pending and threatened litigation and $7 million for related accrued interest.   

  (3)   Includes (1) a pre-tax charge of $129 million ($78 million after income taxes or $0.63 per diluted share) related to an adverse jury verdict on May 24, 2006 (see OSI Systems, Inc. in Note 18 to our audited consolidated financial statements), and (2) a pre-tax charge of $39 million ($25 million after income taxes or $0.20 per diluted share) in connection with our voluntary review of our past stock option granting practices (see Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements). These two 2006 charges are collectively referred to herein as the Q2 2006 Charges.     

 2008 Compared with 2007  

 Net sales: For the year ended December 31, 2008, consolidated net sales increased by 7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Consolidated organic sales growth of 5%, or $675 million, was driven primarily by growth in all business segments except for Government Services, which decreased because of lower linguist services. The increase in consolidated net sales from acquired businesses was $265 million, or 2%. Sales from services increased by $382 million to $7,771 million, representing approximately 52% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $7,389 million, or 53% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in service sales was primarily due to organic sales growth in Government Services, excluding lower linguist services, and ISR systems, networked communications systems, base and aircraft support services and several areas in the Specialized Products reportable segment. Sales from products increased by $558 million to $7,130 million for the year  

 44   
 ended December 31, 2008, compared to $6,572 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in product sales was primarily due to organic sales growth in aircraft modernization, networked communications systems, and several product areas in the Specialized Products reportable segment. See the reportable segment discussions below for more analysis of our sales growth.  

 Operating income and operating margin: For the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, consolidated operating income increased by $237 million, and consolidated operating margin increased to 11.3% from 10.4%. The Q2 2008 Items increased consolidated operating income by $110 million and operating margin by 70 basis points. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, consolidated operating margin increased by 20 basis points to 10.6% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 10.4% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The changes in operating margin are further explained in our reportable segment results discussed below.  

 Interest expense and other items: Interest expense and other items for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by $20 million, or 7%, compared to December 31, 2007 due to the reversal of $7 million of accrued interest during the 2008 second quarter in connection with the Litigation Gain. Lower interest rates on our outstanding variable rate debt also reduced interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007.  

 Effective income tax rate: The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by 50 basis points compared to the same period last year. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, the effective tax rate decreased by 90 basis points. The tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 included a reversal of previously accrued amounts of $18 million, or $0.15 per share, primarily related to the completion of examinations of the 2004 and 2005 U.S. Federal income tax returns, and certain state and foreign tax accruals. The reversal of previously accrued amounts during the year ended December 31, 2007 was $12 million, or $0.10 per share.  

 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and income from continuing operations: For the year ended December 31, 2008, diluted EPS from continuing operations increased to $7.56 per share compared to $5.98 per share for the year ended December 31, 2007. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased to $929 million compared to $756 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, income from continuing operations increased by $102 million, or 13%, to $858 million and EPS from continuing operations increased $1.00, or 17%, to $6.98.  

 Diluted earnings per share and net income: For the year ended December 31, 2008, diluted EPS increased to $7.72 per share and net income increased to $949 million, which includes a gain on the sale of METI of $33 million ($20 million after income taxes, or $0.16 per diluted share).  

 Diluted shares outstanding: Diluted shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by 3.6 million shares, compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease was primarily due to repurchases of our common stock in connection with our share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors, partially offset by additional shares issued in connection with various stock based compensation programs and contributions to employee savings plans made in common stock.  

 2007 Compared with 2006  

 Net sales: For the year ended December 31, 2007, consolidated net sales increased by 12% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Consolidated organic sales growth of 10%, or $1,193 million, was driven primarily by continued strong demand for ISR systems, government services, networked communications systems, aircraft and base support services, aircraft modernization and several specialized product areas, including power & control systems, electro-optic/infrared (EO/IR), undersea warfare, simulation & training and propulsion systems. The increase in consolidated net sales from acquired businesses was $291 million, or 2%. Sales from services increased by $845 million to $7,389 million, representing approximately 53% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $6,544 million, or 52% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase in service sales was primarily due to organic sales growth in government services, ISR systems, aircraft and base support services and aircraft  

 45   
 modernization. Sales from products increased by $639 million to $6,572 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $5,933 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase in product sales was primarily due to organic sales growth in several product areas in the Specialized Products reportable segment. See the reportable segment discussions below for more analysis of our sales growth.  

 Operating income and operating margin: For the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006, consolidated operating income increased by $337 million, and consolidated operating margin increased to 10.4% from 8.9%. Excluding the Q2 2006 Charges, consolidated operating income increased by $169 million, or 13%, for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $1,279 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, and consolidated operating margin increased by 10 basis points from 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2006. The changes in operating margin are further explained in our reportable segment results discussed below.  

 Interest expense and other items: Interest expense and other items for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased by $12 million, or 4%, compared to December 31, 2006, primarily due to interest income on higher cash balances.  

 Effective income tax rate: The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007 of 35.6% included a benefit of $12 million, or $0.10 per share for the reversal of previously accrued amounts, primarily interest, related to the 2002 and 2003 U.S. Federal income tax returns, and without these benefits, the tax rate was 36.6%. Before giving effect to the Q2 2006 Charges, the tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 was 36.6%.  

 Diluted earnings per share and net income: For the year ended December 31, 2007, diluted EPS increased to $5.98 per share compared to $4.22 per share for the year ended December 31, 2006. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased to $756 million compared to $526 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Excluding the Q2 2006 Charges, diluted EPS for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by $0.93, or 18%, compared to $5.05 per share for the year ended December 31, 2006. Similarly, net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by $126 million, or 20%, from $630 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

 Diluted shares outstanding: Diluted shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by 1.7 million shares, compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily due to additional shares issued in connection with various stock based compensation programs and contributions to employee savings plans made in common stock. These increases were partially offset by repurchases of our common stock in connection with our share repurchase programs.  

 46   
 Reportable Segment Results of Operations  

 The table below presents selected data by reportable segment reconciled to consolidated totals. See Note 21 to our audited consolidated financial statements for our reportable segment data.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 47   
 C3ISR  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 2008 Compared with 2007  

 For the year ended December 31, 2008, C3ISR net sales increased by 11% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 driven by higher sales volume of $257 million primarily for continued demand and new contracts from the DoD for airborne ISR and networked communications systems for manned and unmanned platforms.  

 C3ISR operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 8% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Operating margin decreased by 20 basis points. Higher costs for international airborne ISR systems reduced operating margin by 140 basis points. This decrease was partially offset by higher sales volume for airborne ISR systems and networked communications systems for the DoD and lower development costs for new secure communications products.  

 2007 Compared with 2006  

 For the year ended December 31, 2007, C3ISR net sales increased by 14% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006, driven by higher sales volume of $226 million primarily for airborne surveillance and ISR systems, and continued strong demand from the DoD for networked communications systems. These increases were partially offset by $5 million for lower sales volume for Secure Terminal Equipment (STE), a product with declining demand as it continues to approach full deployment in the marketplace. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses was $64 million, or 3%.  

 C3ISR operating income for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by 7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily because of higher sales volume, partially offset by a lower operating margin. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased by 70 basis points of which 80 basis points were primarily due to higher development costs for new secure communications products and a decrease in higher margin STE sales. Acquired businesses reduced operating margin by 10 basis points. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of 20 basis points primarily due to higher sales volume and improved contract performance for networked communications systems.  

 Government Services  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 2008 Compared with 2007  

 For the year ended December 31, 2008, Government Services net sales decreased by 1% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. A decline in sales of $319 million for linguist services was partially offset by an increase in sales of $224 million primarily for IT and software engineering solution services, training and other support services to the DoD. Total linguist-Iraq sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $399 million. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses, net of divestitures, was $64 million, or 1%.  

 48   
 Government Services operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 4% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 50 basis points. Operating margin increased by 10 basis points because of a decline in lower margin linguist sales. Higher sales for business areas other than linguist services and lower indirect costs as a percentage of sales increased operating margin by 80 basis points. These increases were partially offset by (1) 20 basis points due to lower sale prices on certain new contracts and (2) 20 basis points due to a $4 million litigation accrual for costs to settle a claim and $4 million for severance and other costs related to business realignment and consolidation activities.  

 2007 Compared with 2006  

 For the year ended December 31, 2007, Government Services net sales increased by 13% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006, driven primarily by (1) volume increases of $327 million on existing contracts and recent new business awards for several services including linguists and translators, training and operational support for the U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as broader U.S. national security objectives on a global basis and (2) higher sales of $166 million for information technology solutions to support U.S. Army communications and surveillance activities and support services for the U.S. Special Operations Command because of growth on existing contracts. The Linguist Contract generated sales of $738 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, an increase of $127 million compared with $611 million for 2006. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses was $6 million.  

 Government Services operating income increased by 18% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 due to higher sales volume and higher operating margin. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by 40 basis points due to higher sales volume, lower overhead costs as a percentage of sales, and improved contract performance, partially offset by higher sales volume on the Linguist Contract.  

 Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M)  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 2008 Compared with 2007  

 For the year ended December 31, 2008, AM&M net sales increased by 5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in sales volume was primarily driven by $115 million higher base and aircraft support services and $118 million for the Joint Cargo Aircraft (JCA) program. These increases were partially offset by lower sales volume of $44 million for the Canadian Maritime Helicopter program and lower aircraft modernization sales of $59 million for international customers and head-of-state aircraft for foreign government customers.  

 AM&M operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by 2% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased by 70 basis points. The year ended December 31, 2008 included $10 million of litigation accruals for costs to settle certain claims, which reduced operating margin by 30 basis points. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 also declined by another 110 basis points due to a change in sales mix, primarily sales volume for JCA and lower international sales. These decreases were partially offset by 70 basis points because of improved contract performance.  

 49   
 2007 Compared with 2006  

 For the year ended December 31, 2007, AM&M net sales increased by 9% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006, driven by increased volume of (1) $104 million for aircraft and base support services related to continued support of U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, partially offset by lower sales volume due to a loss of a contract in June 2006 to provide maintenance and support for U.S. Navy fixed-wing training aircraft and (2) $34 million for aircraft modernization, primarily to modify C-130 aircraft for international customers, U.S. Presidential helicopter and head-of-state aircraft for foreign government customers. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses was $62 million, or 3%.  

 AM&M operating income for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by 6% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily because of higher sales volume, partially offset by lower operating margin. Operating margin decreased by 20 basis points primarily due to lower incentive fees on a contract related to a reduction in the annual contractual target costs.  

 Specialized Products  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 2008 Compared with 2007  

 For the year ended December 31, 2008, Specialized Products net sales increased by 12% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 reflecting higher sales volume of (1) $118 million for power & control systems mostly for commercial shipbuilding, and power generation, distribution, conditioning and conversion products primarily for the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy, (2) $86 million for microwave products due to higher demand and deliveries of mobile satellite communications systems, satellite and space components, and communication services primarily to the DoD, (3) $65 million primarily for combat propulsion systems due to new and existing contracts, aviation products primarily related to spare parts for the U.S. military and data recorders for aviation and maritime markets, and acoustic undersea warfare products and ocean mapping related to new and existing contracts, (4) $56 million for precision engagement primarily related to new contracts and increased shipments on existing contracts for situational awareness systems and fuzing products, (5) $54 million for EO/IR products primarily due to increased demand and deliveries from new and existing contracts, and (6) $41 million for simulation & training primarily related to new contracts and timing of deliveries on existing contracts. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $36 million for displays primarily due to timing of contractual deliveries and contracts completed or nearing completion. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses, net of divestitures, was $201 million, or 4%.  

 Specialized Products operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 14% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The year ended December 31, 2008 included a gain of $12 million for the Product Line Divestiture Gain and a non-cash Impairment Charge of $28 million. Excluding these two items, operating income was $661.1 million and operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 increased 50 basis points to 12.3%. Operating margin increased by 70 basis points due to improved contract performance and higher sales across several business areas. These increases were partially offset by 10 basis points due to a $6 million litigation accrual for costs to settle a claim and 10 basis points because of a $7 million gain in the 2007 third quarter from the settlement of a third party claim that did not recur.  

 2007 Compared with 2006  

 For the year ended December 31, 2007, Specialized Products net sales increased by 12% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006, reflecting higher sales volume of (1) $138 million for EO/IR and undersea  

 50   
 warfare products, simulation devices and advanced mine detection systems, primarily related to new contracts, (2) $118 million for power & control systems due to recent new business awards to provide marine control systems and products to foreign allied navies, higher volume for commercial shipbuilding, power conversion and switching products, and service life extensions for landing craft air cushion amphibious vehicles, (3) $60 million primarily due to higher volumes for precision engagement, telemetry & advanced technology, and aviation products on existing contracts, and (4) $24 million for combat vehicle propulsion systems for U.S. military reset and replacement of equipment consumed in the U.S. military operations in Iraq. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses was $159 million, or 4%.  

 Specialized Products operating income for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by 16% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006, due to higher sales volume and higher operating margin. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by 40 basis points. Improved contract performance and higher sales in several business areas including EO/IR products, display systems and precision engagement, increased operating margin by 70 basis points. A smaller gain on a settlement of a claim of $7 million during 2007, compared to an unrelated gain from a settlement of a claim against a third party of $12 million during 2006, reduced operating margin by 10 basis points. Additionally, lower margins from acquired businesses reduced operating margin by 20 basis points.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Anticipated Sources of Cash Flow  

 Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow generated from operations. We also have funds of $940 million available to use under our revolving credit facility, after reductions of $60 million for outstanding letters of credit, subject to certain conditions, as of December 31, 2008. Our revolving credit facility matures on March 9, 2010. We intend to enter into a new revolving credit facility at or before that time. Notwithstanding the current challenging credit market conditions, we currently believe that our cash from operating activities together with our cash on hand at December 31, 2008 ($867 million) will be adequate to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, defined benefit plan contributions, commitments, contingencies, research and development expenditures, contingent purchase price payments on previous business acquisitions, program and other discretionary investments, interest payments, income tax payments, L-3 Holdings’ dividends and share repurchase program for the foreseeable future. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow at current levels, and it is possible that currently anticipated improvements may not be achieved. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may be required to reduce costs and expenses, sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing and we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments or to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense industry and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control. Our first scheduled maturity of our principal amount of outstanding debt is our $650 million term loan facility, which matures on March 9, 2010. Our intention is to refinance all or a portion of the $650 million term loan facility borrowings, if we are able to do so, on terms that are acceptable to us. If such terms are not available to us, we intend to repay the term loan facility with cash on hand. Our remaining principal amount of outstanding debt matures between June 15, 2012 and August 1, 2035. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Contractual Obligations” on page 56.  

 Balance Sheet  

 Billed receivables decreased by $53 million to $1,226 million at December 31, 2008 from $1,279 million at December 31, 2007 primarily due to (1) collections primarily for ISR systems and government services, (2) the divestiture of METI on October 8, 2008, and (3) foreign currency translation adjustments. These decreases were partially offset by $34 million of acquired billed receivable balances from business acquisitions.  

 51   
 Contracts in process increased by $168 million to $2,267 million at December 31, 2008, from $2,099 million at December 31, 2007. The increase included $16 million of acquired contracts-in-process balances for business acquisitions and $162 million from:  

    •   Increases of $138 million in unbilled contract receivables primarily due to sales exceeding billings for ISR systems, command and control systems and software services, aircraft modernization, training services, and intelligence solutions. These increases were partially offset by lower sales for linguist services; and   

    •   Increases of $24 million in inventoried contract costs across several business areas to support customer demand.    

 These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $10 million primarily due to foreign currency translation adjustments.  

 L-3’s receivables days sales outstanding (DSO) was 69 at December 31, 2008, compared with 72 at December 31, 2007. We calculate our DSO by dividing (1) our aggregate end of period billed receivables and net unbilled contract receivables, by (2) our trailing 12 month sales adjusted, on a pro forma basis, to include sales from business acquisitions and exclude sales from business divestitures that we completed as of the end of the period, multiplied by the number of calendar days in the trailing 12 month period (366 days at December 31, 2008 and 365 days at December 31, 2007). Our trailing 12 month pro forma sales were $14,976 million at December 31, 2008 and $14,042 million at December 31, 2007.  

 The increase in inventories was primarily for commercial shipbuilding customers due to timing of deliveries and to support demand.  

 The increase in net property, plant and equipment (PP&E) during the year ended December 31, 2008 was principally due to capital expenditures and completed business acquisitions, partially offset by depreciation expense. The percentage of depreciation expense to average gross PP&E was 10.2% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 11.2% for the year ended December 31, 2007. We did not change any of the depreciation methods or assets estimated useful lives that L-3 uses to calculate its depreciation expense.  

 Goodwill decreased by $136 million to $8,029 million at December 31, 2008 from $8,165 million at December 31, 2007. The table below presents the changes in goodwill allocated to our reportable segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   For further discussion regarding the completion of IRS audits of L-3’s U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2004 and 2005, including income tax positions taken in connection with certain business acquisitions, see Note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements.   

  (2)   The decrease in goodwill from foreign currency translation adjustments is due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar during 2008 against the functional currencies of L-3’s foreign subsidiaries, primarily in Canada, Germany and the United Kingdom.    

 The increase of $199 million related to business acquisitions was comprised of: (1) an increase of $187 million for business acquisitions completed and an additional ownership interest acquired during the year ended December 31, 2008, (2) an increase of $10 million for earnouts related to certain business acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2008, and (3) an increase of $5 million primarily related to final purchase price determinations for certain business acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2008. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $3 million related to the completion of the final estimate of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for certain business acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2008.  

 52   
 The increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses were primarily due to increased purchases of materials, components and services required for the increase in sales during the year ended December 31, 2008, and to the timing of payments and invoices received for purchases from third-party vendors and subcontractors. The increase in accrued employment costs was due to the timing of payroll dates for salaries, wages and bonuses. The increase in advance payments and billings in excess of costs incurred was primarily due to advance payments received on contracts for ISR systems, power & control systems for commercial shipbuilding customers and government services. Other current liabilities decreased primarily due to the reversal of a current liability in connection with the Litigation Gain. Non-current deferred income tax liabilities decreased primarily due to pension plan actuarial losses experienced in 2008 that were caused by the negative actual pension plan assets return for 2008.  

 Pension Plans  

 L-3 maintains defined benefit pension plans covering employees at certain of its businesses. At December 31, 2008, L-3’s projected benefit obligation, which includes accumulated benefits plus the incremental benefits attributable to projected future salary increases for covered employees, was $1,722 million and exceeded the fair value of L-3’s pension plan assets of $1,064 million by $658 million. At the end of 2007, L-3’s projected benefit obligation was $1,688 million and exceeded the fair value of L-3’s pension plan assets of $1,407 million by $281 million. At December 31, 2008, our unfunded status increased by $377 million from $281 million at December 31, 2007. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $449 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss due to net actuarial losses experienced in 2008 and (2) pension expenses of $87 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. These increases were partially offset by employer pension contributions of $162 million.  

 The increase of $449 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss was principally due to the actuarial loss that we experienced in 2008 as a result of a decline in the fair value of our pension plan assets. Recent declines in equity and fixed income financial markets and diminished liquidity and diminished credit availability have negatively affected the 2008 actual return on our pension plan assets. L-3’s actual return on plan assets for the year ended December 31, 2008, was a loss of $394 million, or 28%, on the fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year. The actuarial gains and losses that our pension plans experience are not recognized in pension expense in the year incurred, but rather are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and amortized to pension expense in future periods over the estimated average remaining service periods of the covered employees. See Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Our pension expense for 2008 was $87 million. We currently expect pension expense for 2009 to be approximately $163 million. As discussed above, for the year ended December 31, 2008, L-3’s actual return on plan assets was a loss of $394 million, which is the primary reason that the amortization of net loss component of pension expense is expected to increase by approximately $45 million and the expected return on plan assets component of pension expense is expected to decrease by approximately $27 million for 2009. In addition, our actual pension expense for 2009 will be based upon a number of factors, including the effect of any future business acquisitions for which we assume liabilities for pension benefits, changes in headcount at our businesses that sponsor pension plans, actual pension plan contributions and changes (if any) to our pension assumptions for 2009, including the discount rate, expected long-term return on plan assets and salary increases.  

 Our contributions for the full year 2008 were $162 million, of which $100 million represented a pre-funding of contributions that were previously scheduled for 2009. We currently expect to contribute approximately $65 million to our pension plans in 2009. Actual 2009 pension contributions will be affected by L-3’s actual amount of net cash from operating activities for the year ending December 31, 2009, as well as the funded status of our pension plans during 2009. A substantial portion of our pension plan contributions for L-3’s businesses that are U.S. Government contractors are recoverable as allowable indirect contract costs at amounts generally equal to the annual pension contributions, except for pre-funded contributions, which are generally recoverable in the following year.  

 53   
 Our projected benefit obligation and annual pension expense are significantly affected by the discount rate assumption we use. For example, an additional reduction to the discount rate of 25 basis points would have increased our projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2008 by approximately $56 million, and our estimated pension expense for 2009 by approximately $8 million. Conversely, an increase to the discount rate of 25 basis points would have decreased our projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2008 by approximately $52 million, and our estimated pension expense for 2009 by approximately $7 million.  

 Statement of Cash Flows  

 The table below provides a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods indicated.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Operating Activities  

 2008 Compared with 2007. We generated $1,387 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of $117 million compared with $1,270 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase was due to (1) an increase in net income of $193 million, and (2) higher non-cash expenses of $64 million, primarily due to higher deferred income taxes and the non-cash Impairment Charge, partially offset by (3) $140 million of more cash used for changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily for other current liabilities (mainly the Litigation Gain) and income taxes. The net cash used from changes in operating assets and liabilities is further discussed above under “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Balance Sheet” on page 51.  

 2007 Compared with 2006. We generated $1,270 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2007, an increase of $196 million compared with $1,074 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily due to an increase in net income of $230 million, partially offset by a decrease of $41 million because of more cash used for changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily for contracts in process and other current liabilities.  

 Interest Payments. Our cash from operating activities includes interest payments on debt of $267 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $280 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and $287 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our interest expense also includes amortization of deferred debt issue costs and bond discounts and deferred gains on terminated interest rate swap agreements, which are non-cash items.  

 Investing Activities  

 During 2008, we used $283 million of cash in the aggregate to (1) acquire four businesses discussed under “Business Acquisitions”, (2) pay earnouts and the remaining contractual purchase price for certain business acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2008, and (3) increase our ownership interest in METI by 5% from 80% to 85%. We also used $218 million of cash for capital expenditures. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 included a $63 million source of cash in the aggregate from the sale of METI on October 8, 2008 and the sale of the PMD product line during the second quarter.  

 During 2007, we used $235 million of cash for business acquisitions. We paid $207 million in connection with our 2007 business acquisitions discussed under “Business Acquisitions.” We also paid $17 million for earnouts and $11 million primarily for the remaining contractual purchase prices, for the Crestview and TRL business acquisitions made prior to January 1, 2007. We also used $157 million for capital expenditures.  

 54   
 During 2006, we used $943 million of cash for business acquisitions. We paid $900 million in connection with our 2006 business acquisitions discussed above under “Business Acquisitions.” We also paid $21 million for the remaining contractual purchase price for the ASIT acquisition and $11 million for an additional 10% interest in the Army Fleet Support joint venture, which increased our total ownership interest to 90%. We also paid $10 million for earnouts and $25 million primarily for adjustments to the contractual purchase prices for certain business acquisitions. We received $24 million, in the aggregate, for reductions to the contractual purchase prices for the Aircraft Integration Systems (AIS), Marine Controls division of CAE (MAPPS) and The Titan Corporation (Titan) acquired businesses.  

 Financing Activities  

 Debt  

 Senior Credit Facility. Our senior credit facility provides for a term loan facility and a $1 billion revolving credit facility.  

 At December 31, 2008, borrowings under the term loan facility were $650 million, and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility were $940 million, after reduction for outstanding letters of credit of $60 million. There were no outstanding revolving credit borrowings under our senior credit facility at December 31, 2008. The senior credit facility matures on March 9, 2010. Our remaining outstanding debt matures between June 15, 2012 and August 1, 2035. Total outstanding debt was $4,538 million at December 31, 2008, compared to $4,537 million at December 31, 2007.  

 Debt Issuances. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, we did not issue any debt obligations. For additional details about the terms of our debt, see Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Credit Ratings. Our credit ratings as of February 2009 are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agency. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency’s rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency to rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims-paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to evaluate a company’s overall financial strength. The ratings issued on L-3 or its subsidiaries by any of these agencies are announced publicly and are available from the agencies. Our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted by a downgrade in one or more of our debt ratings. If this were to occur, we could incur higher borrowing costs.  

 Debt Covenants and Other Provisions. The senior credit facility and senior subordinated notes agreements contain financial covenants and other restrictive covenants. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a description of our debt and related financial covenants, including dividend payment and share repurchase restrictions and cross default provisions, under our senior credit facility. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with our financial and other restrictive covenants.  

 The borrowings under the senior credit facility are guaranteed by L-3 Holdings and by substantially all of the material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of L-3 Communications on a senior basis. The payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest on the senior subordinated notes are unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured senior subordinated basis, jointly and severally, by substantially all of L-3 Communications’ wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. The guarantees of the senior subordinated notes rank pari passu with one another and are junior to the guarantees of the senior credit facility. The payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest on the 3% Convertible Contingent Debt Securities CODES due 2035 are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured senior subordinated basis, jointly and severally, by certain  

 55   
 of L-3 Holdings’ wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. The guarantees of the CODES rank pari passu with all of the guarantees of the senior subordinated notes and are junior to the guarantees of the senior credit facility.  

 Equity  

 During 2008 and 2007, L-3 Holdings’ Board of Directors authorized the following quarterly cash dividends:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 On February 5, 2009, L-3 Holdings announced that its Board of Directors had increased L-3 Holdings’ regular quarterly cash dividend by 17% to $0.35 per share, payable on March 16, 2009, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 19, 2009.  

 On February 23, 2009, the closing price of L-3 Holdings common stock, as reported by the NYSE, was $72.35 per share and the number of holders of L-3 Holdings’ common stock was approximately 75,000.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2008, L-3 repurchased $794 million of its common stock compared to $500 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

 Contractual Obligations  

 The table below presents our estimated total contractual obligations at December 31, 2008, including the amounts expected to be paid or settled for each of the periods indicated below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 56   
  (1)   Represents principal amount of long-term debt and only includes scheduled principal payments.   

  (2)   The conversion feature of the CODES may require L-3 Holdings to settle the $700 million principal amount with the holders of the CODES if L-3 Holdings common stock price is more than 120% of the then current conversion price (currently $121.36) for a specified period (see Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements). L-3 Holdings stock price on February 23, 2009 was $72.35.   

  (3)   Represents expected interest payments on L-3’s long-term debt balance as of December 31, 2008 using the stated interest rate on our fixed rate debt and the variable interest rate in effect at December 31, 2008 on the outstanding borrowings under our term loan facility, assuming that current borrowings remain outstanding to the contractual maturity date.   

  (4)   Non-cancelable operating leases are presented net of estimated sublease rental income.   

  (5)   Represents open purchase orders at December 31, 2008 for amounts expected to be paid for goods or services that are legally binding.   

  (6)   Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of workers compensation and deferred compensation for the years ending December 31, 2010 and thereafter and also include pension and postretirement benefit plan contributions that we expect to pay in 2009.   

  (7)   Our pension and postretirement benefit plan funding policy is generally to contribute in accordance with cost accounting standards that affect government contractors, subject to the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereon. For 2009, we expect to contribute approximately $65 million to our pension plans and approximately $13 million to our postretirement benefit plans. Due to the current uncertainty of the amounts used to compute our expected pension and postretirement benefit plan funding, we believe it is not practicable to reasonably estimate such future funding for periods in excess of one year and we may decide or be required to contribute more than we expect to our pension and postretirement plans.   

  (8)   Excludes all income tax obligations, a portion of which represents unrecognized tax benefits in connection with uncertain tax positions taken, or expected to be taken on our income tax returns as of December 31, 2008 since we cannot determine the time period of future tax consequences. For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements.    

 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 The table below presents our estimated total contingent commitments and other guarantees at December 31, 2008, including the amounts expected to be paid or settled for each of the periods indicated below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Represents outstanding letters of credit with financial institutions covering performance and financial guarantees per contractual requirements with certain customers. These letters of credit may be drawn upon in the event of L-3’s nonperformance.   

  (2)   Represents the minimum guarantees made by L-3 or lessee (i) under the purchase option for certain operating leases in which the lease renewal is not exercised and (ii) for 50% of certain bank debt related to a joint venture arrangement (see Note 18 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a description of these guarantees).   

  (3)   Represents potential additional contingent purchase payments for business acquisitions that are contingent upon the post-acquisition financial performance or certain other performance conditions of the acquired businesses in accordance with the contractual purchase agreement.    

 For a discussion of the conversion and contingent interest features of our CODES, see Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  

 We are engaged in providing products and services under contracts with the U.S. Government and, to a lesser degree, under foreign government contracts, some of which are funded by the U.S. Government. All such contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements, and, periodically, agencies of the  

 57   
 U.S. Government investigate whether such contracts were and are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. Under U.S. Government procurement regulations, an indictment by a federal grand jury could result in the suspension for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts. A conviction could result in debarment from contracting with the federal government for a specified term. Additionally, in the event that U.S. Government budget and expenditures for products and services of the type we manufacture and provide are reduced, there may be a reduction in our sales volume. We are currently cooperating with the U.S. Government on several investigations, none of which we anticipate will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 We continually assess our obligations with respect to applicable environmental protection laws. While it is difficult to determine the timing and ultimate cost that we will incur to comply with these laws, based upon available internal and external assessments, with respect to those environmental loss contingencies of which we are aware, we believe that even without considering potential insurance recoveries, if any, there are no environmental loss contingencies that, in the aggregate, would be material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also, we have been periodically subject to litigation, government investigations, proceedings, claims or assessments and various contingent liabilities incidental to our business. We accrue for these contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For a description of our legal proceedings and contingencies, see Note 18 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Derivative Financial Instruments and Other Market Risk  

 Included in our derivative financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts. All of our derivative financial instruments that are sensitive to market risk are entered into for purposes other than trading.  

 Interest Rate Risk. The borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility and term loan facility contain variable interest only and are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The interest rates on the senior subordinated notes and CODES are fixed-rate and are not affected by changes in interest rates.  

 Additional data on our debt obligations and our applicable borrowing spreads included in the interest rates we pay on borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility are provided in Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our U.S. and foreign businesses enter into contracts with customers, subcontractors or vendors, and certain of these contracts are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our businesses. To protect the functional currency equivalent cash flows associated with certain of these contracts denominated in a foreign currency, we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts, which are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2008, the notional value of foreign currency forward contracts was $414 million and the fair value of these contracts was $1 million, which represented an asset. The notional values of our foreign currency forward contracts with maturities ranging through 2013 and thereafter are presented in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Backlog and Orders  

 We define funded backlog as the value of funded orders received from customers, less the cumulative amount of sales recognized on such orders. We define funded orders as the value of contract awards received from the U.S. Government, for which the U.S. Government has appropriated funds, plus the value of contract awards and orders received from customers other than the U.S. Government. The table below presents our funded backlog; percent of funded backlog at December 31, 2008 expected to be recorded as sales in 2009 and funded orders for each of our reportable segments.  

 58   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contract awards including those pertaining to multi-year, cost-plus reimbursable contracts, which are generally funded on an annual basis. Funded backlog also excludes the sales value of unexercised priced contract options that may be exercised by customers under existing contracts and the sales value of purchase orders that we may receive under indefinite quantity contracts or basic ordering agreements.  

 Accounting Standards Issued and Not Yet Implemented  

 For a discussion of accounting standards issued and not yet implemented, see Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Inflation  

 The effect of inflation on our sales and earnings has not been significant. Although a majority of our sales are made under long-term contracts (revenue arrangements), the selling prices of such contracts, established for deliveries in the future, generally reflect estimated costs to be incurred in these future periods. In addition, some of our contracts provide for price adjustments through cost escalation clauses.  

 Forward-Looking Statements  

 Certain of the matters discussed concerning our operations, cash flows, financial position, economic performance and financial condition, including in particular, the likelihood of our success in developing and expanding our business and the realization of sales from backlog, include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act.  

 Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that these statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, including projections of total sales growth, sales growth from business acquisitions, organic sales growth, consolidated operating margins, total segment operating margins, interest expense earnings, cash flow, research and development costs, working capital, capital expenditures and other projections, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties, and therefore, it is possible that these statements may not be achieved. Such statements will also be influenced by factors which include, among other things:  

    •   our dependence on the defense industry and the business risks peculiar to that industry, including changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget;   

    •   our reliance on contracts with a limited number of agencies of, or contractors to, the U.S. Government and the possibility of termination of government contracts by unilateral government action or for failure to perform;    

 59   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 60   
    •   Titan’s compliance with its plea agreement and consent to entry of judgment with the U.S. Government relating to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), including Titan’s ability to maintain its export licenses as well as the outcome of other FCPA matters;   

    •   ultimate resolution of contingent matters, claims and investigations relating to acquired businesses, and the impact on the final purchase price allocations;   

    •   significant increase in competitive pressure among companies in our industry; and   

    •   the fair values of our assets, including identifiable intangible assets and the estimated fair value of the goodwill balances for our reporting units, which can be impaired or reduced by other factors, some of which are discussed above.    

 In addition, for a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impair our results of operations or financial condition, see “Part I — Item 1A — Risk Factors” and Note 18 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Readers of this document are cautioned that our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results or developments may differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements.  

 As for the forward-looking statements that relate to future financial results and other projections, actual results will be different due to the inherent uncertainties of estimates, forecasts and projections and may be better or worse than projected and such differences could be material. Given these uncertainties, you should not place any reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements also represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to these forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this filing to reflect events or changes or circumstances or changes in expectations or the occurrence of anticipated events.  

  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk