Item 1.    Business    

 Overview  

 L-3 Holdings, a Delaware corporation organized in April 1997, derives all of its operating income and cash flows from its wholly-owned subsidiary, L-3 Communications. L-3 Communications, a Delaware corporation, was organized in April 1997. L-3 is a prime system contractor in aircraft modernization and maintenance, Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C3ISR) systems, and government services. L-3 is also a leading provider of high technology products, subsystems and systems. Our customers include the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and its prime contractors, U.S. Government intelligence agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Department of State (DoS), U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ), allied foreign governments, domestic and international commercial customers and select other U.S. federal, state and local government agencies.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2008, we generated sales of $14.9 billion, operating income of $1,685 million and net cash from operating activities of $1,387 million. The table below presents a summary of our 2008 sales by major category of end customer. For a more detailed presentation of our sales by end customer, see “Major Customers” on page 12.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We have the following four reportable segments: (1) C3ISR, (2) Government Services, (3) Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M), and (4) Specialized Products. Financial information for our reportable segments, including financial information about geographic areas, is included in “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 21 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Business Strategy  

 Our business strategy is customer-focused and aims to increase shareholder value by providing products and services to our customers that create value for them with responsive, high-quality and affordable solutions. Financially, our emphasis is on sustainably growing earnings per share and cash flow. Our strategy involves a flexible and balanced combination of organic growth, cost reductions, select business acquisitions and divestitures, dividends and share repurchases, enabling us to grow the company and return cash to our shareholders. We intend to maintain and expand our position as a leading supplier of products, subsystems, systems and services to the DoD, other U.S. Government agencies, allied foreign governments and commercial customers, both domestic and international. Our strategy includes the objectives discussed below.  

 Expand Prime Contractor and Supplier Positions. We intend to expand our prime system contractor roles in select business areas where we have domain expertise, including C3ISR, aircraft modernization and maintenance and government technical services. We also intend to enter into “teaming” arrangements with  

 1   
 other prime system contractors and platform original equipment manufacturers to compete for select new business opportunities. As an independent supplier of a broad range of products, subsystems and systems in several key business areas, our growth will partially be driven by expanding our share on existing programs and participating on new programs. We also expect to identify opportunities to use our customer relationships and leverage the capabilities of our various businesses, including proprietary technologies, to expand the scope of our products and services to existing and new customers. We also intend to continue to supplement our growth by participating on and competing for new programs internationally, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia.  

 Grow Sales Organically and Selectively Acquire Businesses. We intend to use our existing prime contractor and supplier positions and internal investments to grow our sales organically. We expect to benefit from our positions as a supplier to multiple bidders on select prime contract bids. We plan to maintain our diversified and broad business mix with its limited reliance on any single contract and significant follow-on and new business opportunities. We also expect to continue to supplement our organic sales growth by selectively acquiring businesses that add new products, services, technologies, programs or customers to our existing businesses, and provide attractive returns on investment.  

 Favorably Perform on Contracts. We believe that favorable performance on our existing contracts is the foundation for successfully meeting our objectives of expanding L-3’s prime contractor and supplier positions and growing sales organically. We believe that a prerequisite for growing and winning new business is to retain our existing business with successful contract performance, including schedule, cost, technical and other performance criteria. Therefore, we will continue to focus on delivering superior contract performance to our customers to maintain our reputation as an agile and responsive contractor and to differentiate L-3 from its competitors.  

 Continuously Improve our Cost Structure. We intend to continue to aggressively improve and reduce our direct contract costs and overhead costs, including general and administrative costs. Effective management of labor, material, subcontractor and other direct costs is a primary element of favorable contract performance. We also intend to grow sales at a faster rate than overhead costs. We believe continuous cost improvement will enable us to increase our cost competitiveness, expand operating margin and selectively invest in new product development, bids and proposals and other business development activities to organically grow sales.  

 Align Research & Development, and Capital Expenditures. We intend to continue to align our internal investments in research and development, business development and capital expenditures to proactively address customer requirements and priorities with our products, services and solutions. We also intend to grow our sales through the introduction of new products and services and continued increased collaboration between our businesses to offer the best quality and competitive solutions and services to our customers.  

 Selected Recent Business Acquisitions and Business and Product Line Dispositions  

 During the year ended December 31, 2008, we used cash of $283 million for business acquisitions and generated cash of $63 million from business and product line dispositions. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Acquisitions and Business and Product Line Dispositions” on page 36 for additional details about our 2008 business acquisitions, including their aggregate purchase prices, and our 2008 business and product line dispositions.  

 Products and Services  

 Our four reportable segments provide a wide range of products and services to various customers and are described below.  

 2   
 C3ISR Reportable Segment  

 In 2008, C3ISR net sales of $2,567 million represented 17% of our total net sales. The businesses in this segment provide products and services for the global ISR market, specializing in signals intelligence (SIGINT) and communications intelligence (COMINT) systems. These products and services provide to the warfighter in real-time, the unique ability to collect and analyze unknown electronic signals from command centers, communication nodes and air defense systems for real-time situational awareness and response. The businesses in this reportable segment also provide C3 systems, networked communications systems and secure communications products for military and other U.S. Government and foreign government intelligence, reconnaissance and surveillance applications. We believe that these products and services are critical elements for a substantial number of major command, control and communication, intelligence gathering and space systems. These products and services are used to connect a variety of airborne, space, ground and sea-based communication systems and are used in the transmission, processing, recording, monitoring, and dissemination functions of these communication systems. Major products and services for this reportable segment include:  

    •   highly specialized fleet management sustainment and support, including procurement, systems integration, sensor development, modifications and periodic depot maintenance for SIGINT and ISR special mission aircraft and airborne surveillance systems;   

    •   strategic and tactical SIGINT systems that detect, collect, identify, analyze and disseminate information;   

    •   secure data links that enable real-time information collection and dissemination to users of networked communications for airborne, satellite, ground and sea-based remote platforms, both manned and unmanned;   

    •   secure terminal and communication network equipment and encryption management; and   

    •   communication systems for surface and undersea vessels and manned space flights.    

 3   
 The table below provides additional information for the systems, products and services, selected applications and selected platforms or end users of our C3ISR reportable segment.  

  Systems/Products/Services     Selected Applications     Selected Platforms/End Users   

   ISR Systems            

   • Prime mission systems integration, sensor development and operations and support       • Signal processing, airborne SIGINT applications, antenna technology, real-time process control and software development       • U.S. Air Force (USAF), United Kingdom (U.K.) Ministry of Defence (MoD) and other allied foreign militaries ISR aircraft platforms    

   • Fleet management of special mission aircraft, including avionics and mission system upgrades and logistics support       • Measurement collection and signal intelligence, special missions       • DoD and special customers within the U.S. Government    

   • ISR operations and support       • Data link support and services, special applications, classified projects, spares and repairs       • USAF and U.S. Army ISR aircraft platforms    

   Networked Communications            

   • Airborne, space and surface data link terminals, ground stations, and transportable tactical SATCOM (satellite communications) systems       • High performance, wideband secure communication links for relaying of intelligence and reconnaissance information       • Manned aircraft, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), naval ships, ground vehicles and satellites for the DoD    

   • Multi-band Manpack Receivers       • Portable, ruggedized terminals used for receiving reconnaissance video and sensor data from multiple airborne platforms       • U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), USAF and other DoD customers    

   • Satellite command and control sustainment and support       • Software integration, test and maintenance support, satellite control network and engineering support for satellite launch systems       • USAF Space Command (AFSC), USAF Satellite Control Network and launch ranges    

   Secure Communications Products            

   • Secure communication terminals and equipment, and secure network encryption products       • Secure and non-secure voice, data and video communication for office, battlefield and secure internet protocol (IP) network applications       • DoD and U.S. Government intelligence agencies    

   • Ground-based satellite communication terminals and payloads       • Interoperable, transportable ground terminals       • DoD and U.S. Government intelligence agencies    

   • Satellite communication and tracking systems       • On-board satellite external communications, video systems, solid state recorders and ground support equipment       • International Space Station, Space Shuttle and various satellites for National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)    

   • Shipboard communications systems       • Internal and external communications (radio rooms)       • U.S. Navy (USN), U.S. Coast Guard and allied foreign navies

 4   
 Government Services Reportable Segment  

 In 2008, Government Services net sales of $4,303 million represented 29% of our total net sales. The businesses in this segment provide a full range of engineering, technical, information technology (IT), advisory, training and support services to the DoD, DoS, DoJ and U.S. Government intelligence agencies and allied foreign governments. Major services for this reportable segment include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The table below provides additional information for the systems, products and services, selected applications and selected platforms or end users of our Government Services reportable segment.  

  Systems/Products/Services     Selected Applications     Selected Platforms/End Users   

   Training and Operational Support        

   • Training systems, courseware and doctrine development       • Training, leadership development and education services for U.S. and allied foreign armed forces, counterintelligence and law enforcement personnel       • U.S. Army, U.S. Marine Corps (USMC), DoS, DoJ and allied foreign governments    

   • Acquisition management and staff augmentation       • Rapid fielding support for combatants and physical location management       • U.S. Army    

   • Weapons Training Systems       • Laser marksmanship training systems and advanced integrated technologies for security products and services       • DoD and law enforcement agencies      

 5   
  Systems/Products/Services     Selected Applications     Selected Platforms/End Users   

   • Specialized management, policy and training in energy, environmental and natural resource management       • Water and Coastal resource management, sustainable agriculture and food security, climate change mitigation strategies, emergency preparedness, response and reconstruction, power sector restructuring and energy economics and finance       • U.S. Agency for International Development, foreign governments, World bank and Non-Governmental Organizations    

   Enterprise IT Solutions            

   • Network and enterprise administration and management       • Systems engineering, assurance and risk management, network and systems administration, management, software development and life cycle support and systems integration       • U.S. Army, U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, USAF, USSOCOM, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and NASA    

   • Systems acquisition and advisory support and comprehensive operational support services       • Requirements definition, program management, planning and analysis, systems engineering, integration and development, intelligence analysis and managing and network engineering       • U.S. Army, USAF, USN and DHS    

   Intelligence Solutions and Support            

   • System support and concept operations (CONOPS)       • C3ISR, modeling and simulation       • DoD, U.S. Missile Defense Agency (MDA), U.S. Government intelligence agencies, and NASA    

   • IT services       • IT infrastructure modernization and operations       • U.S. Government intelligence agencies and U.K. MoD    

   • Information management and IT systems support and software design, development and systems integration       • Intelligence and operations support, C3 systems, network centric operations and information operations       • DoD and U.S. Government intelligence agencies    

   • Linguistic, interpretation, translation and analyst services       • Counterintelligence, threat protection and counter terrorism       • U.S. Army

 6   
  Systems/Products/Services     Selected Applications     Selected Platforms/End Users   

   Command & Control Systems and Software        

   • Software engineering/software sustainment, operations analysis, research, technical analysis and test and evaluation       • Systems engineering and operational analysis of every aircraft and vessels in the USN fleet, C3 and Computers (C4) systems acquisitions, logistics and administrative support, as well as systems life cycle support       • U.S. Army, USN and USMC    

   • Communication systems and software engineering services       • Value-added, critical software support for C3ISR systems, electronic warfare and fire support systems       • U.S. Army Communications – Electronics Command (CECOM)    

   • Acquisition Support       • Support defense acquisition programs, develop acquisition roadmaps, capability assessments and develop requirements       • U.S. Army, USN and USMC    

   • Systems Engineering and Integration Support       • System design and development, platform simulations, systems testing, prototype development and deployment and hardware and software integration       • USMC, U.S. Army and, USSOCOM    

   Global Security & Engineering Solutions    

   • Surveillance systems and products, including installation and logistics support       • Remote surveillance for U.S. borders       • DHS    

   • Security Solutions       • Border security systems, area surveillance and access control, critical infrastructure protection, continuity planning and emergency management       • DHS, USMC and Customs and Border Patrol    

   • Engineering and technical solutions       • Systems engineering and design, analysis and integration, technical support and test & evaluation, Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) effects analysis and Improvised Explosive Device (IED) counter measures       • DoD and U.S. Government agencies    

   • Program management and operational support       • Command center operations, systems acquisitions, emergency management training, continuity of operations and government planning       • Federal Emergency Management Agency, FAA, Joint Task Force — Civil Support     

 7   
 Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M) Reportable Segment  

 In 2008, AM&M net sales of $2,657 million represented 18% of our total net sales. The businesses in this segment provide modernization, upgrades and sustainment, maintenance and logistics support services for military and various government aircraft and other platforms. We sell these services primarily to the DoD, the Canadian Department of National Defense (DND) and other allied foreign governments. Major products and services for this reportable segment include:  

    •   engineering, modification, maintenance, logistics and upgrades for aircraft, vehicles and personnel equipment;   

    •   turnkey aviation life cycle management services that integrate custom developed and commercial off-the-shelf products for various military fixed and rotary wing aircraft, including heavy maintenance and structural modifications and interior modifications and construction; and   

    •   aerospace and other technical services related to large fleet support, such as aircraft and vehicle modernization, maintenance, repair and overhaul, logistics, support and supply chain management, primarily for military training, tactical, cargo and utility aircraft, anti-missile defense systems and tanks.    

 The table below provides additional information for the systems, products and services, selected applications and selected platforms or end users of our AM&M reportable segment.  

  Systems/Products/Services     Selected Applications     Selected Platforms/End Users   

   Aircraft and Base Support Services            

   • Logistics support, maintenance and refurbishment       • Aircraft maintenance repair and overhaul, flight operations support for training, cargo and special mission aircraft       • U.S. Army, USAF, USN, USSOCOM, Canadian DND and other allied foreign militaries    

   • Contract Field Teams (CFT)       • Deployment of highly mobile, quick response field teams to customer locations to supplement the customer’s resources for various ground vehicles and aircraft       • U.S. Army, USAF, USN and USMC    

   • Contractor operated and managed base supply (COMBS)       • Inventory management activities relating to flight support and maintenance, including procurement and field distribution       • Military training and cargo aircraft    

   Aircraft Modernization            

   • Modernization and life extension maintenance upgrades and support       • Aircraft structural modifications and inspections, installation of mission equipment, navigation and avionics products       • USN, USAF, USSOCOM, Canadian DND, Royal Australian Air Force, other allied foreign governments, various military, fixed and rotary wing aircraft and Head of State aircraft

 8   
 Specialized Products Reportable Segment  

 In 2008, Specialized Products net sales of $5,374 million represented 36% of our total net sales. The businesses in this reportable segment provide a broad range of products, including components, products, subsystems, systems and related services to military and commercial customers in several niche markets. The table below provides a summary of the segment’s business areas and the percentage that each contributed to Specialized Products net sales in 2008.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 9   
 The table below provides additional information for the systems and products, selected applications and selected platforms or end users of our Specialized Products reportable segment.  

  Systems/Products         Selected Applications         Selected Platforms/End Users   

   Power & Control Systems                    

   • Shipboard electrical power packages, electric drives and propulsion, automation, navigation and communication systems      •     Surface ships ranging from shipping vessels, container carriers, environmental and research ships, ferries and cruise liners     •     Commercial shipbuilders and allied foreign navies   

   • Naval power delivery, conversion and switching products      •     Switching, distribution and protection, as well as frequency and voltage conversion     •     Naval submarines, surface ships and aircraft carriers   

   EO/IR                    

   • Targeted stabilized camera systems with integrated sensors and wireless communication systems      •     Intelligence Data Collection, Surveillance and Reconnaissance     •     DoD, intelligence and security agencies, law enforcement, manned/unmanned platforms   

   • Airborne and ground based high energy laser beam directors and high tracking rate telescopes      •     Directed energy systems, space surveillance, satellite laser ranging and laser communications     •     USAF and NASA   

   • Night Vision (NV) technology and electro-optical systems and products      •     Free-standing or mounted image intensified NV goggles, weapon sights, and driver viewers for special forces, pilots and aircrews, soldiers, Marines, sailors and law enforcement personnel     •     U.S. Army, USN, USMC, DHS, allied foreign militaries and law enforcement agencies   

   Microwave                    

   • Passive components, switches and wireless assemblies      •     Radio transmission, switching and conditioning, antenna and base station testing and monitoring     •     DoD, wireless communications service providers and original equipment manufacturers   

   • Satellite and wireless components (channel amplifiers, transceivers, converters, filters and multiplexers)      •     Satellite transponder control, channel and frequency separation     •     SATCOM and wireless communications equipment for DoD and various government agencies   

   • Traveling wave tubes, power modules, klystrons and digital broadcast      •     Microwave vacuum electron devices and power modules     •     DoD and allied foreign military manned/unmanned platforms, various missile programs and commercial broadcast   

   • Quick-deploy flyaway very small aperture terminals (VSAT) and vehicular satellite systems      •     Satellite communication systems     •     U.S. Army, USAF and various DoD customers   

   • Ultra-wide frequency and advanced radar antennas and radomes      •     Surveillance and radar detection     •     Military fixed and rotary winged aircraft, SATCOM   

   Avionics & Displays                    

   • Solid state crash protected cockpit voice and flight data recorders      •     Aircraft voice and flight data recorders that continuously record voice and sounds from cockpit and aircraft intercommunications     •     Commercial transport, business, regional and military aircraft   

   • Airborne traffic and collision avoidance systems, terrain awareness warning systems      •     Reduce the potential for midair aircraft collisions and crashes into terrain by providing visual and audible warnings and maneuvering instructions to pilots     •     Commercial transport, business, regional and military aircraft   

   • Advanced cockpit avionics      •     Pilot safety, navigation and situation awareness products     •     Commercial transport, business, regional and military aircraft   

   • Cockpit and mission displays      •     High performance, ruggedized flat panel and cathode ray tube displays and processors     •     Various military aircraft   

   Simulation & Training                    

   • Military aircraft flight simulators, reconfigurable training devices, distributed mission training (DMT) suites      •     Advanced simulation technologies and training for pilots, navigators, flight engineers, gunners and operators     •     Fixed and rotary winged aircraft and ground vehicles for USAF, USN, U.S. Army, Canadian DND and allied foreign militaries

 10   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Backlog and Orders  

 We define funded backlog as the value of funded orders received from customers, less the cumulative amount of sales recognized on such orders. We define funded orders as the value of contract awards received from the U.S. Government, for which the U.S. Government has appropriated funds, plus the value of contract  

 11   
 awards and orders received from customers other than the U.S. Government. A table that presents our funded backlog, percent of December 31, 2008 funded backlog expected to be recorded as sales in 2009 and funded orders for each of our reportable segments is located in “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Backlog and Orders” beginning on page 58.  

 Major Customers  

 The table below presents a summary of our 2008 sales by end customer and the percent contributed by each to our total 2008 sales. For additional information regarding domestic and foreign sales, see Note 21 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Approximately 73% of our DoD sales for 2008 were direct to the customer, and approximately 27% were indirect through other prime system contractors and subcontractors of the DoD.  

 Our sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime system contractors to, the U.S. Government. Various U.S. Government agencies and contracting entities exercise independent and individual purchasing decisions, subject to annual appropriations by the U.S. Congress. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our five largest contracts generated 12% of our consolidated sales. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our largest contract, the U.S. Air Force (USAF) Contract Field Teams (CFT) contract, generated 3% of our sales. CFT is a multi-sourced contract, which provides worldwide quick reaction maintenance of deployed aircraft and ground vehicles for the U.S. military.  

 Research and Development  

 We conduct research and development activities that consist of projects involving applied research, new product development and select concept studies. We employ scientific, engineering and other personnel to improve our existing product-lines and develop new products and technologies. As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 11,000 engineers, a substantial portion of whom hold advanced degrees, and work on company sponsored research and development efforts and customer funded research and development contracts.  

 Company-sponsored (Independent) research and development costs for our businesses that are U.S. Government contractors are allocated to U.S. Government contracts and are charged to cost of sales when the related sales are recognized as revenue. Research and development costs for our commercial businesses are expensed as incurred. The table below presents company-sponsored (Independent) research and development  

 12   
 expenses incurred for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 for our U.S. Government businesses and our commercial businesses.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Customer-funded research and development costs pursuant to contracts (revenue arrangements) are direct contract costs and are expensed when the corresponding revenue is recognized. See Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding research and development.  

 Competition  

 Our businesses generally encounter intense competition. We believe that we are a major provider for many of the products and services we offer to our DoD, government and commercial customers.  

 Our ability to compete for existing and new business depends on a variety of factors, including,  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In some instances, we are the incumbent supplier or have been the sole provider on a contract for many years, and we refer to these positions as “sole-source”. On our sole-source contracts, there may be other suppliers who have the capability to compete for the contracts involved, but they can only enter the market if the customer chooses to reopen the particular contract to competition. Sole-source contracts are generally re-competed every three to five years and at times more frequently. For the year ended December 31, 2008, contracts where we held sole-source positions accounted for 50% of our total sales and contracts which we had competitively won accounted for 50% of our total sales.  

 We believe we are the defense supplier with one of the broadest and most diverse product portfolios. We supply our products and services to other prime system contractors. However, we also compete directly with other large prime system contractors for (i) certain products and subsystems where they have vertically integrated businesses and (ii) niche areas where we are a prime system contractor. We also compete with numerous other aerospace, defense and government technical services contractors, which generally provide similar products, subsystems or services. We believe that a majority of our businesses enjoy the number one or number two competitive position in their market niches. We believe that the primary competitive factors for our businesses are technology, research and development capabilities, quality, cost, market position and past performance. However, some of these competitors are larger than we are and have more financial and other resources than we have.  

 In addition, our ability to compete for select contracts may require us to “team” with one or more of the other prime system contractors that bid and compete for major platform programs, and our ability to “team” with them is often dependent upon the outcome of a competition for subcontracts they award.  

 13   
 Patents and Licenses  

 Generally, we do not believe that our patents, trademarks and licenses are material to our operations. Furthermore, most of our U.S. Government contracts generally permit us to use patents owned by other U.S. Government contractors. Similar provisions in U.S. Government contracts awarded to other companies make it impossible for us to prevent the use of our patents in most DoD work performed by other companies for the U.S. Government.  

 Raw Materials  

 Generally, our businesses engage in limited manufacturing activities. In manufacturing our products, we use our own production capabilities as well as a diverse base of third party suppliers and subcontractors. Although aspects of certain of our businesses require relatively scarce raw materials, we have not experienced difficulty in our ability to procure raw materials, components, sub-assemblies and other supplies required in our manufacturing processes.  

 Contracts  

 A significant portion of our sales are derived from sole-source contracts as discussed above. We believe that our customers award sole-source contracts to the most capable supplier in terms of quality, responsiveness, design, engineering and program management competency and cost. However, as discussed above, we are increasingly competing against other prime system contractors for major subsystems business. As a consequence of our competitive position, for the year ended December 31, 2008, we won contract awards at a rate in excess of 61% on new competitive contracts that we bid on, and at a rate in excess of 95% on the number of contracts we rebid for when we were the incumbent supplier.  

 Generally, the sales price arrangements for our contracts are either fixed-price, cost-reimbursable or time-and-material type. Generally, a fixed-price type contract offers higher profit margin potential than a cost-reimbursable type or time-and-material type contract, which is commensurate with the greater levels of risk we assume on a fixed-price type contract. Our operating margins (pretax operating income as a percentage of sales) on fixed-price type contracts generally range between 10% and 15%, while on cost-reimbursable type contracts they generally range between 5% and 10%, and on time-and-material type contracts they generally range between 8% and 12%.  

 On a fixed-price type contract (revenue arrangement), we agree to perform the contractual statement of work for a predetermined sales price. Although a fixed-price type contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract. Accounting for the sales on a fixed-price type contract requires the preparation of estimates of (1) the total contract revenue, (2) the total costs at completion, which is equal to the sum of the actual incurred costs to date on the contract and the estimated costs to complete the contract’s statement of work, and (3) the measurement of progress towards completion. Adjustments to original estimates for a contract’s revenue, estimated costs at completion and estimated total profit or loss are often required as work progresses under a contract, as experience is gained and as more information is obtained, even though the scope of work required under the contract may not change.  

 On a cost-reimbursable type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract’s fee arrangement up to predetermined funding levels determined by our customers. Cost-reimbursable type contracts with award and incentive fee provisions are our primary variable contract fee arrangement. Award fees provide for a fee based on actual performance relative to contractually specified performance criteria. Incentive fees provide for a fee based on the relationship which total allowable costs bear to target cost. Sales from cost-reimbursable type contracts with award fees were approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. Sales from cost-reimbursable type contracts with incentive fees were approximately $589 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

 14   
 On a time-and-material type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid on the basis of direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly rates (that include wages, overhead, allowable general and administrative expenses and profit) and materials at cost. Therefore, on cost-reimbursable type and time-and-material type contracts we do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the predetermined funded amounts. Our customer satisfaction and performance record is evidenced by our receipt of performance-based award fees achieving 92% of the available award fees on average during the year ended December 31, 2008.  

 We believe we have a favorable balance of fixed-price, cost-reimbursable and time and material type contracts, a significant sole-source follow-on business and an attractive customer profile with limited reliance on any single contract.  

 The table below presents the percentage of our total sales generated from each contract-type.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Substantially all of our cost-reimbursable type contracts and time-and-material type contracts are with U.S. Government customers. Substantially all of our sales to commercial customers are transacted under fixed-price sales arrangements and are included in our fixed-price contract sales.  

 Regulatory Environment  

 Most of our revenue arrangements with agencies of the U.S. Government, including the DoD, are subject to unique procurement and administrative rules. These rules are based on both laws and regulations, including the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), that: (1) impose various profit and cost controls, (2) regulate the allocations of costs, both direct and indirect, to contracts and (3) provide for the non-reimbursement of unallowable costs. Unallowable costs include, but are not limited to, lobbying expenses, interest expenses and certain costs related to business acquisitions, including, for example, the incremental depreciation and amortization expenses arising from fair value increases to the historical carrying values of acquired assets. Our contract administration and cost accounting policies and practices are also subject to oversight by government inspectors, technical specialists and auditors. See “Part I — Item 1A — Risk Factors” on page 17 for a discussion of certain additional business risks specific to our government contracts.  

 As is common in the U.S. defense industry, we are subject to business risks, including changes in the U.S. Government’s procurement policies (such as greater emphasis on competitive procurement), governmental appropriations, national defense policies or regulations, service modernization plans, and availability of funds. A reduction in expenditures by the U.S. Government for products and services of the type we manufacture and provide, lower margins resulting from increasingly competitive procurement policies, a reduction in the volume of contracts or subcontracts awarded to us or the incurrence of substantial contract cost overruns could materially adversely affect our business.  

 Certain of our sales are under foreign military sales (FMS) agreements directly between the U.S. Government and allied foreign governments. In such cases, because we serve only as the supplier, we do not have unilateral control over the terms of the agreements. These contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time to time, agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with these laws and regulations. Investigations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including repayments, disallowance of certain costs, or fines and penalties. Certain of our sales are direct commercial sales to allied foreign governments. These sales are subject to U.S. Government approval and licensing under the Arms Export Control Act. Legal restrictions on sales of sensitive U.S. technology also limit the extent to which we can sell our products to allied foreign governments or private parties.  

 15   
 Environmental Matters  

 Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations. We continually assess our obligations and compliance with respect to these requirements.  

 We have also assessed the risk of environmental contamination for our various manufacturing facilities, including our acquired businesses and, where appropriate, have obtained indemnification, either from the sellers of those acquired businesses or through pollution liability insurance. We believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance with all existing applicable environmental laws and permits. We believe our current expenditures will allow us to continue to be in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. While it is difficult to determine the timing and ultimate cost to be incurred in order to comply with these laws, based upon available internal and external assessments, with respect to those environmental loss contingencies of which we are aware, we believe that after considering recorded liabilities, there are no environmental loss contingencies that, individually or in the aggregate, would be material to our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  

 Certain Acquired Pension Plans  

 In connection with our acquisition of ten business units from Lockheed Martin and the formation of L-3 in 1997, we assumed certain defined benefit pension plan liabilities for present and former employees and retirees of certain of these businesses from Lockheed Martin. Lockheed Martin had previously received a letter from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), indicating that the pension plans of two businesses were under funded using the PBGC’s actuarial assumptions (Subject Plans).  

 With respect to the Subject Plans, Lockheed Martin entered into an agreement (Lockheed Martin Commitment) with L-3 and the PBGC dated as of April 30, 1997. The terms and conditions of the Lockheed Martin Commitment include a commitment by Lockheed Martin to the PBGC to, under certain circumstances, assume sponsorship of the Subject Plans or provide another form of financial support for the Subject Plans. The Lockheed Martin Commitment will continue until the Subject Plans are no longer under funded on a PBGC basis for two consecutive years, or immediately if we achieve investment grade credit ratings on all of our outstanding debt.  

 If Lockheed Martin did assume sponsorship of the Subject Plans, it would be primarily liable for the costs associated with funding the Subject Plans or any costs associated with the termination of the Subject Plans. The terms and conditions of the Lockheed Martin Commitment would require us to reimburse Lockheed Martin for these costs. Lockheed Martin has not assumed sponsorship or provided another form of financial support for the Subject Plans.  

 We believe we have performed our obligations under the Lockheed Martin Commitment and have not received any communications from the PBGC concerning actions that the PBGC contemplates taking in respect of the Subject Plans.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2008, we contributed $3 million to the Subject Plans. For subsequent years, our funding requirements will depend upon prevailing interest rates, return on pension plan assets and underlying actuarial assumptions. At December 31, 2008, the aggregate projected benefit obligation was $245 million and the aggregate plan assets were $144 million for the Subject Plans. At December 31, 2008, we have recorded a liability of $101 million for the under funded status of the Subject Plans.  

 Employees  

 As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 65,000 full-time and part-time employees, 84% of whom were located in the United States. Of these employees, approximately 15% are covered by 123 separate collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. The success of our business is primarily dependent upon the knowledge of our employees and on the management, contracting, engineering and technical skills of our employees. In addition, our ability to grow our businesses, obtain additional orders for our products and services and to satisfy contractual obligations under certain of our existing revenue  

 16   
 arrangements is largely dependent upon our ability to attract and retain employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly those with clearances of top-secret and above. We believe that relations with our employees are positive.  

 L-3 Holdings Obligations  

 The only obligations of L-3 Holdings at December 31, 2008 were: (1) its 3% Convertible Contingent Debt Securities (CODES) due 2035, which were issued by L-3 Holdings on July 29, 2005, (2) its guarantee of borrowings under the senior credit facility of L-3 Communications and (3) its guarantee of other contractual obligations of L-3 Communications and its subsidiaries. L-3 Holdings’ obligations relating to the CODES have been jointly, severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed by L-3 Communications and certain of its wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. In order to generate the funds necessary to repurchase common stock and pay dividends declared and principal and interest on its outstanding indebtedness, if any, L-3 Holdings relies on dividends and other payments from its subsidiaries or it must raise funds in public or private equity or debt offerings.  

 Available Information  

 We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, in accordance therewith, file reports, including annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information can be inspected and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such material can be obtained from the Public Reference Room of the SEC at prescribed rates. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Such material may also be accessed electronically by means of the SEC’s home page on the Internet at http://www.sec.gov.  

 You may also obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with the SEC through our website on the Internet at http://www.L-3com.com.  

 The Company also has a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for the audit, compensation and nominating/corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors through our Web site, http://www.L-3com.com, by clicking on the “Corporate Governance” link under the heading “Investor Relations.” The Company posts its Code of Ethics and Business Conduct on its Corporate Governance webpage under the link “Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.” The Company’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including our chairman, president and chief executive officer, our vice president and chief financial officer, and our corporate controller and principal accounting officer. We will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (“NYSE”), on our Web site within the required periods. The information on the Company’s Web site is not incorporated by reference into this report. You can request a copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct or any other corporate governance document or periodic report at no cost by contacting (866) INFO-LLL (866-463-6555).  

 To learn more about L-3, please visit the Company’s Web site at www.L-3com.com. L-3 uses its Web site as a channel of distribution of material Company information. Financial and other material information regarding L-3 is routinely posted on the Company’s Web site and is readily accessible.   

 Item 1A. Risk Factors