PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Overview  

Wynn Resorts, Limited, a Nevada corporation, was formed in June 2002 and completed an initial public offering of its common stock on October 25, 2002. The Company, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen A. Wynn, is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts. We own and operate two destination casino resorts: “Wynn Las Vegas,” on the “Strip” in Las Vegas, Nevada, and “Wynn Macau,” located in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China (“Macau”). We are also currently constructing “Encore Suites at Wynn Las Vegas” or “Encore” and Wynn Diamond Suites at Wynn Macau. We review our results based on the following segments: Wynn Las Vegas, which includes Encore, and Wynn Macau. For more information on the financial results for our segments, see Item 8 “Financial Statements”, Note 19 “Segment Information”.  

Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to “Wynn Resorts,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our,” or similar terms, refer to Wynn Resorts, Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

Wynn Resorts has previously filed registration statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Any document Wynn Resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC’s internet site address at http://www.sec.gov. Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com, Wynn Resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party SEC filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. Information found on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Our Resorts  

Wynn Las Vegas  

Wynn Las Vegas opened on April 28, 2005. The resort’s accommodations, amenities and exceptional service have allowed us to attract and retain high quality customers. Wynn Las Vegas offers 2,716 rooms and suites, including 36 fairway villas and 6 private-entry villas for our premium guests. The Tower Suites at Wynn Las Vegas is the only casino resort in the world to receive both the Mobil five star and AAA five diamond distinctions. In addition, Wynn Las Vegas was recognized in November 2007 by Michelin, the esteemed European restaurant rating system. Three of our restaurants were awarded Michelin stars. Two Michelin stars were awarded to Alex and one Michelin star was awarded to each of Wing Lei and Daniel Boulud Brasserie. Additionally, our resort received five red pavilions, the highest honor for Michelin rated accommodations. The approximately 111,000 square foot casino features approximately 140 table games, a baccarat salon, private VIP gaming rooms, a poker room, approximately 1,970 slot machines, and a race and sports book. The resort’s 22 food and beverage outlets feature six fine dining restaurants, including restaurants helmed by award winning chefs. Wynn Las Vegas also offers two nightclubs, a spa and salon, a Ferrari and Maserati automobile dealership, wedding chapels, an 18-hole golf course, approximately 223,000 square feet of meeting space and an approximately 74,000 square foot retail promenade featuring boutiques from Alexander McQueen, Brioni, Cartier, Chanel, Dior, Graff, Louis Vuitton, Manolo Blahnik, Oscar de la Renta and Vertu. Wynn Las Vegas also has two showrooms. The “Le Rêve” Theater features “Le Rêve,” a water-based production. The Broadway Theater hosts “Monty Python’s Spamalot,” winner of the 2005 Tony Award for best musical. Performances of Spamalot commenced in the first quarter of 2007. We believe that the unique experience of Wynn Las Vegas drives the significant visitation experienced since opening. During the year ended December 31, 2007, our average occupancy was 96% and our average daily room rate was $300, which compares favorably to the overall 90.4% average occupancy and $132 average daily room rate of Las Vegas.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Wynn Macau  

Wynn Macau opened on September 6, 2006. Wynn Macau currently features approximately 600 hotel rooms and suites, approximately 380 table games and approximately 1,270 slot machines in approximately 205,000 square feet of casino gaming space, five restaurants, a spa and salon, lounges, meeting facilities and approximately 46,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from Bvlgari, Chanel, Dior, Dunhill, Fendi, Ferrari, Giorgio Armani, Hermes, Hugo Boss, Louis Vuitton, Piaget, Prada, Rolex, Tiffany, Van Cleef & Arpels, Versace, Vertu and Zegna. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we completed our expansion of Wynn Macau which added approximately 75,000 square feet of gaming space to the property that opened in late 2006, and 20,000 square feet of retail space including 11 new boutiques. In addition to the gaming and retail facilities that opened in the expansion noted above, in December 2007 Wynn Macau opened its rotunda area which features a gold “prosperity tree” in conjunction with a Chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling show incorporating a descending chandelier. During the year ended December 31, 2007, our hotel occupancy at Wynn Macau was 88.8% and our average daily room rate was $251.  

Construction and Development  

Wynn Las Vegas  

In the ordinary course of our business and in order to increase revenues, we have made and continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to Wynn Las Vegas. Since opening in April 2005, we have remodeled the Fairway Villas, Corsa Cucina, the property’s contemporary Italian restaurant, Tryst and Blush, our nightclubs, several areas of the retail promenade, a portion of the baccarat area to feature a casino bar and improved public baccarat space along with private baccarat salons and converted the Keno lounge to a retail outlet for women’s accessories. In March 2007, we remodeled the Le Rêve Theater, decreasing the seat count from 2,087 to 1,606 to further enhance the guest experience. We have incurred and will continue to incur capital expenditures related to these types of enhancements and refinements at Wynn Las Vegas.  

Encore at Wynn Las Vegas  

We are constructing Encore on approximately 20 acres on the Strip, immediately adjacent to Wynn Las Vegas. Plans for Encore include a 2,034 all-suite hotel tower fully integrated with Wynn Las Vegas, as well as an approximately 72,000 square foot casino, additional convention and meeting space, as well as restaurants, a nightclub, swimming pools, a spa and salon and retail outlets. We commenced construction of Encore in the second quarter of 2006 and expect to open Encore in December 2008.  

Our project budget is approximately $2.2 billion, consisting of approximately $2.1 billion for Encore and approximately $100 million for an employee parking garage on our Koval property, an associated pedestrian bridge and costs incurred in connection with the remodeling of the Broadway Theater and production of “Monty Python’s Spamalot” at Wynn Las Vegas. The project budget will be funded from our existing Wynn Las Vegas credit facilities, remaining proceeds from a debt issuance in November 2007 and operating cash flow from Wynn Las Vegas. To the extent additional funds are required, we will provide these amounts with additional debt and equity contributions by Wynn Resorts or additional indebtedness to be incurred by Wynn Las Vegas. As of December 31, 2007, we had incurred approximately $998.7 million project costs related to the development and construction of Encore and related capital improvements.  

Wynn Macau  

Wynn Macau opened on September 6, 2006. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we completed an expansion of Wynn Macau that includes approximately 75,000 square feet of additional gaming space, a dramatic front feature attraction as described above, and additional food, beverage and retail amenities. In addition, we have commenced construction of Wynn Diamond Suites, a further expansion of Wynn Macau. Wynn Diamond Suites will add a fully-integrated resort hotel to Wynn Macau with approximately 400 luxury suites and four   

3  

Table of Contents 

 villas along with restaurants, additional retail space and additional VIP gaming space. While the completed project budget is still being finalized, we expect total costs to be approximately $600 million. We expect Wynn Diamond Suites to open in the first half of 2010. The project budget will be funded from our existing Wynn Macau credit facilities and cash flow from Wynn Macau. Wynn Macau and its recently opened expansion were completed at a cost of approximately $1.1 billion. As of December 31, 2007, we had incurred approximately $53 million related to the Wynn Diamond Suites.  

In the ordinary course of our business, in response to market demands and customer preferences and in order to increase revenues, we have made and continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to Wynn Macau. We have incurred and will continue to incur capital expenditures related to these enhancements and refinements.  

Other Development Opportunities  

We have submitted an application to the government of Macau for a concession of land in Cotai. We have reconfigured our site plan for 52 acres and are awaiting final approval. We are actively engaged in the design of our Cotai project. We continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in Las Vegas, other markets in the United States, and worldwide.  

Our Strategy  

Capitalize on the “Wynn” Brand. We believe Steve Wynn is the preeminent designer, developer and operator of destination casino resorts and, as such, has developed brand name status. Mr. Wynn’s involvement with our casino resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. We integrate luxurious surroundings, distinctive entertainment and superior amenities, including fine dining and premium retail offerings, to create resorts that appeal to a variety of customers, especially high-end customers. We believe that Wynn Las Vegas sets a new standard of luxury and elegance for destination casino resorts. We also believe that Mr. Wynn’s reputation and the new standard of luxury and elegance brought to the industry by Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau translate to a high level of anticipation for Encore at Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Diamond Suites. We intend to extend our “Wynn” brand to other domestic and international opportunities as they arise.  

Attract and Deliver High-quality Service and Amenities to High-end Gaming Customers. Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau were designed and built to attract premium gaming customers. Wynn Las Vegas offers luxurious rooms and suites, high-limit tables, VIP gaming salons, exquisite fine dining, premium retail shopping, distinctive entertainment and an 18-hole golf course. The Tower Suites at Wynn Las Vegas is the only casino resort in the world to have been awarded both the Mobil five star and AAA five diamond distinctions and four of Wynn Las Vegas’ restaurants have been recognized by AAA (including our AAA rated, 5-Diamond French restaurant, Alex) and Michelin, the esteemed European restaurant rating system. Three of our restaurants were awarded Michelin stars. Two Michelin stars were awarded to Alex and one Michelin star was awarded to each of Wing Lei and Daniel Boulud Brasserie. Overall our resort and country club received five red pavilions, the highest Michelin accommodations rating. Our hotel and gaming offerings are designed to meet the expectations of high-budget, premium customers, including our Asian customers. We expect our Asian customer segment to become even more significant with Wynn Macau, and intend to capitalize on cross-marketing opportunities between Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau.  

Marketing. We have positioned Wynn Las Vegas as a full-service luxury resort and casino in the leisure, convention and tour and travel markets. We market Wynn Las Vegas directly to gaming customers using database marketing techniques, as well as traditional incentives, including reduced room rates and complimentary meals and suites. We offer high-roller gaming customers premium suites and special hotel services, and have a guest loyalty program that integrates all gaming, hotel, food, beverage and retail revenue generated by a particular guest and compares it against incurred expenses to determine the profitability of that guest. Our rewards system offers discounted and complimentary meals, lodging and entertainment for our guests. We also use our integrated database to target specific customers for promotions that might induce them to visit Wynn Las Vegas.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Mr. Wynn and our marketing team have developed a substantial network of long-standing international and domestic premium customers. Mr. Wynn’s reputation has attracted experienced, high-level international and domestic casino marketing executives to work for us. We have marketing executives located in local offices in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, Taiwan, Vancouver and southern California, as well as independent marketing representatives in major U.S. and foreign cities.  

We also create general market awareness for Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau through various media channels, including television, radio, newspapers, magazines, the internet, direct mail and billboards.  

Capitalize on our Opportunity in Macau. The government of Macau has made a major commitment to ensure that Macau becomes a tourist destination of choice in Asia by encouraging significant investment in new and expanded casino entertainment facilities to enhance its reputation as a casino resort destination and to attract additional tourists and lengthen stays. The Chinese government continues to gradually relax its travel and currency restrictions, allowing mainland Chinese from certain urban centers and economically developed areas to visit Macau without joining a tour group and increasing the amount of currency that Chinese citizens are permitted to bring into Macau. We expect tourism in Macau to continue to grow as the Chinese government continues to liberalize restrictions on travel and currency movements.  

Gaming customers from Hong Kong, southeast China, Taiwan and other locations in Asia can reach Macau in a relatively short period of time, and visitors from more distant locations in Asia can take advantage of short travel times by air to Macau or to Hong Kong. The relatively easy access from major population centers positions Macau as a popular gaming destination in Asia.  

We utilized our brand and significant experience in Las Vegas in providing a Steve Wynn-designed property on our 16-acre site located in Macau’s inner harbor area across from the Hotel Lisboa, Macau’s best-known casino. Our concession provides us with the ability to develop an unlimited number of casino resorts with Macau government approval, which adds significant value to our Macau opportunity.  

Las Vegas Real Estate Assets. Wynn Las Vegas is located on approximately 55 acres on the famed Las Vegas Strip. Our property is located between the approximately 3.2 million square feet of convention space operated by the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority and the Palazzo and Venetian Casino Resort and their approximately 1.8 million square foot Sands Expo Center; diagonally across from the Mirage and the Treasure Island Hotel and Casino; directly across from the Fashion Show Mall and Trump Towers; and across from Echelon and The Plaza, which are currently under development. Encore is being constructed on 20 acres of land adjacent to Wynn Las Vegas. We also have an approximately 142-acre parcel of land behind Wynn Las Vegas, which is currently used as a golf course. In addition, we have approximately 5 acres adjacent to the golf course on which an office building is located and approximately 18 acres of land across Sands Avenue, a portion of which is improved with an employee parking garage.  

We are developing a long-range master plan for the 142-acre golf course. It is not expected that any construction on the golf course land would begin before 2009.  

Experienced Management Team. Mr. Wynn and his team bring significant experience in designing, developing and operating casino resorts. Mr. Wynn and many members of the current senior management team were responsible for the design, development and operation of The Mirage, Treasure Island at The Mirage, and Bellagio. The senior executive team has an average of approximately 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. We also have an approximately 100-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience in all major construction disciplines.  

Opportunities for Future Growth. We are continually looking for new opportunities for gaming and related businesses in Las Vegas and Macau, as well as other domestic and international markets through acquisition, investment or development.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Market and Competition  

Las Vegas  

Las Vegas is the largest gaming market in the United States and is also one of the fastest growing leisure, lodging and entertainment markets in the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Las Vegas gaming and hotel markets continued their upward trends with, among other things, a 0.7% increase in visitation to 39.2 million visitors, a 2.3% increase in Las Vegas Strip gaming revenue and a 10.3% increase in average daily room rates, all as compared to the year ended December 2006.  

Many properties on the Las Vegas Strip have opened over the past ten years, including the Bellagio, Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino, Paris Las Vegas, Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino (formerly known as the Aladdin), The Venetian and The Palazzo. In addition, a number of existing properties on the Las Vegas Strip embarked on expansions during this period, including Bellagio, Luxor Hotel and Casino, Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino and Caesars Palace. As a result, the casino/hotel industry in Las Vegas is highly competitive. Wynn Las Vegas is located on the Las Vegas Strip and competes with these and other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos, those in downtown Las Vegas, as well as a large number of hotels in and near Las Vegas.  

Many competing properties, such as the Bellagio, Caesars Palace, Luxor Hotel and Casino, Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino, The Mirage, New York-New York Hotel and Casino, Paris Las Vegas, Treasure Island at The Mirage, The Venetian, The Palazzo and others, have themes and attractions which draw a significant number of visitors and directly compete with our operations. We seek to differentiate Wynn Las Vegas from other major Las Vegas resorts by concentrating on our fundamental elements of design, atmosphere, personal service and luxury.  

Wynn Las Vegas also competes, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and Atlantic City, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on Native American lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries, and other forms of gaming. The continued proliferation of Native American gaming in California could have a negative impact on our operations. In particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. In addition, new or renovated casinos in Macau or elsewhere in Asia could draw Asian gaming customers, including high-rollers, away from Las Vegas.  

In addition to the existing casinos with which Wynn Las Vegas currently competes, several new multi-billion dollar resorts are expected to open on or near the Las Vegas Strip before 2011. The major projects, which have either been announced or are currently under construction include, but are not limited to:  

   •    Echelon Place—A development by Boyd Gaming located north of Wynn Las Vegas on the Strip.  

   •    City Center—a development by the MGM Mirage Dubai World 50/50 joint venture located south of Wynn Las Vegas on the Strip.  

   •    Fontainebleau Las Vegas—A development by Fontainebleau Resorts located north of Wynn Las Vegas on the Strip.  

   •    The Plaza, Las Vegas—A development by the Elad Group located across the street from Wynn Las Vegas on the Strip.  

Macau  

Macau, which was a Portuguese colony for approximately 450 years, was transferred in December 1999 from Portuguese to Chinese political control. Macau is a special administrative region of China located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and less than one hour away via ferry from, Hong Kong and has been a casino destination for more than 40 years. Macau consists principally of a peninsula on mainland China, and two neighboring islands, Taipa and Coloane, connected by bridges. We believe that Macau is positioned in one of the   

6  

Table of Contents 

 world’s largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. According to Macau Statistical Information, casinos in Macau generated approximately $10.3 billion in gaming revenue in 2007, a 47% increase over the $6.98 billion generated in 2006, making Macau the largest gaming market in the world.  

Macau’s gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. According to the Macau Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, approximately 27 million people visited Macau in 2007, an increase of approximately 23% over the 22 million visitors of 2006. From 1999 through 2007, less than one-half of visitors traveling to Macau stayed overnight in hotels and guestrooms and, for those who stayed overnight in hotels and guestrooms, the average length of stay was only one to two nights. We expect the average length of stay to increase as a result of new, upscale hotel resort accommodations in Macau, including Wynn Macau.  

Gaming customers traveling to Macau typically come from nearby destinations in Asia including Hong Kong, mainland China, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan. According to the Macau Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, approximately 91% of the tourists who visited Macau in 2007 came from mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Macau completed construction of an international airport in 1995, which accommodates large commercial aircraft and provides direct air service to major cities in Asia, including Beijing, Shanghai, Taipei, Manila, Singapore and Bangkok.  

Prior to 2002, gaming in Macau was permitted as a government-sanctioned monopoly concession awarded to a single concessionaire. However, under the authority of the Chief Executive and the Casino Tender Commission of Macau, the government of Macau liberalized the gaming industry in 2002 by granting concessions to operate casinos to three concessionaires, who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of Macau, to each grant one sub-concession to other gaming operators.  

Currently, there are 29 operating casinos in Macau. In addition, there are several large casino resorts currently under construction and development.  

Sociedade de Jogos de Macau (“SJM”) operates 19 of the 29 casinos. SJM is controlled by Stanley Ho, who through another entity, controlled the monopoly concession to conduct gaming operations in Macau for more than 40 years. Most of SJM’s casinos are relatively small facilities, which are offered as amenities in hotels; however, a few are substantial operations. Two of the larger casinos in Macau are operated by SJM: the Hotel Lisboa and The Grand Lisboa. In addition, an affiliate of Mr. Ho owns most of the water ferry services and the helicopter shuttle service that link Macau to Hong Kong.  

A joint venture of MGM MIRAGE and Pansy Ho Chiu-king (Stanley Ho’s daughter) opened the MGM Grand Macau, a resort on the Macau peninsula adjacent to Wynn Macau, in December 2007. At opening, the property included a 600 room hotel, several restaurants as well as other attractions, approximately 375 table games and approximately 900 slot machines.  

Galaxy Casino Company Limited, referred to herein as Galaxy, also was awarded a casino concession in June 2002. Galaxy is a company controlled by Hong Kong businessman Lui Chi-woo and a group of Hong Kong investors. Galaxy opened the Waldo Hotel/Casino on the peninsula in 2004, the Grand Waldo Cotai in the summer of 2006, and Galaxy Star World hotel casino immediately adjacent to Wynn Macau in October 2006.  

Las Vegas Sands Corp., the owner and operator of The Venetian and The Palazzo resorts in Las Vegas and a former partner of Galaxy, has entered into a sub-concession agreement with Galaxy which allows it to independently develop and operate casinos in Macau.  

The Sands Macao opened in 2004, and offers approximately 632 table games and approximately 1,457 slot machines. In August 2007, Las Vegas Sands Corp. opened the Venetian Macao Resort Hotel, a 3,000 suite hotel, casino and convention center complex, with retail, dining and entertainment, all with a Venetian-style theme similar to that of its Las Vegas property. At opening, the Venetian Macao offered approximately 870 table games   

7  

Table of Contents 

 and more than 3,400 slot machines. In addition, Las Vegas Sands Corp. has proposed a masterplan for other large developments in Cotai that would include: additional hotel properties (including Four Seasons, Sheraton, Hilton and others) as well as serviced apartment units and additional retail and related space.  

A joint venture consisting of Melco, a Hong Kong stock exchange-listed company and Publishing & Broadcasting Ltd. (PBL), an Australian company, is currently operating the Crown Macau (which opened in May 2007) and is constructing the City of Dreams, a large resort in Cotai, which is anticipated to open in 2009. This joint venture operates its properties under the subconcession purchased from us.  

The Macao Studio City project, a joint venture consisting of Hong Kong-based eSun Holdings and New Cotai, LLC, is currently under construction and expected to open in mid 2009. The Macao Studio City is being developed in Cotai and is expected to feature a theater, television and film production facilities, retail, gaming, entertainment and world-class hotels. Macao Studio City’s casino is expected to be managed by PBL Melco.  

Our casino concession agreement allows the government to grant additional concessions for the operation of casinos after April 1, 2009. If the government of Macau awards additional concessions or permits additional sub-concessionaires, Wynn Macau will face increased competition from casino operators in Macau.  

Wynn Macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of Asia, such as Genting Highlands Resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and casinos in the Philippines. Two large-scale casinos that are being developed currently in Singapore will add further competition to the region. Wynn Macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including Australia and Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia.  

Regulation and Licensing  

The gaming industry is highly regulated. Gaming registrations, licenses and approvals, once obtained, can be suspended or revoked for a variety of reasons. We cannot assure you that we will obtain all required registrations, licenses and approvals on a timely basis or at all, or that, once obtained, the registrations, findings of suitability, licenses and approvals will not be suspended, conditioned, limited or revoked. If we ever are prohibited from operating one of our gaming facilities, we would, to the extent permitted by law, seek to recover our investment by selling the property affected, but we cannot assure you that we would recover its full value.  

Nevada  

Introduction. The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations made under the Act, as well as to various local ordinances. Wynn Las Vegas’ operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board, which we refer to herein collectively as the “Nevada Gaming Authorities.”  

Policy Concerns of Gaming Laws. The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. These public policy concerns include, among other things:  

   •    preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity;  

   •    establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures;  

   •    maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs, and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities;  

8  

Table of Contents 

   •    preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and,  

   •    providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees.  

Changes in these laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on Wynn Las Vegas’ gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations.  

Owner and Operator Licensing Requirements. Our subsidiary, Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, as the owner and operator of Wynn Las Vegas, has been approved by the Nevada Gaming Authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool and pari-mutuel wagering. These gaming licenses are not transferable. We cannot be certain that Wynn Las Vegas, LLC will be able to maintain all approvals and licenses from the Nevada Gaming Authorities.  

Company Registration Requirements. Wynn Resorts was found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Commission to own the equity interests of Wynn Resorts Holdings, LLC (“Wynn Resorts Holdings”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, and to be registered by the Nevada Gaming Commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the Nevada Gaming Control Act. Wynn Resorts Holdings was found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Commission to own the equity interests of Wynn Las Vegas, LLC and to be registered by the Nevada Gaming Commission as an intermediary company. In addition to being licensed, Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, as an issuer of First Mortgage Notes registered with the SEC, also qualified as a registered company. Wynn Las Vegas Capital Corp., a co-issuer of the First Mortgage Notes, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source.  

Periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Gaming Commission and provide any other information that the Nevada Gaming Commission may require. Substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, or approved by, the Nevada Gaming Commission.  

Individual Licensing Requirements. No person may become a stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. Certain of our officers, directors and key employees have been or may be required to file applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. All applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. However, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason, which they deem appropriate. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. An applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position.  

If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada.  

Redemption of Securities Owned By an Unsuitable Person. Wynn Resorts’ articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed   

9  

Table of Contents 

 necessary or advisable by the board of directors, Wynn Resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. The redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. If Wynn Resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. If the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on The Nasdaq National Market or SmallCap Market, or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and asked prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. Wynn Resorts’ right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable Gaming Authority and, if not, as Wynn Resorts elects.  

Consequences of Violating Gaming Laws. If the Nevada Gaming Commission decides that we have violated the Nevada Gaming Control Act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. In addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Gaming Control Act, or of the regulations of the Nevada Gaming Commission, at the discretion of the Nevada Gaming Commission. Further, the Nevada Gaming Commission could appoint a supervisor to operate Wynn Las Vegas and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor’s appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations.  

Requirements for Voting Securities Holders. Regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of Wynn Resorts’ voting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person’s suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the Nevada Gaming Commission has reason to believe that the ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the beneficial owner of the voting securities of Wynn Resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. The applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any investigation.  

The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the Nevada Gaming Commission. The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company’s voting securities to apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board mails the written notice requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an “institutional investor,” as defined in the Nevada Gaming Control Act, which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of the registered company’s voting securities may apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. In certain circumstances, an institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold up to 19% of a registered company’s voting securities for a limited period of time and maintain the waiver. An institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada Gaming Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company’s voting securities for investment purposes only. Activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include:  

   •    voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders;  

10  

Table of Contents 

   •    making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in its management, policies or operations; and,  

   •    other activities that the Nevada Gaming Commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent.  

The articles of incorporation of Wynn Resorts include provisions intended to help it implement the above restrictions.  

Wynn Resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada which may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. We are required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of Wynn Resorts’ voting securities. The Nevada Gaming Commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act. The certificates representing shares of Wynn Resorts’ common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in Wynn Resorts’ articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws.  

Consequences of Being Found Unsuitable. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Gaming Commission or by the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Gaming Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we:  

   •    pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities;  

   •    allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to Wynn Resorts;  

   •    pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or,  

   •    fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person’s voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value.  

Gaming Laws Relating to Debt Securities Ownership. The Nevada Gaming Commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the Nevada Gaming Commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the Nevada Gaming Commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission, it:  

   •    pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever;  

   •    recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities;  

   •    pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or,  

   •    makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Approval of Public Offerings. We may not make a public offering without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. On March 22, 2007, the Nevada Gaming Commission granted us and Wynn Las Vegas, LLC prior approval to make public offerings for a period of two years, subject to certain conditions (the “Shelf Approval”). The Shelf Approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us which is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. The Shelf Approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board. The Shelf Approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the Nevada Gaming Authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.  

Approval of Changes in Control. A registered company must obtain prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company.  

Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and Nevada Gaming Commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. The Nevada Gaming Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction.  

Approval of Defensive Tactics. The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming licenses or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of Nevada gaming licenses may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Gaming Commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming industry and to further Nevada’s policy to:  

   •    assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates;  

   •    preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and,  

   •    promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs.  

Approvals may be required from the Nevada Gaming Commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above their current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. The Nevada Gaming Control Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company’s board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control.  

Fees and Taxes. License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries’ respective operations are conducted. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon:  

   •    a percentage of the gross revenue received;  

   •    the number of gaming devices operated; or,  

   •    the number of table games operated.  

A live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges and sales of food, beverages and merchandise where live entertainment is furnished.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Foreign Gaming Investigations. Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered, or is under common control with those persons (collectively, “licensees”), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board of the licensee’s or registrant’s participation in such foreign gaming. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Nevada Gaming Commission. Licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada Gaming Control Act. A licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Gaming Commission if it:  

   •    knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation;  

   •    fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations;  

   •    engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada;  

   •    engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or,  

   •    employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of unsuitability.  

Licenses for Conduct of Gaming and Sale of Alcoholic Beverages. The conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at Wynn Las Vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board, which has granted Wynn Las Vegas licenses for such purposes. In addition to approving Wynn Las Vegas, the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. Clark County gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. The County has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. Any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations.  

Macau  

General. As a casino concessionaire, Wynn Macau, S.A. is subject to the regulatory control of the Government of Macau. The government has adopted Laws and Administrative Regulations governing the operation of casinos in Macau. Only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. Subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the Macau government and, to date, each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. Each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the Macau government which, together with the Law and Administrative Regulations, forms the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire.  

Under the Law and Administrative Regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire’s equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. The same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. Concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, to demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and to submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the Macau government. Concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. Transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the Macau government and are ineffective without government approval.  

13  

Table of Contents 

Each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of Macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. The appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the Macau government. All contracts placing the management of a concessionaire’s casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the Macau government.  

Concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. Concessionaires are obligated to withhold, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to games promoters. Such withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time.  

A games promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation, accommodations, provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. Macau law provides that games promoters representatives must be licensed by the Macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. For a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a games promoters (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. Applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. The term of a games promoters license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. Natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years.  

Under Macau law, licensed games promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. These contractors are subject to approval of the Macau government. Changes in the management structure of business entity games promoters licensees must be reported to the Macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. To conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the Macau government.  

Macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their games promoters for the activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaires’ casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Concessionaires must submit annual lists of their games promoters for the following year, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. The Macau government may designate a maximum number of games promoters and specify the number of games promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. Concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their games promoters representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity.  

The government of Macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. During any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. The government of Macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. The government of Macau also may terminate a concession for cause, including, without limitation, failure of the concessionaire to fulfill its obligations under law or the concession contract.  

Concession Agreement. The concession agreement between Wynn Macau S.A. and the Macau government requires Wynn Macau, S.A. to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in Macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of December 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion patacas (approximately US$500 million) in Macau-related projects by June 2009. This obligation was satisfied upon the opening of Wynn Macau.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Wynn Macau, S.A. was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700 million pataca (approximately US$87 million) bank guarantee from Banco National Ultramarino, S.A. (“BNU”) that was effective until March 31, 2007. The amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million patacas (approximately US$37 million) for the period from April 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. This guarantee, which is for the benefit of the Macau government, assures Wynn Macau, S.A.’s performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. Wynn Macau, S.A. is obligated, upon demand by BNU, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the Macau government. BNU is currently paid an annual fee by Wynn Macau, S.A. for the guarantee not to exceed 5.2 million patacas (approximately US$0.7 million).  

The government of Macau may redeem the concession beginning on June 24, 2017, and in such event Wynn Macau, S.A. will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the consession.  

The government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if Wynn Macau, S.A. fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. The concession agreement expressly provides that the government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if Wynn Macau, S.A.:  

   •    conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose;  

   •    abandons or suspends gaming operations in Macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification;  

   •    defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts;  

   •    does not comply with government inspections or supervision;  

   •    systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system;  

   •    fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government;  

   •    is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent;  

   •    engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or,  

   •    repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws.  

If the government of Macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, Wynn Macau, S.A. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under Macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of Wynn Macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. In addition, the government of Macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case Wynn Macau, S.A. would be entitled to reasonable compensation.  

Seasonality  

We may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not expect that our business will be unusually impacted by seasonality.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2007, we have a total of approximately 16,500 employees (including approximately 7,000 in Macau).  

During 2006, we entered into a collective bargaining agreement with the Culinary and Bartenders Union local covering approximately 4,500 employees at Wynn Las Vegas. In May 2007, the dealers at Wynn Las Vegas   

15  

Table of Contents 

 elected the Transportation Workers Union to represent them. We are currently negotiating a contract. Certain other unions may seek to organize the workers at Wynn Las Vegas. Unionization, pressure to unionize or other forms of collective bargaining could increase our labor costs.  

Intellectual Property   

Our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name “WYNN”. Wynn Resorts has filed applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”), to register a variety of the WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include “WYNN RESORTS”, “WYNN DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT”, “WYNN LAS VEGAS”, “ENCORE”, “WYNN MACAU”, and “WYNN DIAMOND”. Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future.  

A common element of these marks is the use of the surname, “WYNN”. As a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not registerable unless the surname has acquired “secondary meaning.” To date, Wynn Resorts has been successful in demonstrating to the PTO such secondary meaning for the Wynn name in certain of the applications based upon Mr. Wynn’s prominence as a resort developer.  

Federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. Third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations.  

We have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in Macau, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, certain European countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world to register a variety of WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include many of the same marks filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and include “WYNN MACAU”, “WYNN LAS VEGAS”, “ENCORE” and “WYNN DIAMOND”. Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future.  

We recognize that its intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of “WYNN”, are among its most valuable assets. As a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the United States, we have undertaken a program to register its trademarks and other intellectual property rights in all relevant jurisdictions, some of which may pose a risk of unauthorized use or counterfeiting. We have retained counsel and will take all steps necessary to not only acquire but protect its intellectual property rights against such unauthorized use throughout the world.  

On August 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with Mr. Wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the “Wynn” name and Mr. Wynn’s persona in connection with our casino resorts. Under a Surname Rights Agreement, Mr. Wynn has granted us an exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide license to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating, the “Wynn” name for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. Under a Rights of Publicity License, Mr. Wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until October 24, 2017.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements. Certain information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are forward-looking, including, but not limited to, statements relating to our business strategy and development activities as well as other capital spending, financing sources, the effects of regulation (including gaming and tax regulations), expectations concerning future operations, profitability and competition. Any statements contained   

16  

Table of Contents 

 in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking information involves important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated results in the future and, accordingly, such results may differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:  

   •    conditions precedent to funding under the agreements governing the disbursement of the proceeds of certain of our debt and equity offerings and borrowings under our credit facilities;  

   •    competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries;  

   •    completion of Encore on time and within budget;  

   •    completion of the Wynn Diamond Suites on time and within budget;  

   •    our intention to fund a substantial portion of the development and construction costs of Encore with anticipated cash flows generated at Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Diamond Suites with cash flow generated at Wynn Macau;  

   •    doing business in foreign locations such as Macau (including the risks associated with Macau’s developing gaming regulatory framework and travel-related visa restrictions);  

   •    new development and construction activities of competitors;  

   •    our dependence on Stephen A. Wynn and existing management;  

   •    our dependence on a limited number of properties for all of our cash flow;  

   •    leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates);  

   •    levels of travel, leisure and casino spending;  

   •    general domestic or international economic conditions;  

   •    pending or future legal proceedings;  

   •    changes in federal or state tax laws or the administration of such laws;  

   •    changes in gaming laws or regulations (including the legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions);  

   •    applications for licenses and approvals under applicable jurisdictional laws and regulations (including gaming laws and regulations);  

   •    the impact that an outbreak of an infectious disease, such as avian flu, or the impact of a natural disaster, such as the tsunami which struck southeast Asia in December 2004, may have on the travel and leisure industry; and,  

   •    the consequences of the war in Iraq and other military conflicts in the Middle East and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks.  

Further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information currently available to us. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.  

17  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS