ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.  

Interest Rate Risks  

One of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities.” We attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as considered necessary. We cannot assure you that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations.  

The following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at December 31, 2007 of our expected long-term indebtedness. However, we cannot predict the LIBOR or HIBOR rates that will be in effect in the future. Accordingly, the one-month LIBOR and HIBOR rates at December 31, 2007 of 4.60% and 3.25%, respectively are used for all variable rate calculations in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest Rate Swap Information  

We have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. We account for these swaps under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations.  

Wynn Las Vegas  

As of December 31, 2007, we have one interest rate swap arrangement to hedge the underlying interest rate risk on a total of $200 million of borrowings under the Wynn Las Vegas Term Loan, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.875%. Under this interest rate swap arrangement, we receive payments at a variable rate of LIBOR and pay a fixed rate of 3.793% on the $200 million notional amount which expires on December 31, 2008. Although this interest rate swap is highly effective economically in fixing the interest rate on borrowings under the Wynn Las Vegas Term Loan at approximately 5.7%, changes in the fair value of our interest rate swaps for each reporting period are, and will continue to be, recorded as an increase/decrease in swap fair value in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, as the swap does not qualify for hedge accounting.  

57  

Table of Contents 

Wynn Macau  

As of December 31, 2007, we have two interest rate swaps to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the Wynn Macau Term Loan. Under the first swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 4.84% on borrowings estimated to be incurred under the Wynn Macau Term Loan up to a maximum of approximately $198.2 million, in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable LIBOR at the time of payment. Under the second swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 4.77% on borrowings estimated to be incurred under the Wynn Macau Term Loan up to a maximum of approximately HK$1.1 billion (approximately US$140.3 million), in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable HIBOR at the time of payment. Both swap agreements expire on November 28, 2008.  

These interest rate swaps are expected to be highly effective in fixing the interest rate on 100% of the US dollar and 35% of the Hong Kong dollar borrowings under the Wynn Macau Term Loan at approximately 6.59% and 6.52%, respectively. However, changes in the fair values of these interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase/decrease in swap fair value in our Consolidated Statements of Operations as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting.  

Summary of Historical Fair Values  

The following table presents the historical asset or (liability) fair values as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, of our interest rate swap arrangements (amounts in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The fair value approximates the amount we would receive (pay) if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. Fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods.  

Other Interest Rate Swap Information  

The following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of December 31, 2007 and using estimated future LIBOR and HIBOR rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Interest Rate Sensitivity  

As of December 31, 2007, approximately 62% of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. Based on our borrowings as of December 31, 2007, an assumed 1% change in variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $13.5 million.  

Foreign Currency Risks  

The currency delineated in Wynn Macau’s concession agreement with the government of Macau is the Macau pataca. The Macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the Hong Kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in Macau. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca, and the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in Chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments.  

If the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca are not linked to the U.S. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. We also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level.  

Because many of Wynn Macau’s payment and expenditure obligations are in Macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable Macau pataca or Hong Kong dollar rate changes, Wynn Macau’s obligations, as denominated in U.S. dollars, would increase. In addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that Wynn Macau operates in Macau will be in Hong Kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar. Also, if any of our Macau-related entities incur U.S. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Macau pataca or the Hong Kong dollar, in relation to the U.S. dollar, could have adverse effects on Wynn Macau’s results of operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. We have not yet determined whether we will engage in hedging activities to protect against foreign currency risk.  

59  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA