ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

The following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially.  

Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness  

We are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing.  

We have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. As of December 31, 2007, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $3.5 billion. In addition our Wynn Las Vegas credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness in connection with potential expansion plans under certain circumstances in the future and both the Wynn Macau credit facilities and the Wynn Resorts term loan permit us to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example:  

   •    if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. These rights and remedies include rights to:  

   •    repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral,  

   •    initiate judicial foreclosure against us,  

   •    petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets, and  

   •    we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the Wynn Las Vegas operations to service and amortize our Wynn Las Vegas indebtedness and to pay construction costs of Encore, which will reduce the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;  

   •    we are dependent on certain amounts of cash flow from Wynn Macau to service the indebtedness associated with the Wynn Resorts term loan and Wynn Macau’s indebtedness, which reduces the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes at Wynn Macau;  

   •    we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition;  

   •    we may have a limited ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, to fund construction costs of Encore and Wynn Diamond Suites, satisfy working capital requirements, or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations;  

   •    under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase.  

   •    if we fail to pay our debts generally as they become due, unsecured creditors that we fail to pay may initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, subject to the requirements of the United States Bankruptcy Code, and such bankruptcy proceedings will delay or impact the repayment of our secured debt.  

Under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, in certain circumstances we will be permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured senior and subordinated indebtedness. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated.  

18  

Table of Contents 

The agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions.  

The agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The debt facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to:  

   •    pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity;  

   •    incur additional debt;  

   •    make investments;  

   •    create liens on assets to secure debt;  

   •    enter into transactions with affiliates;  

   •    issue stock of, or member’s interests in, subsidiaries;  

   •    enter into sale-leaseback transactions;  

   •    engage in other businesses;  

   •    merge or consolidate with another company;  

   •    transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets;  

   •    issue disqualified stock;  

   •    create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and,  

   •    designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries.  

The debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include minimum interest coverage and total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. Future indebtedness or other contracts could contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the existing debt facilities.  

Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.  

If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities.  

If Wynn Macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness or otherwise become unable to make certain payments or dividends to us which we in turn use to service the Wynn Resorts term loan indebtedness, our ability to service the indebtedness of one or both of Wynn Macau or Wynn Resorts would be negatively impacted.  

Our subsidiaries’ indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets.  

Subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our subsidiaries’ debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries. In the event of a default by any of   

19  

Table of Contents 

 our subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if certain of our subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our subsidiaries’ secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our subsidiaries’ unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets.  

Risks Related to our Business  

A downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations.  

Our business operations are affected by international, national and local economic conditions. A recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of customers for our property, could result in fewer customers visiting, or customers spending less at our properties, which would adversely affect our revenues.  

We are entirely dependent on two properties for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties.  

We are entirely dependent upon Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau for all of our cash flow. As a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. The risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following:  

   •    local economic and competitive conditions;  

   •    changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations;  

   •    natural and other disasters;  

   •    a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas or Macau;  

   •    a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at Wynn Las Vegas or Wynn Macau; and,  

   •    the outbreak of an infectious disease such as the avian flu.  

Any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments with respect to our debt.  

Our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition.  

Competition for Wynn Las Vegas. The casino/hotel industry is highly competitive and additional developments are currently underway. Resorts located on or near the Las Vegas Strip compete with other Las Vegas Strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in Las Vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. Wynn Las Vegas also competes with a large number of other hotels located in and near Las Vegas, as well as other resort destinations. Some of our competitors have established gaming operations, are subsidiaries or divisions of large public companies, and may have greater financial and other resources than we do.  

Wynn Las Vegas also competes, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and in Atlantic City, New Jersey, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on Native American lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries, and other forms of gaming. The proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. In particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. In addition, new or renovated casinos in Macau or elsewhere in Asia could draw Asian gaming customers, including high-rollers, away from Wynn Las Vegas.  

Competition for Wynn Macau. Currently, there are 29 operating casinos in Macau. In addition, there are several large casino resorts currently under construction and development.  

20  

Table of Contents 

SJM, controlled by Stanley Ho, who through another entity controlled the monopoly concession to conduct gaming operations in Macau for more than 40 years, is one of the concessionaires and operates 19 of the 29 casinos that are currently operating in Macau. Las Vegas Sands Corp. opened the Sands Macao in May 2004 and the Venetian Macao Resort Hotel in August 2007. Venetian Macao is an all-suites hotel, casino and convention center complex, with a Venetian-style theme similar to that of their Las Vegas property. MGM MIRAGE, in partnership with Pansy Ho, opened the MGM Grand Macau, a resort on the Macau peninsula adjacent to Wynn Macau in December 2007. Also, a joint venture consisting of Melco, a Hong Kong stock exchange-listed company, and PBL, opened the Crown Macau in May 2007 and is constructing a large resort in Cotai, called City of Dreams which is anticipated to open in 2009.  

Our casino concession agreement permits the government to grant additional concessions for the operation of casinos after April 1, 2009. If the government of Macau awards additional concessions or permits additional sub-concessionaires, Wynn Macau will face increased competition from casino operators in Macau. Wynn Macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of Asia, such as Genting Highlands Resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and casinos in the Philippines. Two large-scale casinos that are being developed currently in Singapore will add further competition to the region. Wynn Macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including Australia and Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia. Further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in Japan, or other Asian countries are successful, Wynn Macau will face additional regional competition.  

Our business relies on high-end, international customers to whom we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease.  

General. A significant portion of our table game revenue at Wynn Las Vegas and at Wynn Macau is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. The loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a substantial negative effect on our future operating results. A downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers.  

We conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. This credit is unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter.  

In addition, the collectibility of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. We will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension.  

Wynn Las Vegas. While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the United States Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the United States of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce gaming debts. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results.  

Wynn Macau. Although the law in Macau was changed to permit casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, Wynn Macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players.   

21  

Table of Contents 

 We expect that Wynn Macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent that gaming customers of Wynn Macau are expected to be visitors from other jurisdictions, Wynn Macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and Wynn Macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Wynn Macau’s inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on its operating results.  

Currently, the gaming tax in Macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in Macau does not include deductions for gaming bad debt. As a result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we would have to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we were unable to collect on the related receivables from them. If the laws are not changed, our business in Macau may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to our customers. Although there are proposals to revise the gaming tax regulations in Macau, there can be no assurance that the regulations will be changed.  

We are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business.  

General. The operations of Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all regulatory licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. The laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. The scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. We received all approvals and opened Wynn Las Vegas on April 28, 2005, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain its operation. We opened Wynn Macau on September 6, 2006, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain its operation.  

Wynn Las Vegas. The Nevada Gaming Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own Wynn Resorts’ securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada.  

Nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. Substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. The suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations.  

Wynn Resorts’ articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, Wynn Resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as Wynn Resorts elects.  

Wynn Macau. Wynn Macau’s operations are subject to unique risks, including risks related to Macau’s developing regulatory framework. Wynn Macau may need to develop operating procedures which are different from those used in United States casinos. Failure to adapt to the regulatory and gaming environment in Macau could result in the revocation of Wynn Macau, S.A.’s concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in   

22  

Table of Contents 

 Macau. Moreover, we would be subject to the risk that Macau’s gaming regulatory framework will not develop in a way that would permit us as a United States gaming operator, to conduct operations in Macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the Nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the United States.  

Terrorism and the uncertainty of military conflicts, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results.  

The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau offer. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, other terrorist activities in the United States and elsewhere, military conflicts in Iraq and in the Middle East, past outbreaks of infectious disease and tsunamis have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. In particular, because our business will rely heavily upon high-end customers, particularly international customers, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel internationally could have a negative impact on our operations.  

In addition to terrorist activities, military conflicts, the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the avian flu or the impact of a natural disaster such as a tsunami or typhoon, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. Negative changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations.  

Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase.  

The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences. We currently have insurance coverage for occurrences of terrorist acts with respect to Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau for up to $800 million at each location for losses that could result from these acts. However, these types of acts could expose us to losses that exceed our coverage and could have a significant negative impact on our operations.  

In addition, insurance premiums have increased on available coverage, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. We may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. While we currently carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. In the event that insurance premiums continue to increase, we may not be able to maintain the insurance coverage we currently have or otherwise be able to maintain adequate insurance protection.  

If a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the Wynn-related service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed.  

We have filed applications with the PTO, to register a variety of WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include “WYNN RESORTS”, “WYNN DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT”, “WYNN LAS VEGAS” , “ENCORE”, “WYNN MACAU”, and “WYNN DIAMOND.” Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future.  

23  

Table of Contents 

A common element of these marks is the use of the surname, “WYNN.” As a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) cannot be registered unless the surname has acquired “secondary meaning.” To date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the PTO such secondary meaning for the Wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon Mr. Wynn’s prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications.  

Even if we are able to obtain registration of the WYNN-related marks, such federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. Third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations.  

We have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in Macau, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, certain European countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world to register a variety of WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include many of the same marks filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and include “WYNN MACAU,” “WYNN DIAMOND,” “ENCORE,” and “WYNN LAS VEGAS.” Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future.  

We have recognizes that its intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of “Wynn”, are among its most valuable assets. As a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the United States, we have undertaken a program to register its trademarks and other intellectual property rights in all relevant jurisdictions, some of which may pose a risk of unauthorized use or counterfeiting. We have retained counsel and will take all steps necessary to not only acquire but protect its intellectual property rights against such unauthorized use throughout the world.  

If a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. However, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. It is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. The defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such allegations should be true, may have a material impact on our business.  

The loss of Stephen A. Wynn could significantly harm our business.  

Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of Stephen A. Wynn, the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and one of the principal stockholders of Wynn Resorts. In 2004, we extended the term of Mr. Wynn’s employment agreement until October 2017. However, we cannot assure you that Mr. Wynn will remain with us. If we lose the services of Mr. Wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. In addition, if Mr. Wynn is no longer either employed by us as Chief Executive Officer or serving as Chairman of the Board, other than as a result of death or disability or other limited circumstances, it would constitute a change of control that would require Wynn Las Vegas to offer to repay the First Mortgage Notes and would constitute an event of default under its credit facilities and Wynn Macau, S.A.’s credit facilities.  

Our two largest stockholders are able to exert significant control over our operations and future direction.  

Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA, Inc. each own approximately 21% of our currently outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA, Inc., to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to control all matters requiring our stockholders’ approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions.  

24  

Table of Contents 

On November 13, 2006, the Board of Wynn Resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of Wynn Resorts’ common stock by either Mr. Wynn or Aruze USA, Inc. from Nevada’s acquisition of controlling interest statutes. The Nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain Nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. These statutes define a “controlling interest” as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. As a result of the bylaw amendment, either Mr. Wynn or Aruze USA, Inc. or their respective affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of Wynn Resorts permitting them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the corporation in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the stockholders of the corporation granting voting rights in the control shares acquired.  

In addition, Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA, Inc., together with Baron Asset Fund, have entered into a stockholders’ agreement. Under the stockholders’ agreement, Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA, Inc., have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for a slate of directors, a majority of which will be designated by Mr. Wynn, of which at least two will be independent directors, and the remaining members of which will be designated by Aruze USA, Inc. As a result of this voting arrangement, Mr. Wynn, as a practical matter, controls the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. In addition, in November 2006 this agreement was amended to require the written consent of both Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA, Inc. prior to either party selling any shares of Wynn Resorts that it owns.  

Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities.  

We have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. Under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. As an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination.  

These laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. The liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property.  

Simultaneous construction of Encore and of Wynn Diamond Suites may stretch management time and resources and may impact Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau.  

Both the development and construction for Encore and Wynn Diamond Suites continue. Since there is some overlap of the development and construction of these projects, members of our senior management are simultaneously involved in planning and developing both of these projects which may divert management resources from the construction and/or opening of either project. Management’s inability to devote sufficient time and attention to any one project may delay the construction or opening of either or both of the projects. Any delay caused by such circumstances could have a negative effect on our business and operations.  

25  

Table of Contents 

In addition, although we intend to construct Encore with minimal impact on Wynn Las Vegas, and Wynn Diamond Suites with minimal impact on Wynn Macau, we cannot assure you that the construction will not disrupt the operations of Wynn Las Vegas or Wynn Macau or that it will be implemented as planned. Therefore, the construction of Encore and Wynn Diamond may adversely impact the business, operations and revenues of Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau.  

Risks Associated with Wynn Macau  

A number of new casino resort developments underway or planned for the near future will require us to compete for limited labor resources in Macau.  

We recruited a substantial number of new employees for the opening of Wynn Macau and must be able retain them in order to have a successful operation. Wynn Macau competes with the large number of new casino resort developments currently underway in Macau and expected in the near future for the limited qualified employees. We will have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff Wynn Macau. We cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our Wynn Macau operations.  

The development costs of Wynn Diamond Suites are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected.  

We expect the total development costs of Wynn Diamond Suites to be approximately $600 million. While we believe that the overall budget for the development costs of Wynn Diamond Suites is reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. Although we have certain owners’ contingencies set aside to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. If these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs.  

Not all of the construction costs of Wynn Macau are covered by a guaranteed maximum price construction contract, and we will be responsible for any cost overruns of these excluded items.  

We have entered into a guaranteed maximum price construction contract for the design and construction of Wynn Diamond Suites with Leighton Contractors (Asia) Limited, China State Construction Engineering (Hong Kong) Limited and China Construction Engineering (Macau) Company Limited, acting together as general contractor (“Leighton/China State”). The contract covers approximately $347.8 million of the budgeted $600 million design and construction costs. We are responsible for cost overruns with respect to any budgeted components that are not part of the amended guaranteed maximum price contract.  

The financial resources of our contractor may be insufficient to fund cost overruns or liquidated damages for which it is responsible under the amended guaranteed maximum price contract.  

Under the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations of the guaranteed maximum price construction contract, Leighton/China State is responsible for all construction costs covered by the construction contract that exceed the approximately $347.8 million guaranteed maximum price contained in the contract. The parent companies of the contractor have provided a continuing guaranty by which they guarantee the contractor’s full performance under the construction contract until final payment under that contract. We cannot assure you that the contractor or its parent companies will have sufficient financial resources to fund any cost overruns or liquidated damages for which they are responsible under the guaranteed maximum price contract. Furthermore, neither is contractually obligated to maintain the financial resources to cover cost overruns. If they do not have the resources to meet their obligations and we are unable to obtain funds from them in a timely manner, we may need to pay these excess costs in order to complete construction of Wynn Diamond Suites.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Wynn Macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions.  

The success of Wynn Macau will depend on political and economic conditions in Macau. In December 1999, after approximately 450 years of Portuguese control, Portugal returned Macau to Chinese administration. The People’s Republic of China established Macau as a special administrative region. As a result of this change in control, Macau’s legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. We cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments would affect the business of Wynn Macau.  

Wynn Macau’s operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. For example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in Macau, China or the surrounding region could significantly harm Wynn Macau’s business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds.  

Macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development.  

Because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between Macau and Hong Kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of Macau. If transportation facilities to and from Macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting Macau, the desirability of Macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of Wynn Macau, could be negatively impacted.  

Extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on Wynn Macau.  

Macau’s subtropical climate and location on the South China Sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. Unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of Wynn Macau by disrupting our ability to timely construct the project and by preventing guests from traveling to Macau.  

An outbreak of the avian influenza (“avian flu” or “bird flu”), Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) or other contagious disease may have an adverse effect on the economies of certain Asian countries and may adversely affect our results of operations.  

During 2004, large parts of Asia experienced unprecedented outbreaks of avian flu. In particular, Guangdong Province, PRC, which is located across the Zhuhai Bridge from Macau, has confirmed several cases of avian flu. Currently, no fully effective avian flu vaccines have been developed and there can be no assurance that an effective vaccine can be discovered in time to protect against a potential avian flu pandemic. In the first half of 2003, certain countries in Asia experienced an outbreak of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, which seriously interrupted economic activities and caused the demand for goods to plummet in the affected regions. There can be no assurance that an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious disease or the measures taken by the governments of affected countries against such potential outbreaks, will not seriously interrupt our gaming operations or visitation to Macau, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The perception that an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious disease may occur again may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of countries in Asia.  

Our investment in Macau may be subject to potential taxation.  

Our investment in Macau is owned through a number of wholly owned and partially owned domestic and foreign entities. Although we believe that transfers to these entities of the assets and stock of the Wynn Macau companies were accomplished on a tax-free basis, there is a risk that the Internal Revenue Service could assert that any appreciation in the transferred assets or stock was taxable at the time of such transfers.  

27  

Table of Contents 

Currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact Wynn Macau.   

Currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of Wynn Macau. For example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of China. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macau and negatively impact Wynn Macau’s gaming operations.  

Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a negative impact on Wynn Macau.  

We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  

The Macau government can terminate our concession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.  

The Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable Macau laws. The concession agreement expressly provides that the government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if Wynn Macau, S.A.:  

   •    conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose;  

   •    suspends gaming operations in Macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification;  

   •    defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts;  

   •    does not comply with government inspections or supervision;  

   •    systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system;  

   •    fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government;  

   •    is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent;  

   •    engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or,  

   •    repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws.  

If the government of Macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, Wynn Macau, S.A. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under Macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of Wynn Macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. The loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in Macau, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.  

We will stop generating any revenues from our Macau gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the Macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017.  

Our concession agreement expires in June 2022. Unless our concession is extended, on that date, all of our casino operations and related equipment in Macau will be automatically transferred to the Macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. Beginning in June 2017, the Macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year’s prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation   

28  

Table of Contents 

 or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. We also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues.  

The Macau government has the ability to grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

We hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three sub-concessions authorized by the Macau government to operate casinos in Macau, and the Macau government is precluded from granting any additional gaming concessions until 2009. However, we cannot assure you that the laws will not be changed to permit the Macau government to grant additional gaming concessions before 2009. If the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Certain Nevada gaming laws apply to Wynn Macau’s gaming activities and associations.  

Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada. As we develop Wynn Macau, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in Nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in Macau conducted by our Macau-related subsidiaries. We and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Gaming Commission if our Macau-related subsidiaries:  

   •    knowingly violate any Macau laws relating to their Macau gaming operations;  

   •    fail to conduct Wynn Macau’s operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations;  

   •    engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to Nevada gaming policies;  

   •    engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the State of Nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or,  

   •    employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling.  

Such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries, including Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, and the imposition of substantial fines.  

In addition, if the Nevada State Gaming Control Board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our Macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board can require us and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. If the Nevada Gaming Commission finds that the activity or association in Macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our Macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. Consequently, should the Nevada Gaming Commission find that our Macau-related subsidiary’s gaming activities or associations in Macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in Macau, or be required to divest their investment in Macau, possibly on unfavorable terms.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase Wynn Macau’s obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in Macau.  

The currency delineated in Wynn Macau’s concession agreement with the government of Macau is the Macau pataca. The Macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the Hong Kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in Macau. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca, and the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in Chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments.  

We cannot assure you that the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca will continue to be linked to the U.S. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. We also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level.  

Because many of Wynn Macau’s payment and expenditure obligations are in Macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable Macau pataca or Hong Kong dollar rate changes, Wynn Macau’s obligations, as denominated in U.S. dollars, would increase. In addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that Wynn Macau operates in Macau will be in Hong Kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar. Also, if any of our Macau-related entities incur U.S. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Macau pataca or the Hong Kong dollar, in relation to the U.S. dollar, could have adverse effects on Wynn Macau’s results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt.  

Risks Associated with the Construction and Development of Encore  

The development costs of Encore are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected.  

Our project budget is approximately $2.2 billion, consisting of approximately $2.1 billion for Encore and approximately $100 million for an employee parking garage on our Koval property, an associated pedestrian bridge and costs incurred in connection with the remodeling of the Broadway Theater and production of “Monty Python’s Spamalot” at Wynn Las Vegas. While we believe that the estimated development and construction costs for Encore are reasonable, these development and construction costs are estimates and the actual costs may be higher than expected. Although we will have certain owners’ contingencies to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. If these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and would be dependent upon Wynn Resorts, which is not a guarantor of debt, to contribute additional capital to achieve final completion of the project. Wynn Resorts has no operations except for those of its subsidiaries, which are not obligated to satisfy any obligations or liabilities of Wynn Resorts.  

We intend to fund a substantial portion of the development costs of Encore and our substantial debt service and other obligations with cash flows generated at Wynn Las Vegas, which may not be sufficient to fund such development costs and debt service obligations.  

Our ability to fund a substantial portion of the development costs of Encore, and to make interest payments under the credit facilities, the first mortgage notes and any other indebtedness, is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations at Wynn Las Vegas. We cannot assure you that Wynn Las Vegas will continue to be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such development costs and make the interest payments under the credit facilities, the first mortgage notes and any other indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash flow depends on many factors, including:  

   •    our operating performance;  

   •    the demand for services that we provide;  

30  

Table of Contents 

   •    general economic conditions and economic conditions affecting Nevada or the hotel/casino industry in particular;  

   •    our ability to hire and retain employees at a reasonable cost;  

   •    competition; and,  

   •    legislative and regulatory factors affecting our operations and business.  

Some of these factors are beyond our control. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows to fund the development of Encore or meet our debt service obligations would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the financing documents for our Wynn Macau project contain restrictions on the distribution to Wynn Resorts of any cash flow generated by the Wynn Macau casino. Thus, any cash flow generated by Wynn Macau may not be available to fund development costs of Encore or service our debt.  

There are significant risks associated with major construction projects that may prevent completion of Encore on schedule and within budget.  

Major construction projects of the scope and scale of Encore entail significant risks, including:  

   •    shortages of materials or skilled labor;  

   •    unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems;  

   •    work stoppages;  

   •    weather interference;  

   •    unanticipated cost increases; and,  

   •    unavailability of construction equipment.  

Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of Encore.  

We anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of a subcontractor’s work and payment for all of that subcontractor’s labor and materials. These bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work.  

Encore may not commence operations on schedule or construction costs for this project may exceed budgeted amounts. Failure to complete this project on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt.  

There are conditions precedent to the funding of the remaining components of the financing for Encore.  

As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $883.3 million available under our credit facilities, which we intend to use to fund construction of Encore. We expect to use the availability under our credit facilities, the proceeds from a debt issuance in November 2007, and cash flow from operations to fund the remaining construction and development costs of Encore.  

We have entered into an amended and restated disbursement agreement with the agent under our credit facilities which establishes conditions for the disbursement of funds for Encore.  

We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the conditions to funding at the time drawdowns are required to make payments of our construction costs. Satisfaction of various conditions is subject to the discretion of the disbursement agent and the lenders under our credit facilities and/or their consultants and agent, and may therefore be beyond our control. Failure to satisfy the conditions to the drawdowns under our credit facilities could impact our ability to develop and construct Encore. We may not have access to alternative sources of funds necessary to develop and construct Encore on satisfactory terms or at all.  

31  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES