Item 7 —Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This discussion includes references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G of the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission ('SEC'). We present such non-GAAP financial measures, specifically, organic growth in commissions and fees, adjusted operating margin, adjusted operating income, adjusted net income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations, as we believe such information is of interest to the investment community because it provides additional meaningful methods of evaluating certain aspects of the Company's operating performance from period to period on a basis that may not be otherwise apparent on a GAAP basis. Organic growth in commissions and fees excludes the impact of acquisitions and disposals, period over period movements in foreign exchange, legacy contingent commissions assumed as part of the HRH acquisition, and investment and other income from growth in revenues and commissions and fees. Adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations are calculated by excluding the impact of certain specified items from operating income, net income from continuing operations, and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations, respectively, the most directly comparable GAAP measures. These financial measures should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012.

This discussion includes forward-looking statements, including under the headings 'Executive Summary', 'Liquidity and Capital Resources', 'Critical Accounting Estimates' and 'Contractual Obligations'. Please see 'Forward-Looking Statements' for certain cautionary information regarding forward-looking statements and a list of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in those statements.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Business Overview

We provide a broad range of insurance broking, risk management and consulting services to our clients worldwide and organize our business into three segments: Global, North America and International.

Our Global business provides specialist brokerage and consulting services to clients worldwide arising from specific industries and activities including Aerospace; Energy; Marine; Construction, Property and Casualty; Financial and Executive Risks; Financial Solutions; Faber Global; Fine Art, Jewelry and Specie; Special Contingency Risks; and Reinsurance.

North America and International comprise our retail operations and provide services to small, medium and large corporations and the Human Capital practice, our largest product-based practice group, provides health, welfare and human resources consulting and brokerage services.

In our capacity as advisor and insurance broker, we act as an intermediary between our clients and insurance carriers by advising our clients on their risk management requirements, helping clients determine the best means of managing risk, and negotiating and placing insurance with insurance carriers through our global distribution network.

We derive most of our revenues from commissions and fees for brokerage and consulting services and do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Commission levels generally follow the same trend as premium levels as they are derived from a percentage of the premiums paid by the insureds. Fluctuations in these premiums charged by the insurance carriers can therefore have a direct and potentially material impact on our results of operations.

Due to the cyclical nature of the insurance market and the impact of other market conditions on insurance premiums, commission revenues may vary widely between accounting periods. A period of low or declining premium rates, generally known as a 'soft' or 'softening' market, generally leads to downward pressure on commission revenues and can have a material adverse impact on our commission revenues and operating margin. A 'hard' or 'firming' market, during which premium rates rise, generally has a favorable impact on our commission revenues and operating margin.

28
Business discussion

Market Conditions

The years 2005 through 2010 were generally viewed as soft market years across most of our product offerings and our commission revenues and operating margins throughout that period were negatively impacted, although in 2009 the market experienced modest stabilization in the reinsurance market and certain specialty markets.

Our North America, UK and Irish retail operations were particularly impacted by the weakened economic climate and continued soft market throughout 2009 and 2010 with no material improvement in rates across most sectors in these geographic regions. This resulted in declines in revenues in these operations, particularly amongst our smaller clients who have been especially vulnerable to the economic downturn.

In 2011, we saw some modest increases in catastrophe-exposed property insurance and reinsurance pricing levels driven by significant 2011 catastrophe losses including the Japanese earthquake and tsunami, the New Zealand earthquake, the mid-west US tornadoes and Thailand floods. The trend in rates noted in 2011 in catastrophe-exposed regions continues as insurance and reinsurance rates in such regions firmed or hardened during 2012. However, in general, we continued to be negatively impacted by the soft insurance market and challenging economic conditions across other sectors and most geographic regions.

There have been recent signs that the unprofitability of certain business lines such as property catastrophe and workers' compensation is slowly firming rates in those lines. However, we believe that, in the absence of a significant catastrophe loss or capital impairment in the industry, a universal turn in market rates is not likely to occur.

The outlook for our business, operating results and financial condition continues to be challenging due to the economic conditions within certain European Union countries, in particular, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. If the Eurozone crisis continues or further deteriorates, there will likely be a negative effect on our European business as well as the businesses of our European clients. A significant devaluation of the Euro would cause the value of our financial assets that are denominated in Euros to be reduced. 

Financial Performance

Consolidated Financial Performance

2012 compared to 2011 

Total revenues in 2012 of $3,480 million increased by $33 million, or 1 percent, compared to 2011, including a $59 million or 2 percent negative impact from movements in foreign exchange. Organic growth in commissions and fees of 3 percent was driven by our International and Global operations. Our North America operations reported a decline of 1 percent in commissions and fees, due to lower revenues generated by Loan Protector, a specialty business acquired as part of the HRH business, and the continued adverse impact of difficult economic conditions in the US.

Total expenses in 2012 of $3,689 million increased $808 million compared to 2011, primarily due to the recognition of a $492 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to our North American reporting unit, a $200 million write-off of unamortized cash retention awards following the decision to eliminate the repayment requirement of past awards, and a $252 million expense related to the accrual for 2012 cash bonuses due to be paid in 2013, that do not feature a repayment requirement.

Excluding these expenses, total operating expenses declined $136 million, or 5 percent, principally due to $180 million expense recognised in 2011 related to the Operational Review and favorable movements in foreign exchange partially offset by increases in salary and benefits expenses linked to annual pay reviews, new hires and investments in targeted businesses and geographies.

Net loss attributable to Willis shareholders from continuing operations was $446 million or a loss of $2.58 per diluted share in 2012 compared to a profit of $203 million or $1.15 per diluted share in 2011. The $649 million decrease in net income compared to 2011 primarily reflects the increase in total expenses described above and the $113 million charge to establish a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in our U.S. operations, partially offset by the non-recurrence of the $131 million 

29
Willis Group Holdings plc

post-tax cost in 2011 relating to the make-whole amounts on the repurchase and redemption of $500 million of our senior debt and the write-off of related unamortized debt issuance costs and by the revenue growth achieved during the year. Net income was also adversely impacted by a $7 million reduction in interest in earnings of associates, net of tax, mainly due to declining performance in our principal associate, Gras Savoye.

2011 compared to 2010 

Despite difficult market conditions, total revenues in 2011 of $3,447 million increased by $115 million, or 3 percent, compared to 2010. This included organic growth in commissions and fees of 2 percent driven by our International and Global operations. Our North America operations reported a revenue decline of 4 percent, including a 4 percent decline in organic commissions and fees reflecting lower revenues generated by Loan Protector and the continued adverse impact of difficult economic conditions in the US.

Total expenses in 2011 of $2,881 million increased $302 million compared to 2010, primarily due to incremental expense relating to the 2011 Operational Review, a $22 million write-off of an uncollectible accounts receivable balance relating to periods prior to January 1, 2011, discussed later in this section, continued investment to support future growth, increased incentives amortization relating to our cash retention awards, reinstatement of salary reviews for all associates in March 2011 and 401(k) matching contributions for our US associates from January 2011, unfavorable foreign currency translation and an $11 million UK FSA regulatory settlement. These increases were partially offset by cost savings arising from implementation of the 2011 Operational Review, reduced pension expense of $24 million and the year-on-year $8 million benefit from the release of funds and reserves related to potential legal liabilities.

Net income attributable to Willis shareholders from continuing operations was $203 million or $1.15 per diluted share in 2011 compared to $455 million or $2.66 per diluted share in 2010. The $252 million reduction in net income compared to 2010 primarily reflects the increase in total expenses described above and the $131 million post-tax cost relating to the make-whole amounts on the repurchase and redemption of $500 million of our senior debt and the write-off of related unamortized debt issuance costs, partly offset by revenue growth achieved during the year. Net income was also adversely impacted by an $11 million reduction in interest in earnings of associates, net of tax, mainly due to declining performance in our principal associate, Gras Savoye.

Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted Net Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share from Continuing Operations

Adjusted operating income, adjusted net income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations are calculated by excluding the impact of certain items (as detailed below) from operating income, net income from continuing operations, and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations, respectively, the most directly comparable GAAP measures. 

The following items are excluded from operating income and net income from continuing operations as applicable:

(i)the additional accrual recognized following the change in cash retention awards under our annual incentive program;

(ii)write-off of unamortized cash retention awards following decision to eliminate the repayment requirement on past awards;

(iii)goodwill impairment charge; 

(iv)valuation allowance against deferred tax assets;

(v)write-off of uncollectible accounts receivable balance and associated legal fees arising in Chicago due to fraudulent overstatement of commissions and fees;

(vi)costs associated with the 2011 Operational Review; 

30
Business discussion

(vii)significant legal and regulatory settlements which are managed centrally; 

(viii)gains and losses on the disposal of operations; 

(ix)insurance recoveries; 

(x)foreign exchange loss from the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency; and

(xi)make-whole amounts on repurchase and redemption of senior notes and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. 

We believe that excluding these items, as applicable, from operating income, net income from continuing operations and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations provides a more complete and consistent comparative analysis of our results of operations. We use these and other measures to establish Group performance targets and evaluate the performance of our operations. The Company also uses both adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations and adjusted operating margin measures to form the basis of establishing and assessing components of compensation. 

As set out in the tables below, adjusted operating margin at 21.6 percent in 2012, was down 90 basis points compared to 2011, while adjusted net income from continuing operations at $454 million was $28 million lower than in 2011. Adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations was $2.58 in 2012, compared to $2.74 in 2011.

31
Willis Group Holdings plc

A reconciliation of reported operating (loss) income, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, to adjusted operating income is as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Additional incentive accrual recognized following the replacement of annual cash retention awards with annual cash bonuses which will not feature a repayment requirement.

(b)  Write-off of unamortized cash retention awards following decision to eliminate the repayment requirement on past awards.

(c)  Non-cash charge recognized related to the impairment of the carrying value of the North America reporting unit's goodwill.

(d) $11 million settlement with former partners related to the termination of a joint venture arrangement in India. In addition, a $1 million loss on disposal of operations was recorded related to the termination.

(e) Insurance recovery related to the previously disclosed fraudulent activity in Chicago. See 'Correction of Commissions and Fees Overstatement Relating to 2011 and Prior Periods', below.

(f) Write-off of uncollectible accounts receivable balance relating to periods prior to January 1, 2011, see 'Correction of commissions and fees overstatement relating to 2011 and prior periods', below. 

(g) Charge relating to the 2011 Operational Review, including $98 million of severance costs related to the elimination of approximately 1,200 positions for the full year 2011.

(h) Regulatory settlement with the UK Financial Services Authority (FSA).

(i) With effect from January 1, 2010 the Venezuelan economy was designated as hyper-inflationary. The Venezuelan government also devalued the Bolivar Fuerte in January 2010. As a result of these actions, the Company recorded a charge in other operating expenses to reflect the re-measurement of its net assets denominated in Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte.

32
Business discussion

A reconciliation of reported net (loss) income from continuing operations and reported earnings per diluted share from continuing operations, the most directly comparable GAAP measures, to adjusted net income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations is as follows (in millions, except per share data):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Additional incentive accrual recognized following the replacement of annual cash retention awards with annual cash bonuses which will not feature a repayment requirement.

(b)  Write-off of unamortized cash retention awards following decision to eliminate the repayment requirement on past awards.

(c)  Non-cash charge recognized related to the impairment of the carrying value of the North America reporting unit's goodwill.

(d) $11 million settlement with former partners related to the termination of a joint venture arrangement in India. In addition, a $1 million loss on disposal of operations was recorded related to the termination. 

(e) Insurance recovery related to the previously disclosed fraudulent activity in Chicago. See 'Correction of Commissions and Fees Overstatement Relating to 2011 and Prior Periods', below. 

(f) Write-off of uncollectible accounts receivable balance relating to periods prior to January 1, 2011, see 'Correction of commissions and fees overstatement relating to 2011 and prior periods', below. 

(g) Charge relating to the 2011 Operational Review, including $98 million pre-tax of severance costs related to the elimination of approximately 1,200 positions for the full year 2011.

(h) Regulatory settlement with the UK Financial Services Authority (FSA).

(i) With effect from January 1, 2010 the Venezuelan economy was designated as hyper-inflationary. The Venezuelan government also devalued the Bolivar Fuerte in January 2010. As a result of these actions the Company recorded a charge in other operating expenses to reflect the re-measurement of its net assets denominated in Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte.

(j) Potentially issuable shares were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, GAAP basis, because the Company's net loss from continuing operations rendered their impact anti-dilutive.

33
Willis Group Holdings plc

Goodwill Impairment 

We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2012 and concluded that an impairment charge was required to reduce the carrying value of the goodwill associated with the Company's North America reporting unit. The goodwill impairment charge for the North America reporting unit amounted to $492 million. There was no impairment for the Global and International reporting units, as the fair values of these units were significantly in excess of their carrying value.

Correction of commissions and fees overstatement relating to 2011 and prior periods

As previously disclosed, in early 2012 we identified through our internal financial control process and a subsequent internal investigation an uncollectible accounts receivable balance of approximately $40 million in Chicago from the fraudulent overstatement of Commissions and fees from the years 2005 to 2011. 

We concluded that the total $40 million of overstatement does not materially affect our previously issued financial statements for any of the prior periods and we corrected the misstatement by recognizing a charge to Other operating expenses to write off the uncollectible receivable (a) of $13 million (including legal expenses) in the first quarter of 2012 and (b) of $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. In the fourth quarter 2011 we also reversed a $6 million balance of Commissions and fees which had been recorded during 2011 and $2 million of Salaries and benefits expense representing an over-accrual of production bonuses relating to the overstated revenue. During 2012, we have recorded within Other operating expenses a $10 million insurance settlement from insurers in respect of our claim under Group insurance policies, for compensation paid out in the years 2005 to 2010 on the fraudulently overstated revenues discussed above.

The employees in question, who have been terminated, were not members of Willis executive management nor did they play a significant role in internal control over financial reporting. Based on the results of our investigation, which has now been completed, we do not believe that any client or carrier funds were misappropriated or that any other business units were affected. 

We have enhanced our internal controls in relation to the business unit in question, including enhanced procedures over receipt of checks and application of cash, increased segregation of duties between the operating unit and the accounting and settlement function, and additional central sign off requirement on revenue recognition.

Headcount Reduction

In our initial assessment of the Company's organizational design, we have identified a number of positions that we can eliminate and leases we can exit to realize cost savings. The assessment is ongoing but will be completed in the first quarter of 2013 and is expected to result in the elimination of approximately 200 full-time positions.

As a result we expect to incur a pre-tax charge of approximately $35 million to $45 million in the first quarter of 2013. These actions are expected to deliver cost savings, primarily through headcount reduction, of approximately $20 million to $25 million in 2013, beginning in the second quarter, and annualized cost savings of approximately $25 million to $30 million.

Cash retention awards

For the past several years, certain cash retention awards under the Company's annual incentive programs included a feature which required the recipient to repay a proportionate amount of the annual award if the employee voluntarily left the Company before a specified date, which was generally three years following the award. As previously disclosed, the Company made the cash payment to the recipient in the year of grant and recognized the payment in expense ratably over the period it was subject to repayment, beginning in the quarter in which the award was made. The unamortized portion of cash retention awards was recorded within 'other current assets' and 'other non-current assets' in the consolidated balance sheets. 

The following table sets out the amount of cash retention awards made and the related amortization of those awards for the three years ended December 31, 2012.

34
Business discussion

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Included within the $216 million amortization of cash retention awards in 2012 is a $7 million allowance for amounts estimated to be uncollectible. 

The remaining increase in amortization of cash retention awards of $24 million reflects the higher level of cash retention awards paid in 2012 compared to cash retention awards paid in 2009, which were fully amortized in 2011.

In December 2012, the Company decided to eliminate the repayment requirement from past annual cash retention awards under the Company's annual incentive plan and, as a result, recognized a one-time, non-cash, pre-tax charge of $200 million which represents the write-off of the unamortized balance of past awards. 

There were, however, a number of off-cycle awards with a fixed period guarantee attached, for which we have not waived the repayment requirement. The unamortized portion of these awards amounted to $9 million at December 31, 2012.

In addition, the Company has replaced annual cash retention awards with annual cash bonuses which will not include a repayment requirement. The Company has accrued an additional $252 million within deferred revenue and accrued expenses for these 2012 cash bonuses to be paid in 2013. 

As of December 31, 2012, December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we included $9 million, $196 million and $173 million respectively, within other current assets and other non-current assets on the balance sheet, which represented the unamortized portion of cash retention award payments made on or before those dates.

Pension expense

We recorded a net pension credit on our UK defined benefit pension plan in 2012 of $5 million (2011: charge of $6 million; 2010: charge of $28 million). On our US defined benefit pension plan, we recorded a net pension charge of $3 million in 2012 (2011: $nil; 2010: $1 million). On our international and US non-qualified defined benefit pension plans, we recorded a net pension charge of $4 million in 2012 (2011: $5 million; 2010: $6 million).

The movement from a $6 million charge on the UK plan in 2011 to a $5 million credit in 2012 was the result of higher asset returns and lower service cost, reflecting certain changes to plan benefits, partly offset by higher amortization of prior period losses and increased interest cost. 

The 2011 UK plan charge was $22 million lower compared to 2010 as the benefits of higher asset returns, lower amortization of prior period losses and a lower service cost reflecting certain changes to plan benefits were partly offset by an increased interest cost.

The US pension charge was $3 million higher in 2012 compared with 2011 reflecting increased asset return from a higher asset base being more than offset by an increase in amortization of prior period losses. 

The 2011 US pension charge was $1 million lower compared with 2010 reflecting an increased asset return from a higher asset base partly offset by a reduction in amortization of prior period losses.

See 'Contractual Obligations' below for further information on our obligations relating to our pension plans.

35
Willis Group Holdings plc

Acquisitions and Disposals

In fourth quarter 2012, we acquired 100 percent of Avalon Actuarial, Inc, a Canadian actuarial consulting firm for cash consideration of $25 million. Additional consideration of up to approximately $5 million is payable in 2016 based on achievement of certain revenue targets.

Also in the fourth quarter 2012, we sold 100 percent of our reinsurance operation in Mauritius, Willis Re Mauritius Limited, for minimal consideration. A net loss of approximately $1 million was recognized, primarily related to the write-off of goodwill held in relation to this operation.

In second quarter 2012, we acquired 100 percent of Attain Consulting Limited and Trustee Principles Limited at a total cost of $3 million.

In first quarter 2012 we acquired 49.9 percent of Gras Savoye Re at a cost of $29 million, increasing our shareholding from 50.1 percent to 100 percent. 

Also in first quarter 2012 we sold 49.9 percent of our retail operation in Peru, Willis Corredores de Seguros S.A., to Grupo Credito S.A. for $3 million reducing our shareholding to 50.1 percent. Grupo Credito S.A. is an investment arm of Peru's largest financial services holding company. 

Business Strategy

Our aim is to be the insurance broker and risk adviser of choice globally.

Our business model is aligned to the needs of each client segment:

•Insurer — platform-neutral capital management and advisory services;

•Large Accounts — delivering Willis’ global capabilities through client advocacy;

•Mid-Market — mass-customization through our Sales 2.0 model;

•Commercial — providing products and services to networks of retail brokers; and

•Personal — focused on affinity models and High Net Worth segments.

Our business model has three elements:

•Organic growth;

•Recruitment of teams and individuals; and

•Strategic acquisitions.

To meet the needs of our clients, we realigned our business model in 2011 to further grow the company and position us to deliver the Willis Cause:

•we thoroughly understand our clients' needs and their industries;

•we develop client solutions with the best markets, price and terms;

•we relentlessly deliver quality client service; and 

•we get claims paid quickly 

...With Integrity. 

36
Business discussion

REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

The following table is a summary of our revenues, operating income, operating margin, net income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (in millions, except per share data and percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

37
Willis Group Holdings plc

Consolidated Results for 2012 compared to 2011 

Revenues

Total revenues for the Group and by segment for 2012 and 2011 are shown below (millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Organic commissions and fees growth excludes: (i) the impact of foreign currency translation; (ii) the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions; (iii) the net commission and fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each period presented; (iv) in North America, legacy contingent commissions assumed as part of the HRH acquisition that had not been converted into higher standard commission; and (v) investment income and other income from reported revenues.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c) Reported commissions and fees for Global for 2011 included a favorable impact from a change in accounting methodology in a Global Specialty business of $6 million.

Our methods of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.

Total revenues increased by $33 million, or 1 percent, in 2012 compared to 2011, including 3 percent growth in organic commissions and fees partially offset by a $59 million, or 2 percent, negative impact from foreign exchange and a $13 million decrease in investment income due to continued falling yields on deposits.

Total commissions and fees were $3,458 million, up $44 million, or 1 percent, from $3,414 million in 2011. Foreign currency movements negatively impacted commissions and fees by 2 percent. Organic commissions and fees growth was 3 percent. 

New business growth was in the double digits and there were modest benefits in the year from improving rates in certain business lines and geographies; these positive movements were however, offset by a slight increase in lost business.

The Global segment reported 5 percent growth in commissions and fees, comprising 6 percent organic growth in commissions and fees and a 1 percent negative impact from foreign currency translation. Organic commissions and fees growth of 6 percent was led by high single-digit growth across Reinsurance and Willis Faber & Dumas. Global Specialties reported low single-digit growth as strong growth from our Marine, Energy, Financial Solutions, and Construction specialties were partially offset by declines in Aerospace, which continues to be hampered by competitive pricing and a soft rate environment.

The North America segment reported a 1 percent decline in organic commissions and fees, compared to 2011. Whilst new business levels were higher than in 2011, resulting in growth in certain regions and business segments, these were more than offset by lower Loan Protector revenues, the impact of the weakened economy, which negatively impacted our Construction and Human Capital practice groups, and a modest decrease in client retention levels.

The International segment reported flat growth in commissions and fees compared with 2011, comprising 5 percent organic commissions and fees growth and a 5 percent negative impact from foreign currency translation. Organic growth in commissions and fees was led by double-digit growth in our Latin America region, supported by high single-digit growth in Asia and Eastern Europe. Our Western Europe operations reported low single-digit growth despite the continued weakness of economies within the Eurozone. 

38
Business discussion

Our International and Global segments earn a significant portion of their revenues in currencies other than the US dollar, including the Euro and Pound sterling. For 2012, our International segment's reported revenues were adversely impacted by the net effects of foreign currency translation. 

Investment income in 2012 at $18 million was $13 million lower than in 2011, primarily due to declining net yields on cash and cash equivalents. Organic commissions and fees growth by segment is discussed further in 'Operating Results - Segment Information', below.

Salaries and Benefits

Salaries and benefits increased by $388 million, or 19 percent, in 2012 compared with 2011. Foreign currency movements lowered salaries and benefits by $34 million, or 1 percent. The year-on-year net favorable impact from foreign currency translation was driven primarily by the movement of the US dollar against the Pound sterling (in which our London Market based operations incur the majority of their expenses).

Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, salaries and benefits increased by $422 million, or 20 percent, compared with 2011 primarily due to the $452 million expense recognized as a result of the change in remuneration policy for future incentive awards and the elimination of the repayment requirement on past awards; an approximate $55 million increase in salaries, including associated taxes and benefits, resulting from new hires and annual pay reviews; increases in incentives linked to production; long term incentive plans and the amortization of cash retention awards.. These increases were partially offset by the $135 million expense recognized in salaries and benefits associated with the 2011 Operational Review and lower defined benefit pension plan expenses. 

Other Expenses

Other operating expenses were $75 million, or 12 percent, lower in 2012 compared with 2011. Foreign currency movements positively impacted expenses by $35 million, or 6 percent. 

Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, other operating expenses decreased by $40 million or 6 percent compared with 2011 primarily due to the non-recurrence of the $73 million expense recognized in other operating expenses associated with the 2011 Operational Review and the $10 million insurance recovery in 2012 related to the previously disclosed fraudulent activity, partially offset by increases in certain other costs, including provisioning for bad debts and higher technology expenditure.

Depreciation expense was $79 million in 2012, compared with $74 million in 2011. The increase is primarily due to a number of information technology related projects becoming operational at the end of 2011 and during first half 2012 partially offset by $5 million depreciation charge incurred in 2011 related to the Operational Review.

Amortization of intangible assets was $59 million in 2012, a reduction of $9 million compared to 2011. The decrease primarily reflects the ongoing reduction in the HRH acquisition-related amortization.

Goodwill impairment charge was $492 million in 2012. This was a non-cash charge recognized related to the impairment of the carrying value of the North America reporting unit's goodwill. For further information on our testing for goodwill impairment, see 'Critical Accounting Estimates', below.

Net loss on disposal of operations of $3 million was related principally to the dissolution of a joint venture operation in India and loss recognized on disposal of Mauritian reinsurance operation. 

Interest Expense

Interest expense was $128 million in 2012 compared to $156 million in 2011. The decrease in interest expense primarily reflects the non-recurrence of a $10 million write-off of debt fees in 2011 related to the refinancing of the term loan and revolving credit facility and savings as a result of the lower coupon payable and reduced fee amortization on our new debt issued in March 2011 and December 2011.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate on ordinary income for 2012 was 25 per cent, compared with 24 per cent for 2011, with the increase driven primarily by higher than anticipated US state income tax expense, the benefit from the higher tax rates at which costs associated with the 2011 Operational Review are relieved and from a different geographic mix of earnings. The effective tax 

39
Willis Group Holdings plc

rate on ordinary income is calculated before the impact of certain discrete items. Discrete items occurring in 2012 with a significant impact on the tax rate are:

•a tax credit of $34 million on the $492 million charge related to the impairment of the carrying value of the North America reporting unit's goodwill. The tax credit arises in relation to that part of the charge that is attributable to tax deductible goodwill;

•tax related to the $252 million charge for the additional incentive accrual arising from a change in remuneration policy which is generally relieved at a higher rate than the underlying rate;

•tax related to the $200 million charge for the write-off of unamortized retention awards which is generally relieved at a higher rate than the underlying rate;

•a valuation allowance of $125 million made against US deferred tax assets recorded following cumulative losses being incurred in the US. The cumulative losses are primarily attributable to exceptional charges associated with the 2011 Operational review, the impairment of North America goodwill and the additional incentive costs associated with the change in remuneration policy. Of the total valuation allowance, $113 million was recorded in the income statement and $12 million in other comprehensive income;

•a non-deductible charge of $11 million for a settlement with former partners related to the termination of a joint venture arrangement in India;

•adjustments made in respect of tax on profits of prior periods to bring in line the Company's tax provisions to filed tax positions; and

•the net tax impact of the $3 million loss on disposal of operations. 

Including the impact of discrete items, a tax charge of $101 million was recorded on a net loss from continuing operations before interest in earnings of associates of $337 million. This compares to a tax rate of 13 percent in 2011.

Interest in Earnings of Associates, net of Tax

The majority of our interest in earnings of associates relates to our share of ownership of Gras Savoye, the leading broker in France. Interest in earnings of associates, net of tax, in 2012 was $5 million compared to $12 million in 2011. The decline was mainly driven by a reduction in net income reported by our principal associate, Gras Savoye.

Similar to many businesses located in the Eurozone, Gras Savoye's operations are being pressured by the economic conditions. In addition, Gras Savoye recently appointed a new CEO and is undergoing a business review that is designed to drive growth in revenues and improve operational efficiencies. 

Discontinued Operations, net of Tax

There have not been any discontinued operations in 2012. 

On December 31, 2011, the Company disposed of Global Special Risks, LLC, Faber & Dumas Canada Ltd and the trade and assets of Maclean, Oddy & Associates, Inc.. The gain (net of tax) on this disposal was $2 million.

40
Business discussion

Consolidated Results for 2011 compared to 2010 

Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Organic commissions and fees growth excludes: (i) the impact of foreign currency translation; (ii) the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions; (iii) the net commission and fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each period presented; (iv) in North America, legacy contingent commissions assumed as part of the HRH acquisition and that had not been converted into higher standard commission; and (v) investment income and other income from reported revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c) Reported commissions and fees and organic commissions and fees growth for Global for 2011 included a 2011 favorable impact from a change in accounting methodology in a Global Specialty business of $6 million. 

(d) Reported commissions and fees included a favorable impact from a change in accounting methodology in a specialty business in North America of $7 million in the year ended December 31, 2010. 

Our methods of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.

Revenue increased by $115 million, or 3 percent, in 2011 compared to 2010. Commissions and fees increased by $121 million or 4 percent, including organic growth in commissions and fees of 2 percent, which comprised 4 percent net new business growth driven by solid new business generation and higher retention of existing clients, and a 2 percent negative impact from renewal fluctuations and other market factors. 

There was a net 2 percent year-over-year benefit to revenue growth from foreign currency translation driven by the weakening of the US dollar against a number of currencies in which we earn our revenues.

The 2 percent growth in organic commissions and fees comprised net growth in our segments:

•Global achieved 7 percent growth, including growth in our Reinsurance, Global Specialties and Willis Faber and Dumas businesses, together with a $6 million 2011 benefit from a change in accounting within a Global Specialty business to conform to current Group accounting policy;

•International achieved 5 percent organic growth driven primarily by our Latin America and Eastern Europe regions; and

•North America reported a 4 percent decline in organic commissions and fees, primarily driven by the revenue decline in Loan Protector (a small specialty business acquired as part of the HRH business that works with financial institutions to confirm their loans are properly insured and interests are adequately protected). Excluding Loan Protector, the North America segment recorded a 2 percent decline in organic commissions and fees as the benefit of new business generation was more than offset by a 1 percent decline in client retention levels, the continued negative impact of the soft market and ongoing weakened economic conditions in the US.

Investment income in 2011 at $31 million was $7 million lower than in 2010, as low interest rates across the globe, in particular in the UK and US, together with the roll-off of our interest rate hedge program continued to impact our investment income.

41
Willis Group Holdings plc

Organic commissions and fees growth by segment is discussed further in 'Operating Results - Segment Information', below.

Salaries and Benefits

Salaries and benefits increased $219 million, or 12 percent, in 2011 compared with 2010, primarily reflecting additional expense in 2011 of $135 million associated with our 2011 Operational Review, a $66 million increase from the amortization of cash retention awards and the year-on-year net adverse impact from foreign currency translation, driven primarily by the movement of the US dollar against the Pound sterling (in which our London Market based operations incur the majority of their expenses). Furthermore, we incurred an additional $10 million expense relating to the reinstatement of our 401(k) match plan for our North America employees from January 2011 and incremental expense following reinstatement of annual salary reviews for all employees from April 2011. These increases were partly offset by cost savings arising from implementation of the 2011 Operational Review, reduced payments of non-retentive incentives and a $24 million decrease in pension expense driven by a higher return on assets and lower amortization of prior period gains and losses.

Other Expenses

Other operating expenses were $92 million, or 16 percent, higher in 2011 compared with 2010, primarily reflecting $40 million of additional expense associated with the 2011 Operational Review, a $22 million write-off of an uncollectible accounts receivable balance relating to periods prior to January 1, 2011, and the $11 million second quarter UK FSA regulatory settlement and increased expense in support of revenue growth initiatives. These were partly offset by cost savings arising from implementation of the 2011 Operational Review, the year-over-year favorable comparison due to the $12 million 2010 charge relating to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency, the $8 million year-over-year benefit from the release of funds and reserves related to potential legal liabilities and positive year-over-year foreign currency translation, driven primarily by gains in 2011 on our forward rate hedging program, compared to losses in 2010.

Depreciation expense was $74 million in 2011, compared with $63 million in 2010. The increase primarily reflects accelerated depreciation expense of $5 million in 2011 relating to systems rationalization in connection with the 2011 Operational Review and depreciation of newly capitalized systems project costs in 2011.

Amortization of intangible assets was $68 million in 2011, a reduction of $14 million compared to 2010. The decrease primarily reflects the year-over-year benefit of the 2010 amortization of the HRH non-compete agreement acquired in 2008, which was fully amortized in 2010.

Make-whole on repurchase and redemption of senior notes and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs

We issued $800 million of new debt in March 2011 and net proceeds of approximately $787 million were used to repurchase and redeem $500 million of 12.875 percent senior notes due 2016 and make related make-whole payments totaling $158 million. In addition to the make-whole payment we also wrote off unamortized debt issuance costs of $13 million.

Interest Expense

Interest expense was $156 million in 2011, a reduction of $10 million compared to 2010. The decrease in interest expense primarily reflects the lower coupon payable on our new debt issued in March 2011, the period-over-period decrease in the outstanding balance on our 5-year term loan facility and net gains recognized on our forward rate hedging program. These benefits were partially offset by the $10 million fourth quarter expense relating to the write-off of debt issuance costs following the refinancing of our bank facility.

42
Business discussion

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate on ordinary income for 2011 was 24 percent, compared with 26 percent for 2010, with the reduction driven primarily by the benefit from the higher tax rates at which costs associated with the 2011 Operational Review are relieved and a different geographic mix of business. The effective tax rate on ordinary income is calculated before the impact of certain discrete items. The significant discrete items occurring in 2011 are:

•tax related to the make-whole payment on repurchase and redemption of senior notes and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs which are relieved at a higher rate than the underlying rate;

•the net impact of gains and losses on disposals recorded in continuing operations;

•tax related to the write-off of an uncollectible accounts receivable balance which is relieved at a higher rate than the underlying rate;

•the impact of the UK FSA regulatory settlement expense for which no tax relief is available;

•the impact of the change in rate of UK corporate income tax being applied to the Company's opening temporary differences; and

•adjustments made in respect of tax on profits of prior periods to bring in line the Company's tax provisions to filed tax positions.

Including the impact of discrete items, the effective tax rate was 13 percent in 2011 compared to 24 percent in 2010.

Interest in Earnings of Associates, net of Tax

Interest in earnings of associates, net of tax, was $12 million in 2011, compared with $23 million in 2010. The decline was mainly driven by a reduction in net income reported by our principal associate, Gras Savoye, following recent refinancing actions taken by the company, ongoing restructuring activity and the negative impact on their results from adverse economic conditions in France and other parts of Europe.

Discontinued Operations, net of Tax

Net income from discontinued operations in 2011 relates to our fourth quarter disposal of Global Special Risks, LLC, Faber & Dumas Canada Ltd and the trade and assets of Maclean, Oddy & Associates, Inc. We recorded net income from discontinued operations of $1 million in 2011, comprising a net loss for the year of $1 million offset by the benefit of a $2 million net gain on disposal.

43
Willis Group Holdings plc

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Debt

Total debt, total equity and the capitalization ratio at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In July 2012, a new revolving credit facility of 15 million Chinese Yuan Renminbi 'RMB' ($2 million) was put in place. Drawings on this facility bear interest at 110 percent of the applicable short term interest rate of an RMB loan having a term equal to the tenor of that drawing, as published by the People's Bank of China 'PBOC'; prevailing as at the drawdown date of that drawing. The facility expires on July 11, 2013. As at December 31, 2012 ¥nil ($nil) had been drawn down on the facility. This facility is solely for the use of our Chinese subsidiary and is available for general working capital purposes.

In March 2011 we issued $800 million of new debt, comprised of $300 million 4.125% senior notes due 2016 and $500 million 5.750% senior notes due 2021. We received net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and expenses, of approximately $787 million, which were used largely to repurchase and redeem $500 million 12.875% senior notes due 2016 and make related make-whole payments totaling $158 million, which represented a slight discount to the make-whole redemption amount provided in the indenture governing this debt. In addition to the make-whole payments of $158 million, we also wrote off unamortized debt issuance costs of $13 million.

In December 2011 we refinanced our bank facility, comprising a new 5-year $300 million term loan and a new 5-year $500 million revolving credit facility. The $300 million term loan repaid the majority of the $328 million balance outstanding on our $700 million 5-year term loan facility and the $500 million revolving credit facility replaces our existing $300 million and $200 million revolving credit facilities. Unamortized debt issuance costs of $10 million relating to these facilities were written off in December 2011 following completion of the refinancing. In 2011, we made $83 million of mandatory repayments against the 5-year term loan before repaying the $328 million balance in December 2011.

These refinancing actions have lengthened our debt maturity profile. At December 31, 2012, we have $nil outstanding under the $500 million facility (December 31, 2011: $nil), the UK facility $20 million facility (December 31, 2011: $nil) and the RMB facility. At December 31, 2012 the only mandatory debt repayments falling due over the next 12 months are scheduled repayments on our $300 million 5-year term loan totaling $15 million.

Liquidity

Our principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations and $522 million available under our revolving credit facilities, of which the $20 million UK facility is solely for use by our main regulated UK entity in certain exceptional circumstances. At December 31, 2012 we had $500 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $150 million is available for general corporate purposes.

As of December 31, 2012, our short-term liquidity requirements consisted of $124 million payment of interest on debt, $15 million of mandatory repayments under our 5-year term loan, $1 million of revolving credit facility commitment fees, capital expenditure and working capital requirements. In addition, our estimated pension contributions for 2013 are $142 million, excluding salary sacrifice contributions. Our long-term liquidity requirements consist of the principal amount of outstanding notes and borrowings under our 5-year term loan facility.

Based on current market conditions and information available to us at this time, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months.

44
Business discussion

Pensions

UK plan

Under the revised funding strategy agreed with the UK plan’s trustee, we expect the cash contributions to the scheme, excluding salary sacrifice contributions, in 2013 to be $91 million compared to $80 million in 2012.

US plan

We will make cash contributions of approximately $40 million to the US plan in 2013, consistent with 2012 contributions. 

Cashflow

Summary consolidated cash flow information (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

This summary consolidated cash flow should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Cash Flow for 2012 compared to 2011 

Operating Activities

Total net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $525 million in 2012, compared with $441 million in 2011. The increase of $84 million primarily reflects a $100 million reduction in cash outflows relating to the 2011 Operational Review and a higher volume of collections made on higher revenues and accounts receivable compared with 2011, partially offset by the modest decline in operating earnings, adjusted for non-cash items; and the $11 million year-on-year increase in payments for cash retention awards. 

Investing Activities

Total net cash used in continuing investing activities was $172 million in 2012 compared to $101 million in 2011. The $71 million increase in net outflow was due to higher capital spend, including; the fit-out and refurbishment of certain leasehold properties, including the completion of the European Data Center; development and implementation of a number of information technology projects including, financial systems and trading platforms; a $23 million increase in payments to acquire subsidiaries, primarily related to the acquisition of Avalon Actuarial, Inc, a Canadian actuarial consulting firm; and the non-recurrence of proceeds from the disposal of certain businesses during 2011.

Financing Activities

Total net cash used in continuing financing activities was $291 million in 2012 compared to $214 million in 2011. The $77 million increase in cash used is the result of the $100 million cash outflow relating to the repurchase of 2.8 million shares during 2012 and the $30 million year-on-year increase in payments made to acquire noncontrolling interests including, Gras 

45
Willis Group Holdings plc

Savoye Re, and our Columbian retail operation; partially offset by the reduction in repayments of debt, net of the refinancing during 2011. 

Consolidated Cash Flow for 2011 compared to 2010 

Operating Activities

Total net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $441 million in 2011 compared with $491 million in 2010. The decrease of $50 million primarily reflects the $57 million year-on-year increase in accounts receivable, reflecting increased revenue but also slower collections in the US due to current economic conditions; cash outflows of approximately $120 million relating to the 2011 Operational Review; and the $24 million year-on-year increase in payments for cash retention awards. These were partly offset by realized cash savings resulting from the 2011 Operational Review and other working capital movements.

Investing Activities

Total net cash used in continuing investing activities was $101 million in 2011 compared to $94 million in 2010. The $101 million net outflow was mainly due to capital spend including fit-out of our Nashville office and IT project investments.

Financing Activities

Total net cash used in continuing financing activities was $214 million in 2011 compared with $293 million in 2010. We issued $800 million of new debt in March 2011 and net proceeds of approximately $787 million were used to repurchase and redeem $500 million of 12.875% senior notes due 2016. As part of this debt refinancing we made a $158 million make-whole payment on the redemption of our 12.875% senior notes due 2016. Other significant financing activities in 2011 include refinancing our bank facility in December 2011, dividend payments of $180 million and receipt of $60 million from the issue of shares.

Own funds

As of December 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of $500 million, compared with $436 million at December 31, 2011 and $522 million remained available to draw under our revolving credit facilities, compared with $520 million at December 31, 2011.

Fiduciary funds

As an intermediary, we hold funds generally in a fiduciary capacity for the account of third parties, typically as the result of premiums received from clients that are in transit to insurers and claims due to clients that are in transit from insurers. We report premiums, which are held on account of, or due from, clients as assets with a corresponding liability due to the insurers. Claims held by, or due to, us which are due to clients are also shown as both assets and liabilities. 

Fiduciary funds are generally required to be kept in certain regulated bank accounts subject to guidelines which emphasize capital preservation and liquidity; such funds are not available to service the Company’s debt or for other corporate purposes. Notwithstanding the legal relationships with clients and insurers, the Company is entitled to retain investment income earned on fiduciary funds in accordance with industry custom and practice and, in some cases, as supported by agreements with insureds. As of December 31, 2012, we had fiduciary funds of $1.8 billion, compared with $1.7 billion at December 31, 2011.

Share Buybacks

The Company is authorized to buy back shares, by way of redemption, and will consider whether to do so from time to time, based on many factors, including market conditions. The Company is authorized to purchase up to one billion shares from time to time in the open market (such open market purchases would be effected as redemptions under Irish law) and it may also redeem its shares through negotiated trades with persons who are not affiliated with the Company as long as the cost of the acquisition of the Company's shares does not exceed $925 million. In February 2012, the Company announced that during the year it intended to buy back up to $100 million of shares under this authorization.

During 2012, we bought back a total of 2,796,546 shares at a total price of $100 million and at an average price of $35.87 on a trade date basis. The purchase of the $100 million of shares was completed during third quarter 2012.

46
Business discussion

As of February 15, 2013 there remains approximately $824 million available to purchase common shares under the current authorization.

Dividends

Cash dividends paid in 2012 were $185 million compared with $180 million in 2011 and $176 million in 2010.

In February 2013, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.28 per share, an annual rate of $1.12 per share, an increase of 3.7 percent over the prior 12 month period. 

REVIEW OF SEGMENTAL RESULTS

We organize our business into three segments: Global, North America and International. Our Global business provides specialist brokerage and consulting services to clients worldwide for risks arising from specific industries and activities. North America and International comprise our retail operations and provide services to small, medium and major corporations.

The following table is a summary of our operating results by segment for the three years ended December 31, 2012 (in millions except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_________________

(a) Reported commissions and fees include a 2011 benefit of $6 million from a change in accounting within a Global Specialty business to conform to current Group accounting policy.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c) Reported commissions and fees included a favorable impact from a change in accounting methodology in a specialty business in North America of $7 million in the year ended December 31, 2010.

Global

Our Global operations during 2012 comprised Global Specialties, Reinsurance, Willis Faber & Dumas, and Willis Capital Markets & Advisory (WCMA). 

The following table sets out revenues, operating income, organic commissions and fees growth and operating margin for the three years ended December 31, 2012 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Reported commissions and fees include a $6 million first quarter 2011 benefit from a change in accounting within a Global Specialty business to conform to current Group accounting policy.

47
Willis Group Holdings plc

(b) Organic commissions and fees growth excludes: (i) the impact of foreign currency translation; (ii) the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions; (iii) the net commission and fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each period presented; and (iv) investment income and other income from reported revenues.

2012 compared to 2011 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,124 million were $51 million, or 5 percent, higher in 2012 compared with 2011. Foreign exchange movements had a net 1 percent impact on commissions and fees; organic growth was 6 percent. 

Organic growth included positive growth across Reinsurance, Global Specialties, Willis Faber & Dumas and WCMA, as strong new business and higher one-off transactions, primarily in WCMA, were partially offset by increases in lost business.

Organic growth in Global Specialties was led by strong performances from Energy, Marine, Financial Solutions and Construction Specialities reflecting single-digit net new business. This growth was partially offset by declines in Aerospace, which continues to be negatively impacted by competitive pricing and rate decreases.

Reinsurance reported mid-single digit growth in 2012, as growth in the International, Specialty and North America divisions was partially offset by the non-recurrence of a fee related to a 2011 profitability initiative. Rates had a modest positive impact on commission and fees in the year.

Willis Faber & Dumas also reported mid-single digit growth in 2012.

WCMA is a transaction-oriented business and its results are more variable than some of our other businesses. In 2012 we reported significantly higher organic commissions and fees than in 2011. Growth in the WCMA business was positively impacted by a higher volume of advisory and catastrophe bond deals closing during the year.

Client retention levels declined to 90 percent for 2012, compared with 91 percent for 2011. 

Operating margin

Operating margin was 32.9 percent in 2012 and 32.5 percent in 2011. The organic growth in commissions and fees discussed above, and lower defined benefit pension costs were offset by higher salary and benefit expense due to the impact of annual salary increases and new hires, higher production linked incentives and increases to discretionary costs.

2011 compared to 2010 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,073 million were $86 million, or 9 percent, higher in 2011 compared with 2010, reflecting organic commissions and fees growth of 7 percent and a net benefit from foreign currency translation of 2 percent. Organic growth included the benefit of net new business generation despite the adverse impact of the continued difficult economic environment and soft market in many of the specialty classes.

Organic growth included positive growth across Reinsurance, Global Specialties, Willis Faber & Dumas and WCMA businesses, together with a $6 million first quarter 2011 benefit from a change in accounting within a Global Specialty business to conform to current Group accounting policy.

Organic growth in Reinsurance in 2011 was led by growth in North America and Asia-Pacific, and included the benefit of new business growth and a profitability initiative that may or may not recur. Overall Reinsurance showed stable pricing with modest increases in some lines and geographies, particularly those affected by catastrophe losses.

Organic growth in Global Specialties was led by strong contributions from Marine, Energy, Financial Solutions and Aerospace, reflecting good new business, high retention levels, targeted hiring of producer talent and connectivity between the retail network and specialty businesses. However, the operating environment remains challenging across most Global Specialty 

48
Business discussion

businesses with depressed world trade and transit volumes, industry consolidation and pressure on financing of construction projects still evident.

Willis Faber & Dumas reported positive organic commissions and fees growth in 2011 and our WCMA business was marginally positive compared to 2010.

The 2 percent net benefit to revenue growth from foreign currency translation in 2011 primarily reflected the period-over-period positive impact of the weakening of the US dollar against both the Euro and Pound sterling, in which we earn a significant portion of Global revenues.

Client retention levels improved to 91 percent for 2011, compared with 90 percent for 2010. 

Operating margin

Operating margin was 32.5 percent in 2011 compared to 32.1 percent in 2010 as the benefit of 7 percent organic commissions and fees growth discussed above and an $18 million decrease in pension expense was offset by a net negative impact from foreign currency movements, an $8 million increase in incentive expense, including amortization of cash retention award payments and the impact of costs associated with continued support of current and future growth.

Operating margin is impacted by foreign exchange movements as the London market operations earn revenues in US dollars, Pounds sterling and Euros and primarily incur expenses in Pounds sterling. In addition, they are exposed to exchange risk on certain Pound sterling-denominated balances.

The period-over-period net negative impact from foreign currency movements in 2011 primarily reflected the increased US dollar value of our Pound sterling expense base as a result of the weakening of the US dollar versus the Pound sterling and the net negative impact of translation of non-USD assets and liabilities into US dollar in our London market operations. These factors were partially offset by the US dollar weakening against the Pound sterling and the Euro, increasing the US dollar value of our Pound and Euro denominated revenues.

North America

Our North America business provides risk management, insurance brokerage, related risk services and employee benefits brokerage and consulting to a wide array of industry and client segments in the United States, Canada and Mexico. 

The following table sets out revenues, operating income, organic commissions and fees growth and operating margin for the three years ended December 31, 2012 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b) Reported commissions and fees included a favorable impact from a change in accounting methodology in a specialty business in North America of $7 million in the year ended December 31, 2011.

(c) Organic commissions and fees growth excludes: (i) the impact of foreign currency translation; (ii) the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions; (iii) the net commission and fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each period presented; (iv) in North 

49
Willis Group Holdings plc

America, legacy contingent commissions assumed as part of the HRH acquisition and that had not been converted into higher standard commissions; and (v) investment income and other income from reported revenues. 

2012 compared to 2011 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,306 million were $8 million, or 1 percent, lower in 2012 compared with 2011. Legacy contingent commissions assumed as part of the HRH acquisition amounted to $2 million compared to $5 million in 2011.

Organic commissions and fees growth declined 1 percent in 2012 compared with 2011, whilst new business levels were higher than in 2011, resulting in growth in certain regions and business segments. These were more than offset by lower Loan Protector revenues and the impact of weakened economy. 

The decline in the financial performance of our Loan Protector business had a 1 percent negative impact on North America organic growth in commissions and fees and for the full year 2011 and negatively impacted the segment's revenue by $10 million. The Loan Protector decline was driven by the loss of clients through attrition and M&A activity, industry-wide commission pressures and a slowdown in foreclosures in the US in 2011.

Client retention levels were 91 percent in 2012 consistent with 2011.

Operating margin

Operating margin in North America was 18.3 percent in 2012 compared with 20.5 percent in 2011, reflecting the adverse impact from the 1 percent decline in organic commissions and fees growth discussed above, a $4 million reduction in investment income due to declining yields and increases to incentive expenses and increased production linked awards and stock based compensation. These were partly offset by a reduction to other expenses, including lower premises costs and a reduction in E&O provisions.

2011 compared to 2010 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,314 million were $55 million, or 4 percent, lower in 2011 compared with 2010 of which $6 million was attributable to the decrease in legacy contingent commissions assumed as part of the HRH acquisition from $11 million in 2010 to $5 million in 2011.

Organic commissions and fees growth declined 4 percent in 2011 compared with 2010, as the benefits of new business generation and growth in some regions were more than offset by declining Loan Protector revenues and the impact of the soft market conditions and weakened economy across most sectors.

The decline in the financial performance of our Loan Protector business had a 2 percent negative impact on North America organic growth in commissions and fees and for the full year 2011 negatively impacted the segment's revenue by $27 million. The Loan Protector decline was driven by the loss of clients through attrition and M&A activity, industry-wide commission pressures and a slowdown in foreclosures in the US in 2011.

Following the introduction of health care reform legislation in 2010, some major health insurance carriers in North America began to change their compensation practices in particular lines of business in certain locations. In response to market pressures those changes caused, we announced in July 2011 that in order to remain competitive, we would begin accepting standard compensation based on volume, but would continue to resist traditional contingent commissions and bonus payments because, while legal, we believe these forms of compensation create conflicts with our clients. After several months of review under changing market conditions, we have concluded that we cannot be fully competitive on Human Capital business if we continue to refuse these legal forms of compensation. Consequently, we will begin to accept all forms of compensation from Employee Benefits providers effective April 1, 2012 in North America.

Client retention levels were 91 percent in 2011 compared to 92 percent in 2010. 

50
Business discussion

Operating margin

Operating margin in North America was 20.5 percent in 2011 compared with 23.1 percent in 2010, reflecting the adverse impact from the 4 percent decline in organic commissions and fees growth discussed above, a period-over-period increase in 401(k) match expense of $10 million following its reinstatement in January 2011 and a $7 million increase in incentive expense, including amortization of cash retention award payments. These were partly offset by a $5 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense and the benefit of cost reductions driven by the 2011 Operational Review and continued focus on expense management.

International

Our International business comprises our retail operations in Western Europe, Central and Eastern Europe the United Kingdom, Asia, Australasia, the Middle East, South Africa and Latin America. The services provided are focused according to the characteristics of each market and vary across offices, but generally include direct risk management and insurance brokerage and employee benefits consulting.

The following table sets out revenues, operating income, organic commissions and fees growth and operating margin for the three years ended December 31, 2012 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a) Organic commissions and fees growth excludes: (i) the impact of foreign currency translation; (ii) the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions; (iii) the net commission and fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each period presented; and (iv) investment income and other income from reported revenues.

2012 compared to 2011 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,028 million were $1 million higher in 2012 compared with 2011. Foreign exchange movements had a 5 percent negative impact on commissions and fees, and organic commissions and fees growth was 5 percent. Organic growth included double digit new business growth, partly offset by slight increases to lost business. Rates and other market factors had no significant impact on commissions and fees in the year.

Despite the ongoing economic difficulties faced by the Eurozone, our large retail operations in the region delivered low single-digit growth in 2012, driven by strong growth in Germany, Sweden and Denmark, although this growth was partially offset by declines in Ireland and Norway.

Our Latin American operation delivered high double-digit growth in 2012, the result of significant new business growth; principally in Brazil, Venezuela and Argentina. 

Asia reported high single-digit growth in organic commissions and fees in 2012 led by strong growth in Japan, China and Korea.

Organic commissions and fees growth in our UK retail operation was flat in 2012, compared with 2011, this reflects a stabilization of the business in the region following a 2 percent decline in 2011. 

51
Willis Group Holdings plc

A significant part of International's revenues are earned in currencies other than the US dollar, most notably the Euro, and Australian dollar. The net 5 percent negative impact from foreign currency translation in 2012 primarily reflected the weakening of the US dollar against these and other currencies in which we earn International revenues.

Client retention levels decreased to 93 percent for 2012, compared with 94 percent for 2011. 

Operating margin

Operating margin in International was 17.6 percent in 2012, compared with 21.2 percent in 2011. The decrease primarily reflected significant increases in salaries and benefits as a result of new hires supporting growth in targeted geographies and annual pay increases, negative impact of foreign exchange on revenues and increases to certain provisions including bad debts. These decreases were partly offset by the benefit from organic commissions and fees discussed above.

2011 compared to 2010 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,027 million were $90 million, or 10 percent, higher in 2011 compared with 2010, comprising 5 percent organic growth and a net 5 percent positive impact from foreign currency translation. Organic growth included net new business growth of 7 percent, partly offset by the negative impact from rates and other market factors.

There were strong contributions to 2011 organic commissions and fees growth from most regions, including double-digit growth in our Latin America and Eastern Europe regions, together with single-digit growth in Asia and Western Europe. In particular, there was strong growth in Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Russia and China.

The single-digit organic commissions and fees growth in our large retail operation in Continental Europe was primarily driven by strong growth in Italy, Spain and Germany, despite the ongoing challenging economic conditions in this region, offset by lower commissions and fees in Denmark and the Netherlands.

Organic commissions and fees growth in our UK and Ireland retail operations, declined 2 percent in 2011, compared with the same period 2010, driven by the economic pressures that continue to affect both the UK and Ireland.

A significant part of International's revenues are earned in currencies other than the US dollar, most notably the Euro, Pound sterling and Australian dollar. The net 5 percent benefit from foreign currency translation in 2011 primarily reflected the weakening of the US dollar against these and other currencies in which we earn International revenues.

Client retention levels increased to 94 percent for 2011, compared with 93 percent for 2010. 

Operating margin

Operating margin in International was 21.2 percent in 2011, compared with 23.8 percent in 2010, with the decrease primarily reflecting a $17 million increase in incentive expenses including amortization of cash retention award payments, the impact of the reinstated annual salary review for all employees from April 2011 and increased spending on initiatives to drive future growth, including investment hires. These increases were partly offset by the benefit from organic commissions and fees growth and favorable foreign currency movements as discussed above and reduced pension expense.

52
Business discussion

Corporate and Other

The Company evaluates the performance of its segments based on organic commissions and fees growth and operating income. For internal reporting and segmental reporting, items for which segmental management are not held responsible for are held within ‘Corporate and Other’.

Corporate and Other comprises the following (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Additional incentive accrual recognized following the replacement of annual cash retention awards with annual cash bonuses which will not feature a repayment requirement.

(b) Write-off of unamortized cash retention awards following decision to eliminate the repayment requirement on past awards.

(c) Non-cash charge recognized related to the impairment of the carrying value of the North America reporting unit's goodwill.

(d) $11 million settlement with former partners related to the termination of a joint venture arrangement in India. In addition, a $1 million loss on disposal of operations was recorded related to the termination.

(e) Insurance recovery, recorded in Other operating expenses, related to a previously disclosed fraudulent activity in Chicago, discussed above.

(f) In early 2012 the Company identified an uncollectible accounts receivable balance of approximately $28 million in Chicago due to fraudulent overstatements of Commissions and fees. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded an estimate of the misstatement of Commissions and fees from prior periods by recognizing in the fourth quarter of 2011 a $22 million charge to Other operating expenses to write off the uncollectible receivable at January 1, 2011. 

The Company concluded its internal investigation into these matters in the three months ended March 31, 2012 and identified an additional $12 million in fraudulent overstatement of Commissions and fees, and has corrected the additional misstatement by recognizing a $13 million charge (including legal expenses) to Other operating expenses in the first quarter of 2012. The above amount represents the additional charge taken.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

53
Willis Group Holdings plc

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Our accounting policies are described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management considers that the following accounting estimates or assumptions are the most important to the presentation of our financial condition or operating performance. Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated disclosures with our Audit Committee.

Pension expense

We maintain defined benefit pension plans for employees in the US and UK. Both of these plans are now closed to new entrants and, with effect from May 15, 2009 we closed our US defined benefit plan to future accrual. New employees in the UK are offered the opportunity to join a defined contribution plan and in the US are offered the opportunity to join a 401(k) plan. We also have smaller defined benefit plans in Ireland, Germany, Norway and the Netherlands and a non-qualified plan in the US. These schemes have combined total assets of $150 million and a combined net liability for pension benefits of $30 million as of December 31, 2012. Elsewhere, pension benefits are typically provided through defined contribution plans.

We recorded a $5 million net pension credit on our UK defined benefit pension scheme and a net pension charge of $3 million on our US defined benefit pension plans in 2012, compared with net pension charges of $6 million and $nil respectively in 2011. On our international defined benefit pension plans and US non-qualified plan, we recorded a net pension charge of $4 million in 2012, compared with $5 million in 2011.

Based on December 31, 2012 assumptions, except for the expected rate of return updated to 7.25 percent, we expect the net pension credit in 2013 to be unchanged for the UK plan. The net pension charge will decrease by $6 million for the US plan and be unchanged for the international plans.

We make a number of assumptions when determining our pension liabilities and pension expense which are reviewed annually by senior management and changed where appropriate. The discount rate will be changed annually if underlying rates have moved whereas the expected long-term return on assets will be changed less frequently as longer term trends in asset returns emerge or long term target asset allocations are revised. Other material assumptions include rates of participant mortality, the expected long-term rate of compensation and pension increases and rates of employee termination. Our approach to determining appropriate assumptions for our UK and US pension plans is set out below.

UK plan

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Except for the expected rate of return updated to 7.25%.

(b) With all other assumptions held constant.

(c) Assumes all plan participants are one year younger.

Discount rate

During 2012 we continued to use a duration-based approach, which more closely matches the actual timing of expected cash flows to the applicable discount rate. The selected rate used to discount UK plan liabilities in 2012 was 4.40% compared with 4.80% at December 31, 2011 with the decrease reflecting falls in pound sterling high-quality bond yields during 2012. 

The lower discount rate generated an actuarial loss of approximately $186 million at December 31, 2012.

Expected and actual asset returns

Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are developed from the expected future returns of the various asset classes using the target asset allocations. The expected long-term rate of return used for determining the net UK pension expense in 

54
Business discussion

2012 was 7.50% (2011: 7.50%), equivalent to an expected return in 2012 of $181 million (2011: $161 million). Effective January 1, 2013, the expected long-term rate of return was decreased to 7.25%. The decrease in the expected long-term rate of return followed a change in the underlying target asset mix, which reflects the expected commencement in 2013 of the de-risking strategy proposed by the Trustees which will lead to a strategic target asset allocation with a greater weighting to non-return seeking assets.

The expected and actual returns on UK plan assets for the three years ended December 31, 2012 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mortality

The mortality assumption used during 2012 is the 90/105% PNA00 table for males / females, unchanged from the assumptions used during 2011.

As an indication of the longevity assumed, our calculations assume that a UK male retiree aged 65 at December 31, 2012 would have a life expectancy of 24 years.

US plan

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) With all other assumptions held constant.

(b) Assumes all plan participants are one year younger.

Discount rate

The discount rate at December 31, 2012 was 4.07%, a reduction of 56 basis points from the discount rate of 4.63% at December 31, 2011, the fall in the discount rate reflects declining high-quality corporate bond yields during 2012. 

The impact of the lower discount rate in 2012 increased the projected benefit obligation by approximately $71 million.

Expected and actual asset returns

The expected long-term rate of return used for determining the net US pension scheme expense in 2012 was 7.25%, a reduction of 0.25% from 2011. 

The expected and actual returns on US plan assets for the three years ended December 31, 2012 were as follows:

55
Willis Group Holdings plc

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mortality

The mortality assumption at December 31, 2012 is the RP-2000 Mortality Table (blended for annuitants and non-annuitants), projected by Scale AA to 2020 for annuitants and 2028 for non-annuitants (December 31, 2011: projected by Scale AA to 2019 for annuitants and 2027 for non-annuitants). 

As an indication of the longevity assumed, our calculations assume that a US male retiree aged 65 at December 31, 2012, would have a life expectancy of 19 years.

Intangible assets

Intangible assets represent the excess of cost over the value of net tangible assets of businesses acquired. We classify our intangible assets into three categories;

•Goodwill;

•‘Customer and Marketing Related’ which includes client lists, client relationships, trade names and non-compete agreements; and

•‘Contract-based, Technology and Other’ which includes all other purchased intangible assets.

Client relationships acquired on the HRH acquisition are amortized over twenty years in line with the pattern in which the economic benefits of the client relationships are expected to be consumed. Over 80% of the client relationships intangible will have been amortized after 10 years. Non-compete agreements acquired in connection with the HRH acquisition were amortized over two years on a straight line basis. Intangible assets acquired in connection with other acquisitions are amortized over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis. Goodwill is not subject to amortization.

We review purchased intangible assets with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these intangible assets is assessed based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the continued use of the asset. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount, the purchased intangible assets with finite lives are considered to be impaired. The amount of the impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value.

Goodwill impairment review

We test goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred.

The goodwill impairment test is a two step analysis. Step One requires the fair value of each reporting unit to be compared to its carrying value. If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be greater than the carrying value of the reporting unit, goodwill is not considered impaired and no further testing is necessary. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we perform Step Two. Step Two requires the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill to be compared with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Determining the implied fair value of goodwill requires a valuation of the reporting unit’s tangible and intangible assets and liabilities in a manner similar to the allocation of the purchase price in a business combination. Any excess of the value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is referred to as the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.

Application of the impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units and determination of fair value of each reporting unit.

56
Business discussion

Determination of reporting units

We have determined our reporting units to be consistent with our operating segments: North America; International and Global. Goodwill is allocated to these reporting units based on the original purchase price allocation for acquisitions within the reporting units.

Fair value of reporting units

The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology and, in aggregate, validated against our market capitalization.

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include estimations of future cash flows which are dependent on internal forecasts, long-term rate of growth for our business and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.

We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Therefore changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and result in goodwill impairment.

In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units.

Annual goodwill impairment analysis

We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2012 and concluded that an impairment charge was required to reduce the carrying value of the goodwill associated with the Company's North America reporting unit. The goodwill impairment charge for the North America reporting unit amounted to $492 million. There was no impairment for the Global and International reporting units, as the fair values of these units were significantly in excess of their carrying value.

Under the income approach, the fair value of the North America reporting unit was determined based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The fair value measurements used unobservable inputs in a discounted cash flow model based on the Company's most recent forecasts. Such projections were based on management's estimates of revenue growth rates and operating margins, taking into consideration industry and market conditions, and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit's ability to execute on the projected cash flows with consideration of market comparables where appropriate. The discount rate was based on the weighted-average cost of capital adjusted for the relevant risk associated with market participant expectations of characteristics of the individual reporting units.

As the fair value of the reporting unit was less than its carrying value, the second step of the impairment test was performed to measure the amount of any impairment loss. In the second step, the North America reporting unit's fair value was allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets. The fair value of intangible assets associated with the North America reporting unit included customer relationship intangible assets, which were valued using a multiple period excess earnings approach involving discounted future projections of associated revenue streams.

The decline in the fair value of the North America reporting unit, as well as differences between fair values and carrying values for other assets and liabilities in the second step of the goodwill impairment test, resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill substantially below the carrying value of the goodwill for the reporting unit. As a result, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $492 million. 

As previously disclosed, the North America reporting unit has been hampered by the declining Loan Protector business results, the effect of the soft economy in the U.S., which has significantly impacted the Construction and Human Capital sectors, and declining retention rates primarily related to M&A activity and lost legacy HRH business. 

The decline in the estimated fair value of the reporting unit resulted from lower projected revenue growth rates and profitability levels as well as an increase in the discount rate used to calculate the discounted cash flows. The increase in the discount rate was due to increases in the risk-free rate and small company premium offset by a reduction to the expected market rate of return. The lower projected profitability levels reflect changes in assumptions related to organic revenue growth and cost rates which can be attributed to the declines discussed above and also includes consideration of the uncertainty related to the business's ability to execute on the projected cash flows.

57
Willis Group Holdings plc

Income taxes

We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the estimated future tax consequences of events attributable to differences between the financial statements carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating and capital loss and tax credit carry-forwards. We estimate deferred tax assets and liabilities and assess the need for any valuation allowances using tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to be recovered or settled taking into account our business plans and tax planning strategies.

At December 31, 2012, we had gross deferred tax assets of $451 million (2011: $432 million) against which a valuation allowance of $221 million (2011: $102 million) had been recognized. To the extent that:

•the actual future taxable income in the periods during which the temporary differences are expected to reverse differs from current projections;

•assumed prudent and feasible tax planning strategies fail to materialize;

•new tax planning strategies are developed; or

•material changes occur in actual tax rates or loss carry-forward time limits,

we may adjust the deferred tax asset considered realizable in future periods. Such adjustments could result in a significant increase or decrease in the effective tax rate and have a material impact on our net income.

Positions taken in our tax returns may be subject to challenge by the taxing authorities upon examination. We recognize the benefit of uncertain tax positions in the financial statements when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on examination by the tax authorities. The benefit recognized is the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized on settlement with the tax authority, assuming full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts. The Company adjusts its recognition of these uncertain tax benefits in the period in which new information is available impacting either the recognition or measurement of its uncertain tax positions. In 2012, there was a net increase in uncertain tax positions of $21 million compared to a net increase of $3 million in 2011. The Company recognizes interest relating to unrecognized tax benefits and penalties within income taxes. Accrued interest and penalties are included within the related tax liability line in the consolidated balance sheet.

Commitments, contingencies and accrued liabilities

We purchase professional indemnity insurance for errors and omissions claims. The terms of this insurance vary by policy year and self-insured risks have increased significantly over recent years. We have established provisions against various actual and potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance and reinsurance in the ordinary course of business. Such provisions cover claims that have been reported but not paid and also claims that have been incurred but not reported. These provisions are established based on actuarial estimates together with individual case reviews and are believed to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice.

58
Business discussion

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The Company’s contractual obligations as at December 31, 2012 are presented below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(a) Presented gross of sublease income.

(b) Other contractual obligations include capital lease commitments, put option obligations and investment fund capital call obligations, the timing of which are included at the earliest point they may fall due.

(c) The above excludes $34 million for liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits as we are unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities.

Debt obligations and facilities

The Company’s debt and related interest obligations at December 31, 2012 are shown in the above table.

In July 2012, a new revolving credit facility of 15 million Chinese Yuan Renminbi 'RMB' ($2 million) was put in place which bears interest at 110 percent of the applicable short term interest rate on an RMB loan having a term equal to the tenor of that drawing as published by the People's Bank of China 'PBOC' prevailing as at the drawdown date of that drawing. The facility expires on July 11, 2013. As at December 31, 2012 ¥nil ($nil) had been drawn down on the facility. This facility is solely for the use of our Chinese subsidiary and is available for general working capital purposes.

In March 2011 we issued $800 million of debt, comprising of $300 million of 4.125% senior notes due 2016 and $500 million of 5.750% senior notes due 2021. We received net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and expenses of approximately $787 million, which were largely used, to repurchase and redeem $500 million of 12.875% senior notes due 2016 and make related make-whole payments totaling $158 million, which represented a slight discount to the make-whole redemption amount provided in the indenture governing this debt. In addition to the make-whole payments of $158 million, we also wrote off unamortized debt issuance costs of $13 million.

In December 2011 we refinanced our bank facility, comprising a 5-year $300 million term loan and a new 5-year $500 million revolving credit facility. The $300 million term loan repaid the majority of the $328 million balance outstanding on our $700 million 5-year term loan facility and the $500 million revolving facility replaced our $300 million and our $200 million revolving credit facilities. Unamortized debt issuance costs of $10 million relating to these facilities were written off in December 2011 following completion of the refinancing.

59
Willis Group Holdings plc

Conditions to borrowing under the banking facility include the accuracy and completeness in all material respects of all representations and warranties in the loan documentation and that no default under the banking facility then existed or would result from such borrowing or the application of the proceeds thereof. Voluntary prepayments are permitted without penalty or premium (subject to minimum amounts) and mandatory prepayments are required in certain circumstances.

We are subject to various affirmative and negative covenants and reporting obligations under the banking facility. These include, among others, limitations on subsidiary indebtedness, liens, sale and leaseback transactions, certain investments, fundamental changes, assets sales and restricted payments, and maintenance of certain financial covenants. Events of default under the banking facility include non-payment of amounts due to the lenders, violation of covenants, incorrect representations, defaults under other material indebtedness, judgments and specified insolvency-related events, certain ERISA events and invalidity of loan documents, subject to, in certain instances, specified thresholds, cure periods and exceptions.

At December 31, 2012 the only mandatory debt repayments falling due over the next 12 months are scheduled repayments on our $300 million 5-year term loan totaling $15 million.

Operating leases

The Company leases certain land, buildings and equipment under various operating lease arrangements. Original non-cancellable lease terms typically are between 10 and 20 years and may contain escalation clauses, along with options that permit early withdrawal. The total amount of the minimum rent is expensed on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.

As of December 31, 2012, the aggregate future minimum rental commitments under all non-cancellable operating lease agreements are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company leases its main London building under a 25-year operating lease, which expires in 2032. The Company’s contractual obligations in relation to this commitment included in the table above total $730 million (2011: $715 million). Annual rentals are $32 million per year and the Company has subleased approximately 29 percent of the premises under leases up to 15 years. The amounts receivable from subleases, included in the table above, total $76 million (2011: $82 million; 2010: $87 million).

Rent expense amounted to $135 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 (2011: $127 million; 2010: $127 million). The Company’s rental income from subleases was $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 (2011: $18 million; 2010: $22 million).

Pensions

Contractual obligations for our pension plans reflect the contributions we expect to make over the next five years into our US, UK, international and US non-qualified plans. These contributions are based on current funding positions and may increase or decrease dependent on the future performance of the plans.

UK plan

During 2012, the Company made cash contributions to the UK defined benefit pension plan of $80 million (2011: $81 million; 2010: $78 million), additionally $12 million (2011: $11 million; 2010: $10 million) will be paid into the plan in respect of employees' salary sacrifice contributions.

60
Business discussion

In March 2012, the Company agreed to a revised schedule of contributions towards on-going accrual of benefits and deficit funding contributions the Company will make to the UK plan over the six years ended December 31, 2017. Contributions in each of the next five years are expected to total approximately $81 million, of which approximately $23 million relates to on-going contributions calculated as 15.9 percent of active plan members' pensionable salary and approximately $58 million that relates to contributions towards the funding deficit.

In addition, further contributions will be payable based on a profit share calculation (equal to 20 percent of EBITDA in excess of $900 million per annum as defined by the revised schedule of contributions) and an exceptional return calculation (equal to 10 percent of any exceptional returns made to shareholders, for example, share buybacks, and special dividends). Upon finalization of these calculations the Company expects to make a further contribution in 2013 of $10 million, calculated as 10 percent of the $100 million share buy-back program completed during 2012. Aggregate contributions under the deficit funding contribution and the profit share calculation are capped at £312 million ($507 million) over the six years ended December 31, 2017.

The schedule of contributions is automatically renegotiated after three years and at any earlier time jointly agreed by the Company and the Trustee.

US plan

We made total cash contributions to our US defined benefit pension plan of $40 million in 2012, compared with $30 million in 2011 and $30 million in 2010.

We expect to make contributions of approximately $40 million in 2013 and $30 million in 2014 through 2016 under US pension legislation based on our December 31, 2012 balance sheet position.

International plans

We made total cash contributions to our international defined benefit pension plans of $11 million in 2012, compared with $13 million in 2011 and $12 million in 2010.

In 2013, we expect to contribute approximately $11 million to our international plans.

The final 2013 contribution for all plans is expected to be approximately $142 million, excluding salary sacrifice which compares to an equivalent 2012 total contribution of $131 million.

Guarantees

Guarantees issued by certain of Willis Group Holdings’ subsidiaries with respect to the senior notes and revolving credit facilities are discussed in Note 19 — 'Debt' in these consolidated financial statements.

Certain of Willis Group Holdings’ subsidiaries have given the landlords of some leasehold properties occupied by the Company in the UK and the US guarantees in respect of the performance of the lease obligations of the subsidiary holding the lease. The operating lease obligations subject to such guarantees amounted to $829 million and $828 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

In addition, the Company has given guarantees to bankers and other third parties relating principally to letters of credit amounting to $10 million and $7 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Willis Group Holdings also guarantees certain of its UK and Irish subsidiaries’ obligations to fund the UK and Irish defined benefit plans.

Other Contractual Obligations

For certain subsidiaries and associates, the Company has the right to purchase shares (a call option) from co-shareholders at various dates in the future. In addition, the co-shareholders of certain subsidiaries and associates have the right to sell (a put option) their shares to the Company at various dates in the future. Generally, the exercise price of such put options and call options is formula-based (using revenues and earnings) and is designed to reflect fair value. Based on current projections of profitability and exchange rates and assuming the put options are exercised, the potential amount payable from these options is not expected to exceed $19 million (2011: $72 million).

61
Willis Group Holdings plc

In July 2010, the Company made a capital commitment of $25 million to Trident V Parallel Fund, LP, an investment fund managed by Stone Point Capital. This replaced a capital commitment of $25 million that had been made to Trident V, LP in December 2009. As at December 31, 2012 there have been approximately $10 million of capital contributions.

In May 2011, the Company made a capital commitment of $10 million to Dowling Capital Partners I, LP. As at December 31, 2012 there have been $2 million of capital contributions.

Other contractual obligations at December 31, 2012 also include the capital lease on the Company’s Nashville property of $53 million, payable from 2012 onwards.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (‘FASB’) issued new guidance to provide a consistent definition of fair value and ensure that fair value measurements and disclosure requirements are similar between US GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’). The guidance changes certain fair value measurement principles and enhances the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements.

In June 2011, the FASB issued new guidance to revise the manner in which entities present comprehensive income in their financial statements, requiring that the components of comprehensive income be presented in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendments do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income (OCI) or when an item of OCI must be reclassified to net income.

ASU No. 2011-05 also requires entities to present on the face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-12 in order to defer those changes in ASU No. 2011-05 that relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments. In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-02, Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive (ASU 2013-02). This guidance is the culmination of the FASB's deliberation on reporting reclassification adjustments from accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). The amendments in ASU 2013-02 do not change the current requirements for reporting net income or other comprehensive income but do require disclosure of amounts reclassified out of AOCI in its entirety, by component, on the face of the statement of operations or in the notes thereto. Amounts that are not required to be reclassified in their entirety to net income must be cross-referenced to other disclosures that provide additional detail. This standard is effective prospectively for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012. The Company is evaluating the effect the adoption of ASU 2013-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements effective from first quarter 2013.

In September 2011, the FASB also issued guidance to allow an entity the option to make a qualitative evaluation about the likelihood of goodwill impairment to determine whether it should calculate the fair value of a reporting unit. 

All of the above accounting changes became effective for the Company from first quarter 2012.

Further details of the changes are described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other than the changes described above, there were no new accounting standards issued during 2012 that would impact on the Company’s reporting.

OFF BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS

Apart from commitments, guarantees and contingencies, as disclosed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

62
Market risk

Item 7A —Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk