PART I  

Item 1. Business   

Overview  

We are a leading provider of technology, services and solutions to the diagnostics, research, environmental and safety, industrial and laboratory services markets. Through our advanced technologies, solutions, and services, we address critical issues that help to improve the health and safety of people and their environment.  

We are a Massachusetts corporation, founded in 1947. Our headquarters are in Waltham, Massachusetts, and we market our products and services in more than 150 countries. As of January 2, 2011, we employed approximately 6,200 employees in our continuing operations. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PKI” and we are a component of the S&P 500 Index.  

We maintain a website with the address http://www.perkinelmer.com. We are not including the information contained in our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or otherwise furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Our Strategy  

Our strategy is to provide innovative products, solutions and services that drive productivity improvements in targeted high growth market segments and to develop value-added applications and solutions to foster further development and expansion of the markets we serve. To execute on our strategy and drive higher revenue growth, we focus on broadening our product and service offerings through the acquisition of innovative technology and expenditures for research and development. Our strategy includes:  

   •    Achieving significant growth in both of our core business segments, Human Health and Environmental Health, through strategic acquisitions and licensing;  

   •    Accelerating innovation through both internal research and development and third-party collaborations and alliances;  

   •    Strengthening our position within key markets, by expanding our product and service offerings and maintaining superior product quality;  

   •    Utilizing our share repurchase programs to help drive shareholder value; and  

   •    Attracting, retaining and developing talented and motivated employees.  

Recent Developments  

As part of our strategy to grow our core businesses, we have recently acquired the following businesses:  

Business Combinations and Asset Purchases:  

Acquisition of chemagen Biopolymer-Technologie AG. In February 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of chemagen Biopolymer-Technologie AG (“chemagen”). chemagen manufactures and sells nucleic acid sample preparation systems and reagents utilizing M-PVA magnetic bead technology. We expect this acquisition to enhance our genetic screening business by expanding our product offerings to diagnostics, academic and industrial end markets. We paid the shareholders of chemagen approximately $35.0 million in cash at the closing for the stock of chemagen, plus potential additional consideration of up to $20.3 million. The purchase price is also subject to potential adjustments for chemagen’s indebtedness, working capital as of the closing date, and indemnification obligations of chemagen’s equity holders. We expect to report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Acquisition of VisEn Medical Inc. In July 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of VisEn Medical Inc. (“VisEn”). VisEn is an in vivo molecular imaging technology company. We expect this acquisition to enhance our cellular imaging business by expanding our technologies and capabilities into preclinical research undertaken in academic institutes and pharmaceutical companies. We paid the equity holders of VisEn $23.0 million in cash for the stock of VisEn, of which $18.2 million was paid at closing and an additional amount of $4.8 million is held in an escrow account to secure potential adjustments for VisEn’s indebtedness, working capital as of the closing date, and indemnification obligations of VisEn’s equity holders. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we finalized the purchase price and related allocation resulting in an increase in deferred tax assets, included in long-term liabilities, of $8.5 million and a decrease in goodwill of $8.5 million. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of Signature Genomic Laboratories, LLC. In May 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of SGL Newco, Inc., the parent company of Signature Genomic Laboratories, LLC (“Signature Genomic”). Signature Genomic is a provider of diagnostic cytogenetic testing of chromosome abnormalities in individuals with unexplained physical and developmental disabilities. We expect this acquisition to expand our existing genetic testing business and expand our position in early detection of disease, specifically in the molecular diagnostics market. We paid the equity holders of Signature Genomic $90.0 million in cash, of which $77.5 million was paid at closing and an additional amount of $12.5 million is held in an escrow account to secure certain adjustments for Signature Genomic’s indebtedness, working capital as of the closing date, and indemnification obligations of Signature Genomic’s equity holders. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of Remaining Interest in the Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry Joint Venture. In May 2010, we acquired the remaining fifty percent equity interest in our joint venture (the “ICPMS Joint Venture”) with the company previously known as MDS, Inc. for the development and manufacturing of our Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (“ICPMS”) product line and other related tangible assets from DH Technologies Development Pte Ltd., a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation (“Danaher”). We expect this acquisition will help support the continued success of the premier ICPMS product line by allowing us to direct development with a dedicated and consistent approach. The fair value of the acquisition was $67.7 million, including cash consideration of $35.0 million, non-cash consideration of $2.6 million for certain non-exclusive rights to intangible assets we own, and $30.4 million representing the fair value of our fifty percent equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture held prior to the acquisition. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $25.6 million from the re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture. This pre-tax gain is reported in interest and other (income) expense, net, for fiscal year 2010. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.  

We recently took the following additional actions to further strengthen our core businesses:  

Restructuring:  

During fiscal year 2010, we incurred a $12.6 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. We also recognized an $11.6 million pre-tax restructuring charge in the Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. Our management approved these plans principally to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets and to reduce resources in response to the continued economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain other end markets. The restructuring costs for the closure of excess facility space were offset by the recognition of a $3.0 million gain that had been deferred from a previous sales-leaseback transaction on this facility. We also recorded a pre-tax restructuring reversal of $2.3 million relating to our previous restructuring plans due to lower than expected costs associated with workforce reductions in Europe within both the Human Health and Environmental Health segments. The pre-tax restructuring activity associated with these plans has been reported as restructuring  

4  

Table of Contents 

 expenses and is included as a component of operating expenses from continuing operations. We expect the impact of immediate cost savings from these restructuring plans on operating results and cash flows to approximately offset the increased spending in higher growth regions and the decline in revenue from certain products, respectively. We expect the impact of future cost savings from these restructuring activities on operating results and cash flows to be negligible, as we will incur offsetting costs.  

Discontinued Operations:  

Divestiture of Illumination and Detection Solutions Business. In November 2010, we sold our Illumination and Detection Solutions (“IDS”) business, which was included in our Environmental Health segment, for approximately $500.0 million, $482.0 million net of payments for acquired cash balances, subject to an adjustment for working capital as of the closing date. We expect the divestiture of our IDS business to reduce the complexity of our product offerings and organizational structure, and to provide capital to reinvest in other Human Health and Environmental Health end markets. The buyer acquired our IDS business through the purchase of all outstanding stock of certain of our subsidiaries located in Germany, Canada, China, Indonesia, the Philippines, the United Kingdom and the United States as well as the purchase of related assets and the assumption of liabilities held by us and certain of our subsidiaries located in Singapore and Germany. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $315.3 million, inclusive of the net working capital adjustment, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 as a result of the sale of our IDS business. The gain was recognized as a gain on the disposition of discontinued operations.  

Divestiture of Photoflash Business. In June 2010, we sold our Photoflash business for approximately $13.5 million, including a net working capital adjustment, plus potential additional consideration. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $4.4 million, inclusive of the net working capital adjustment, in fiscal year 2010 as a result of the sale. The gain was recognized as a gain on the disposition of discontinued operations.  

As part of our ongoing business strategy, we also took the following action:  

Share Repurchase Program:  

On October 23, 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors (our “Board”) authorized us to repurchase up to 10.0 million shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”). On August 31, 2010, we announced that our Board had authorized us to repurchase an additional 5.0 million shares of common stock under the Repurchase Program. The Repurchase Program will expire on October 22, 2012 unless terminated earlier by our Board, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2008, we repurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $18.0 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During fiscal year 2009, we repurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $14.2 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During fiscal year 2010, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $71.5 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. As of January 2, 2011, approximately 10.0 million shares of our common stock remained available for repurchase from the 15.0 million shares authorized by our Board under the Repurchase Program. From January 3, 2011 through February 24, 2011, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $80.6 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program.  

Business Segments and Products  

We report our business in two segments: Human Health and Environmental Health. We performed our annual impairment testing on January 4, 2010, the annual impairment date for our reporting units, and based on the first step of the impairment process (the comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if the carrying value exceeds the fair value), we concluded that there was no goodwill impairment.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Human Health Segment  

Our Human Health segment concentrates on developing diagnostics, tools and applications to help detect diseases earlier and more accurately and to accelerate the discovery and development of critical new therapies. Within the Human Health segment, we serve both the diagnostics and research markets. Our Human Health segment generated sales of $796.3 million in fiscal year 2010.  

Diagnostics Market:  

We provide early detection for genetic disorders from pre-conception to early childhood, as well as digital x-ray flat panel detectors for the diagnostics market. Our screening products are designed to provide early and accurate insights into the health of expectant mothers during pregnancy and into the health of their newborns. Our instruments, reagents and software test and screen for disorders and diseases, including Down syndrome, infertility, anemia and diabetes. Our digital x-ray flat panel detectors are used by physicians to make faster and more accurate diagnoses of conditions ranging from broken bones to reduced blood flow in vascular systems. In addition, our digital x-ray flat panel detectors improve oncology treatments by focusing radiation directly at tumors.  

Research Market:  

In the research market, we provide a broad suite of solutions including reagents, liquid handling and detection technologies that enable researchers to improve the drug discovery process. These applications, solutions and services enable pharmaceutical companies to create better therapeutics by helping to bring such products to market faster and more efficiently. Our research portfolio includes a wide range of systems consisting of instrumentation for automation and detection solutions, cellular imaging and analysis hardware and software, and a portfolio of consumables products, including drug discovery and research reagents. We sell our research solutions to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic research customers globally.  

Principal Products:  

Our principal products for Human Health applications include:  

Diagnostics:  

   •    The DELFIA® Xpress screening platform is a complete solution for prenatal screening, including a fast, continuous loading system supported by kits for both first and second trimester analyses, and clinically validated LifeCycle™ software.  

   •    The NeoGram™ MS/MS AAAC in vitro diagnostic kit is used to support detection of metabolic disorders in newborns by tandem mass spectrometry.  

   •    The Ultra-Screen® screening protocol is used to provide a first trimester prenatal screening service by combining ultrasound measurement of the fluid accumulation behind the neck of the fetus with maternal serum markers. It is designed to assess patient-specific risk for Down syndrome, trisomy 18 and other chromosomal abnormalities.  

   •    The Spectral Genomics array comparative genomic hybridization service provides gene expression validation, molecular karyotyping and genome profiling.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    The NeoBase Non-derivatized MSMS kit analyzes newborn blood samples for measurement of amino acids and analytes for specific disease states.  

   •    The child health system steroid profiling kit and data suite software is the first commercial clinical endocrinology assay that can simultaneously measure ten different steroids in biological samples.  

6  

Table of Contents 

   •    BACs-on-Beads™ (“BoBs™”) technology rapidly and cost effectively detects chromosomal abnormalities.  

   •    The amorphous silicon digital x-ray flat panel detectors contain an enabling technology for digital x-ray imaging that replaces film and produces improved image resolution and diagnostic capability in applications such as radiography, cardiology, angiography and cancer treatments.  

Research:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    The Columbus™ data management system archives, manages, retrieves and protects images and analyzes results. The Columbus™ software, which is part of that system, is a flexible, convenient solution for high-volume image storage and management.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    The UltraVIEW® VoX 3D™ live cell imaging system is a high-resolution, high speed, confocal imaging system that allows for the observation and measurement of cellular and molecular processes in real time.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    The JANUS® Automated Workstation, an automation and liquid handling system, is designed for the efficient automation of sample preparation procedures utilized in pharmaceutical, biotech, and research applications.  

   •    The cell::explorer™ and plate::handler™ automated workstations allow integration of multiple laboratory instrumentation using a centralized robotic interface, allowing higher throughput and turnkey-application focused solutions.  

   •    Over 100 patented no-wash AlphaLISA® high-sensitivity assay kits provide for the detection of a broad range of small biomolecular to large protein complexes in a variety of sample types including serum, plasma, cell lysates and cell supernatants.  

   •    A wide range of homogeneous biochemical and cellular assay reagents are used for the major drug discovery targets such as G-protein coupled receptors, kinases and epigenetic modification enzymes. 

   •    Proprietary LANCE® Ultra assay platform is validated for over 300 kinases.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    A broad portfolio of recombinant G protein-coupled receptors (“GPCR”) and Ion Channel cell lines includes over 300 products and 120 ready-to use frozen cell lines for a wide range of disease areas.  

   •    TSA™ Plus biotin kits can increase sensitivity of histochemistry and cytochemistry as much as 10 to 20 times.  

7  

Table of Contents 

   •    The EnSpire™ multimodal plate reader is compatible with high performance Alpha, quad-monochromators for fluorescence intensity and absorbance, ultra-sensitive luminescence and temperature control, delivers high performance detection and easy-to-use software in an affordable platform, and is designed to be adaptable for any size laboratory.  

   •    Western BLAST™ kits, a novel approach to chromogenic Western Blotting, amplify signal and yield sensitivity comparable to chemiluminescent techniques.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

New Products:  

Significant new products introduced or acquired for Human Health applications in fiscal year 2010 include:  

Diagnostics:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    The prenatal BoBs™ in vitro diagnostic (“IVD”) assay for rapid prenatal testing of multiple genetic diseases, for use in the European Union is the first IVD product from the BoBs™ proprietary multiplexed bead-based technology product family.  

   •    Through the acquisition of Signature Genomic, Signature’s microarray diagnostic technology is offered for both pre-natal and post-natal identification of DNA alterations associated with genetic disease.  

   •    New imaging sub-systems for cancer treatment are available through our joint development and marketing agreement with LinaTech.  

   •    The new XRD 0822 and XRD 1622 digital x-ray flat panel detectors provide non-destructive testing applications including pipeline inspection, film replacement, manufacturing inspection, 3D Cone Beam Ct and PCB inspection.  

Research:  

   •    Our first panel of homogeneous assays for detecting epigenetic histone modifications, is based on our proprietary Alpha and LANCE® Ultra platforms.  

   •    A new version of Columbus™ Image data management and analysis software is now available; Columbus Scope™ software suite is designed for microscopy labs providing an affordable, ready-to-go solution for managing the large volumes of data that cellular imaging experiments generate over time.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    The Columbus™ 2.0 image data management software platform is a new edition of our flagship HCS data management software for cellular imaging and analysis. The Western lighting™ ultra chemiluminescent substrate kit is designed for demanding applications for measuring post-translational modifications of weakly expressed proteins.  

   •    The LANCE® Ultra cAMP detection kit facilitates screening of complex G-protein coupled receptors for therapeutic research.  

8  

Table of Contents 

   •    Twelve new cell lines and 72 frozen cells have been added to our portfolio. We provide the largest collection of validated cell lines for GPCR research and high throughput screening (“HTS”)-friendly cellular testing for agonist and antagonist pharmacology.  

   •    Our AlphaLISA® “No-Wash” research products were expanded with the introduction of 28 new highly sensitive cell signaling pathway and biomarker research assay kits that provide researchers with additional data to help advance the study of diseases including cancer, inflammatory and neurodegenerative disorders.  

   •    The in vivo fluorescence agent portfolio and fluorescence molecular tomographic (“FMT”) imaging systems acquired through our purchase of VisEn provide true quantitative imaging data that can be useful for identifying and characterizing a range of disease biomarkers and therapeutic efficacy in animal models.  

   •    The Western Lighting™ Ultra chemiluminescent kits were designed for measuring post-translational modifications of weakly expressed proteins. With sensitivity, a wide range and stable signal, this kit helps reduce the use of primary antibodies by tenfold, providing more information from smaller samples for faster and more economical research outcomes.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    Expanding our small robotic portfolio with the addition of three new plate::handler™ workstations allow customers access to robotic automation capabilities with a compact footprint and more affordable price.  

   •    New stacker and dispenser options for EnSpire™ give customers even more flexibility and better performance in a variety of key assays. The dispenser allows volumes as low as 1µl to be dispensed, making it ideal for assay miniaturization. It also features cell dispensing capabilities and is well designed for multi-user environments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Brand Names:  

Our Human Health segment offers additional products under various brand names, including AlphaLISA®, AlphaScreen®, AutoDELFIA®, Envision®, Evolution™, Genoglyphix®, JANUS®, LANCE®, LifeCycle™, NEN®, MultiPROBE®, NTD Labs®, Opera®, Packard®, ScanArray™, Specimen Gate™, ViaCord®, VICTOR™, Wizard®, and XRD amorphous silicon FPDs™.  

Environmental Health Segment  

Our Environmental Health segment provides technologies and applications to facilitate the creation of safer food and consumer products, more secure surroundings and efficient energy resources. The Environmental Health segment serves the environmental and safety, industrial and laboratory services markets. Our Environmental Health segment generated sales of $908.0 million in fiscal year 2010.  

Environmental and Safety Markets:  

For the environmental and safety markets, we provide analytical technologies that address the quality of our environment, sustainable energy development, and help ensure safer food and consumer products.  

Our technologies are used to detect and help reduce the impact products and industrial processes may have on our environment. For example, our water quality solutions help ensure the purity of the world’s water supply by detecting harmful substances, such as trace metal, organic, pesticide, chemical and radioactive contaminants.  

9  

Table of Contents 

 Through the products, training, support and service offerings of our EcoAnalytix™ initiative, we deliver systems that combine applications, methodologies, standard operating procedures and training for the specific analyses required.  

We provide a variety of solutions that detect the presence of potentially dangerous materials, including lead and phthalates, in toys and other consumer products to help ensure their safety for use or consumption. Our solutions are also used to identify and prevent counterfeiting of medicine and other goods. Our methods and analyses are transferable throughout the supply chain so our customers keep pace with industry and international regulations and certifications.  

Industrial Market:  

We provide analytical instrumentation and digital x-ray detectors for the industrial market which includes the semiconductor, chemical, petrochemical, lubricant, construction, office equipment and quality assurance industries.  

Laboratory Services Market:  

We have over 1,350 service engineers to support our customers throughout the world and to help them improve the productivity of their labs. Our OneSource® service business strategy is aligned with customer’s needs to consolidate laboratory services and improve efficiencies within their labs.  

Principal Products:  

Our principal products for Environmental Health applications include:  

   •    The Clarus® series of gas chromatographs, gas chromatographs/mass spectrometers and the TurboMatrix™ family of sample-handling equipment are used for compound identification and quantization in the environmental, forensics, food and beverage, hydrocarbon processing/biofuels, materials testing, pharmaceutical and semiconductor industries.  

   •    The atomic spectroscopy family of instruments, including the AAnalyst™ series of atomic absorption spectrometers, the Optima™ family of inductively coupled plasma (“ICP”) optical emission spectrometers and the NexION® family of ICP mass spectrometers, are used in the environmental and chemical industries, among others, to determine the elemental content of a sample.  

   •    The Raman spectroscopy instruments provide laboratories with the ability to analyze solids, liquids, powders, gels, slurries and aqueous solutions in bulk or to address variations in sample distribution with imaging. The technology applies to a wide range of sectors including pharmaceuticals, industrial, forensics and academia and permits automatic high throughput screening of materials such as foods and pharmaceuticals.  

   •    The DMA 8000, a thermal analysis system, is used by scientists in the polymers, composites, pharmaceutical, and food and beverage industries for applications ranging from simple quality control to advanced research.  

   •    The Spectrum™ high performance Fourier transform infrared and Fourier transform near-infrared spectrometers provide a wide range of capabilities for infrared analysis in pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals, polymers, plastics and many other industries.  

   •    The Flexar™ liquid chromatography platform, which is controlled by the new Chromera® chromatography data system, incorporates a new ergonomic industrial design to deliver a wide range of pressure and detector options to address the application needs of high pressure liquid chromatography laboratories. These systems are used to identify and quantify compounds for applications in the environmental, food, beverage, and pharmaceutical industries.  

10  

Table of Contents 

   •    The DSC 8000 and 8500 feature a second generation, power controlled double furnace designed to provide fast heating and cooling rates required to accurately understand how materials behave under different conditions.  

   •    LABWORKS™ 6.2 delivers a laboratory information management system with a zero footprint Web client, which can be effectively deployed with minimal user training and is designed to consistently perform on a wide variety of Web browsers.  

New Products:  

New products introduced or acquired for Environmental Health applications in fiscal year 2010 include:  

   •    The Flexar™ SQ 300 MS Single-Quad LC/MS detection system enables efficient and reliable ionization of compounds in both positive and negative modes for the efficient analysis of a broad range of analytes.  

   •    The NexION® 300 inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer, with patented Universal Cell Technology™, allow analysts to choose the most appropriate technique for a specific sample or application, maximizing productivity without compromising sensitivity or performance.  

   •    The Atomax™ line of 1.5 inch hollow cathode lamps are designed as high quality lighting sources that can be used with any 1.5 inch format commercial atomic absorption spectrometer.  

   •    The Velocity series capillary GC columns are fused silica columns designed for standard laboratory applications on the Clarus® GC and any other commercial GC instrument. The columns provide a combination of efficiency, performance and price and are used in the environmental, petrochemical, food and pharmaceutical industries.  

Brand Names:  

Our Environmental Health segment offers additional products under various brand names, including Chromera™, EcoAnalytix®, HyperDSC®, LAMBDA™, LABWORKS™, OneSource®, and Spectrum™.  

Marketing  

All of our businesses market their products and services directly through their own specialized sales forces. As of January 2, 2011, we employed approximately 3,000 sales and service representatives operating in approximately 35 countries and marketing products and services in more than 150 countries. In geographic regions where we do not have a sales and service presence, we utilize distributors to sell our products.  

Raw Materials, Key Components and Supplies  

Each of our businesses uses a wide variety of raw materials, key components and supplies that are generally available from alternate sources of supply and in adequate quantities from domestic and foreign sources. We generally have multi-year contracts, with no minimum purchase requirements, with certain of our suppliers. For certain critical raw materials, key components and supplies required for the production of some of our principal products, we have qualified only a limited or a single source of supply. We periodically purchase quantities of some of these critical raw materials in excess of current requirements, in anticipation of future manufacturing needs. With sufficient lead times, we believe we would be able to qualify alternative suppliers for each of these raw materials and key components. See the applicable risk factor in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for an additional description of this issue.  

Intellectual Property  

We own numerous United States and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the United States and abroad. We also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear  

11  

Table of Contents 

 royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. In addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. We also own numerous United States and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the United States and abroad. We believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. We do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments.  

In some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors’ patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties’ intellectual property rights. Litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. An adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. We are currently involved in several lawsuits involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of these matters.  

Backlog  

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business.  

Competition  

Due to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. This affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. Our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments.  

We compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. Competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. We expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors.  

We believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition.  

Research and Development  

Research and development expenditures were approximately $95.4 million during fiscal year 2010, approximately $90.8 million during fiscal year 2009, and approximately $93.0 million during fiscal year 2008.  

We directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental and safety, industrial and laboratory services markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. We expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2011, and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental and safety, industrial and laboratory services markets within our Environmental Health segment.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Environmental Matters  

Our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. These requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees.  

We may have liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. We have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes.  

We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. We accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. We have accrued $6.0 million as of January 2, 2011, which represents our management’s estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. This amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where we have been named a PRP, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. We expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. As assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. While it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded.  

In addition, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we settled an insurance claim resulting from a fire that occurred at our facility in Boston, Massachusetts in March 2005. We accrued $9.7 million representing our management’s estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters, which was damaged in the fire. We paid $2.5 million during fiscal year 2009, $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. We sold the building on April 27, 2010. Net proceeds from the sale were $11.0 million, and we recorded a pre-tax gain of $3.4 million in operating income.  

We may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs.  

Employees  

As of January 2, 2011, we employed approximately 6,200 employees in our continuing operations, compared to employing approximately 8,200 employees in our continuing operations one year earlier. The primary reason for the decrease in the number of our employees is due to the sale of our IDS business, which was partially offset by investments in higher growth geographic regions. Several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers’ councils. As of January 2, 2011, we employed an aggregate of approximately 800 union and workers’ council employees. We consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory.  

13  

Table of Contents 

Financial Information About Reporting Segments  

The expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, have been included as “Corporate” below. We have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when such costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. These amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments.  

The table below sets forth sales and operating income (loss) by reporting segment for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Discontinued operations have not been included in the preceding table.  

Additional information relating to our reporting segments for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

14  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas  

Both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the United States. During fiscal year 2010, we had $1,034.4 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 61% of our total sales. During fiscal year 2010, we derived approximately 43% of our international sales from our Human Health segment, and approximately 57% of our international sales from our Environmental Health segment. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future.  

We are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. Additional geographic information is discussed in Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.  

Item 1A. Risk Factors