Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

This annual report on Form 10-K, including the following management’s discussion and analysis, contains forward-looking information that you should read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements that we have included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. For this purpose, any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “will” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the plans, intentions or expectations we disclose in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included important factors above under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A above that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We are not obligated to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  

Accounting Period  

Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest December 31. We report fiscal years under a 52/53 week format. Under this method, certain years will contain 53 weeks. The fiscal year ended January 2, 2011 included 52 weeks. The fiscal years ended January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008 included 53 weeks and 52 weeks, respectively. The fiscal year ended January 1, 2012 will include 52 weeks.  

Overview of Fiscal Year 2010  

During fiscal year 2010, we continued to see positive signs of recovery from the global economic contraction across most of our end markets and geographies, in addition to good performance from investments in our ongoing technology and sales and marketing initiatives. Our overall sales in fiscal year 2010 increased $153.6 million, or 10%, as compared to fiscal year 2009, reflecting an increase of $64.7 million, or 9%, in our Human Health segment sales and an increase of $88.9 million, or 11%, in our Environmental Health segment sales. The increase in our Human Health segment sales during fiscal year 2010 was due primarily to increased demand for our medical imaging products with the expansion of panel usage for diagnostic, oncology and non-medical applications and the easing of capital budget constraints in major hospitals in the diagnostics market, as well as increased growth in the academic sector for both instruments and reagents in the research market. These increases were partially offset by the impact of lower birth rates in the United States and tight inventory management in state and national labs for neonatal screening in the diagnostics market, as well as continued constrained capital spending within our pharmaceutical customers in the research market, particularly in the area of high throughput screening. Customer consolidations in the pharmaceutical market also had an unfavorable impact on our research business. The increase in our Environmental Health segment sales during fiscal year 2010 was due primarily to the increase in our OneSource® multivendor service offering, which we expanded in markets beyond our traditional customer base and services, as well as growth in our environmental, food and consumer safety and testing products. We also experienced continued growth in traditional chemical markets with the reduction of constraints on capital purchases to rebuild capacity as a result of the cyclical recovery and increased demand after the extended period of delayed capital investment.  

In our Human Health segment, we experienced strong growth in sales in the diagnostics market related to increased demand for our medical imaging products and continued growth in our prenatal offerings within the genetic screening business during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. The increased demand for our medical imaging products resulted from improved market conditions that lessened the constraints on medical providers’ capital budgets, allowing us to increase our customer base, as well as expanding into non-medical applications. The performance within our genetic screening business was driven by continued expansion of prenatal screening platforms, with broad-based growth experienced across all major geographies, particularly in China with continued expansion of our newborn screening business through our acquisition of Sym-Bio LifeScience Co., Ltd. (“Sym-Bio”) in fiscal year 2009. In the research market, demand for our reagents and  

32  

Table of Contents 

 instrumentation was encouraging in the academic sector. We saw strong demand for our high-end Opera® cellular imaging systems, EnSpire™ plate readers and proprietary Alpha detection reagents, which are all specifically developed to address the growing needs of the academic sector. We are refocusing resources to meet our pharmaceutical customer’s evolving needs. As these customers shift their spending on downstream technologies in pre-clinical research, we are well positioned with our in-vivo imaging offering, available through our newly acquired VisEn business. As the rising cost of healthcare continues to be one of the critical issues facing our customers, we anticipate that even with continued pressure on lab budgets and credit availability, the benefits of providing earlier detection of disease, which can result in savings of long-term health care costs as well as creating better outcomes for patients, are increasingly valued and we expect to see continued growth in these markets.  

In our Environmental Health segment, our laboratory services business enables our customers to drive efficiencies, increase production time and reduce maintenance costs, all of which continue to be critical for our customers. During fiscal year 2010, we continued to grow by adding new customers to our OneSource® multivendor service offering, which we expanded in markets beyond our traditional customer base and services. Sales of environmental, food and consumer safety and testing products grew in fiscal year 2010 due to the continued global need for robust contaminant identification solutions, particularly for trace metals analysis in water. This trend drove the demand for our inorganic analysis solutions such as our Optima 7000 and our recently launched NexION® mass spectrometer. We also continued to experience strong demand for quality and safety assurance testing equipment in food and pharmaceuticals throughout the global supply chain. In addition, we continued to see signs of recovery in our traditional chemical markets with the reduction of constraints on capital purchases to rebuild capacity as a result of the cyclical recovery and increased demand after an extended period of delayed capital investments. We believe that the need for increased inspection, testing and tracking of contaminants will continue to drive increased demand for our products.  

Our consolidated gross margins decreased approximately 60 basis points in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 due to changes in product mix, with growth in sales of lower gross margin product offerings, partially offset by productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives. Our consolidated operating margin improved approximately 120 basis points in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009, primarily the result of increased sales volume and cost containment initiatives, partially offset by restructuring activities, increased pension expenses, initial costs on key growth initiatives and the early stage dilution from our recent acquisitions, specifically Signature Genomic and VisEn.  

We believe we are well positioned to continue to take advantage of the improved spending trends in our end markets and to promote our efficiencies in markets where current conditions may increase demand for certain services. Overall, we believe that our strategic focus on Human Health and Environmental Health coupled with our breadth of end markets, deep portfolio of technologies and applications, leading market positions, global scale and financial strength will provide us with a strong foundation for continued growth.  

Consolidated Results of Continuing Operations  

Sales  

2010 Compared to 2009. Sales for fiscal year 2010 were $1,704.3 million, as compared to $1,550.8 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $153.6 million, or 10%, which includes an approximate 2% increase in sales attributable to acquisitions and no net impact from changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment sales for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and acquisitions. The total increase in sales reflects a $64.7 million, or 9%, increase in our Human Health segment sales, due to an increase in diagnostics market sales of $54.5 million and an increase in research market sales of $10.2 million. Our Environmental Health segment sales increased $88.9 million, or 11%, due to increases in environmental and safety and industrial markets sales of $47.5 million, and an increase in laboratory services market sales of $41.4 million.  

33  

Table of Contents 

2009 Compared to 2008. Sales for fiscal year 2009 were $1,550.8 million, as compared to $1,659.7 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $108.9 million, or 7%, which includes an approximate 3% decrease in sales attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates and an approximate 1% increase from acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment sales for fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and acquisitions. The total decrease in sales reflects a $37.0 million, or 5%, decrease in our Human Health segment sales, due to a decrease in diagnostics market sales of $22.8 million and a decrease in research market sales of $14.2 million. Our Environmental Health segment sales decreased $71.9 million, or 8%, due to decreases in environmental and safety and industrial markets sales of $81.7 million, partially offset by an increase in laboratory services market sales of $9.8 million.  

Cost of Sales  

2010 Compared to 2009. Cost of sales for fiscal year 2010 was $945.7 million, as compared to $851.8 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of approximately $93.9 million, or 11%. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales increased to 55.5% in fiscal year 2010 from 54.9% in fiscal year 2009, resulting in a decrease in gross margin of approximately 60 basis points to 44.5% in fiscal year 2010 from 45.1% in fiscal year 2009. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $42.5 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $36.3 million for fiscal year 2009. Stock option expense decreased and was $0.6 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $1.2 million for fiscal year 2009. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $1.1 million for fiscal year 2009. The decrease in gross margin was primarily the result of changes in product mix, with growth in sales in fiscal year 2010 primarily of lower gross margin product offerings, partially offset by increased sales volume, productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives.  

2009 Compared to 2008. Cost of sales for fiscal year 2009 was $851.8 million, as compared to $926.0 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of approximately $74.2 million, or 8%. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales decreased to 54.9% in fiscal year 2009 from 55.8% in fiscal year 2008, resulting in an increase in gross margin of approximately 90 basis points to 45.1% in fiscal year 2009 from 44.2% in fiscal year 2008. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $36.3 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $35.7 million for fiscal year 2008. Stock option expense decreased and was $1.2 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $1.4 million for fiscal year 2008. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $1.1 million for fiscal year 2009. The increase in gross margin was primarily the result of the combined favorable impact of changes in product mix, especially growth in sales of higher gross margin product offerings, productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives, partially offset by lower demand.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

2010 Compared to 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2010 were $490.7 million, as compared to $468.3 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of approximately $22.4 million, or 5%. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 28.8% in fiscal year 2010, compared to 30.2% in fiscal year 2009. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $16.6 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $15.8 million for fiscal year 2009. Stock option expense decreased and was $5.1 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $6.3 million for fiscal year 2009. The gain on the sale of a facility in Boston, Massachusetts that was damaged in a fire in March 2005 was $3.4 million for fiscal year 2010. Purchase accounting adjustments for contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $2.8 million for fiscal year 2010 and $1.7 million for fiscal year 2009. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased pension expense and foreign exchange, partially offset by cost containment initiatives.  

34  

Table of Contents 

2009 Compared to 2008. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2009 were $468.3 million, as compared to $486.4 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of approximately $18.1 million, or 4%. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 30.2% in fiscal year 2009, compared to 29.3% in fiscal year 2008. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $15.8 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $15.0 million for fiscal year 2008. Stock option expense decreased and was $6.3 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $7.3 million for fiscal year 2008. Purchase accounting adjustments for contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $1.7 million for fiscal year 2009. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of cost containment initiatives, partially offset by increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased pension expenses and foreign exchange.  

Research and Development Expenses  

2010 Compared to 2009. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2010 were $95.4 million, as compared to $90.8 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $4.6 million, or 5%. As a percentage of sales, research and development expenses decreased to 5.6% in fiscal year 2010, as compared to 5.9% in fiscal year 2009. Amortization of intangible assets decreased and was $1.6 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $2.0 million for fiscal year 2009. Research and development expenses also included stock option expense of $0.4 million for each of the fiscal years 2010 and 2009. We directed research and development efforts similarly during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental and safety, and laboratory service and support markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives.  

2009 Compared to 2008. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2009 were $90.8 million, as compared to $93.0 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $2.3 million, or 2%. As a percentage of sales, research and development expenses increased to 5.9% in fiscal year 2009, as compared to 5.6% in fiscal year 2008. Amortization of intangible assets decreased and was $2.0 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $2.1 million for fiscal year 2008. Research and development expenses also included stock option expense of $0.4 million for each of the fiscal years 2009 and 2008. We directed research and development efforts similarly during fiscal years 2009 and 2008, primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental and safety, and laboratory service and support markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives.  

Restructuring and Lease Charges, Net  

We have undertaken a series of restructuring actions related to the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, alignment with our growth strategy and the integration of our business units. Restructuring and lease charges, net, for fiscal year 2010 were a $19.0 million charge, as compared to an $18.0 million charge for fiscal year 2009 and a $6.7 million charge for fiscal year 2008.  

35  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes our restructuring accrual balances and related activity by restructuring plan during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The restructuring plan for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 was intended principally to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets. The restructuring plans for the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 and the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 were intended principally to reduce resources in response to the continued economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets and to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets. The restructuring plan for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 was intended principally to reduce resources in response to the economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets. The activities associated with these plans have been reported as restructuring expenses and are included as a component of operating expenses from continuing operations. We expect the impact of immediate cost savings from these restructuring plans on operating results and cash flows to approximately offset the increased spending in higher growth regions and the decline in revenue from certain products, respectively. We expect the impact of future cost savings from these restructuring activities on operating results and cash flows to be negligible, as we will incur offsetting costs.  

Q4 2010 Plan  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, our management approved a plan to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (our “Q4 2010 Plan”). As a result of our Q4 2010 Plan, we recognized a $5.6 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. We also recognized a $7.6 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. The restructuring costs for the closure of excess facility space was offset by the recognition of a $2.8 million gain that had been deferred from a previous sales-leaseback transaction on this facility.  

As part of our Q4 2010 Plan, we reduced headcount by 113 employees. All notifications and actions related to our Q4 2010 Plan were completed by January 2, 2011. All employee relationships have been severed and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $7.9 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $4.1 million for the closure of excess facility space will be paid through fiscal year 2022, in accordance with the terms of the applicable leases.  

36  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes the components of our Q4 2010 Plan activity recognized by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Q2 2010 Plan  

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, our management approved a plan to reduce resources in response to the continued economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets and to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (our “Q2 2010 Plan”). As a result of our Q2 2010 Plan, we recognized a $7.0 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. The restructuring costs for the closure of excess facility space was offset by the recognition of a $0.1 million gain that had been deferred from a previous sales-leaseback transaction on this facility. We also recognized a $3.9 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities.  

As part of our Q2 2010 Plan, we reduced headcount by 115 employees. All notifications and actions related to our Q2 2010 Plan were completed by July 4, 2010. All employee relationships have been severed and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $2.2 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $2.1 million for the closure of excess facility space will be paid through fiscal year 2022, in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease.  

The following table summarizes the components of our Q2 2010 Plan activity recognized by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Q3 2009 Plan  

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, our management approved a plan to reduce resources in anticipation of the economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets and to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (our “Q3 2009 Plan”). As a result of our Q3 2009 Plan, we recognized a $4.3 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of an excess facility. We also recognized a $6.3 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring reversal of $0.5 million relating to our Q3 2009 Plan due to lower than expected costs associated with the workforce reductions in Europe within both of our Human Health and Environmental Health segments.  

37  

Table of Contents 

As part of our Q3 2009 Plan, we reduced headcount by 131 employees. All notifications and actions related to our Q3 2009 Plan were completed by October 4, 2009. All employee relationships have been severed and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $2.0 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $0.1 million for the closure of the excess facility will be paid through fiscal year 2011, in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease.  

The following table summarizes the components of our Q3 2009 Plan activity recognized by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Q1 2009 Plan  

During the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, our management approved a plan to reduce resources in anticipation of the economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets (our “Q1 2009 Plan”). As a result of our Q1 2009 Plan, we recognized a $4.8 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of an excess facility. We also recognized a $2.4 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of an excess facility. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring reversal of $1.2 million relating to our Q1 2009 Plan due to lower than expected costs associated with the workforce reductions in Europe within both of our Human Health and Environmental Health segments.  

As part of our Q1 2009 Plan, we reduced headcount by 106 employees. All notifications and actions related to our Q1 2009 Plan were completed by April 5, 2009. All employee relationships have been severed and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $0.4 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $0.2 million for the closure of the excess facility will be paid through fiscal year 2012, in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease.  

The following table summarizes the components of our Q1 2009 Plan activity recognized by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Previous Restructuring and Integration Plans  

The principal actions of the restructuring and integration plans from fiscal years 2001 through 2008 were workforce reductions related to the integration of our businesses in order to reduce costs and achieve operational efficiencies as well as workforce reductions in both our Human Health and Environmental Health segments by shifting resources into geographic regions and product lines that are more consistent with our growth strategy. During fiscal year 2010, we paid $1.5 million related to these plans, recorded a reversal of $0.9 million related to lower than expected costs associated with workforce reductions in Europe within both the Human Health and Environmental Health segments, and recorded a charge of $0.4 million to reduce the estimated sublease rental  

38  

Table of Contents 

 payments reasonably expected to be obtained for an excess facility in Europe within our Environmental Health segment. As of January 2, 2011, we had approximately $3.7 million of remaining liabilities associated with these restructuring and integration plans, primarily for residual lease obligations related to closed facilities in both our Human Health and Environmental Health segments. Payments for these leases, the terms of which vary in length, will be made through fiscal year 2022.  

Lease Charges  

To facilitate the sale of a business in fiscal year 2001, we were required to guarantee the lease obligations that the buyer assumed related to the lease for the building in which the business operated. The lease obligations continue through March 2011. While we assigned our interest in the lease to the buyer at the time of the sale of the business, the buyer subsequently defaulted under the lease, and the lessor sought reimbursement from us. We recorded a charge of $2.7 million in fiscal year 2007 related to payments for this lease obligation. The buyer filed for bankruptcy protection during the third quarter of fiscal year 2008 and was delinquent in making both its lease payments and payments for certain building expenses. The buyer ceased operations in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 and vacated the property. We recorded an additional charge of $0.9 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 related to waste removal and restoration costs, and reduced the estimated sublease rental payments reasonably expected to be obtained for the property. We also recorded an additional charge of $0.1 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 to further reduce the estimated sublease rental payments reasonably expected to be obtained for the property. We were required to make payments for these obligations of $1.7 million during fiscal year 2010, $1.1 million during fiscal year 2009, and $0.4 million during fiscal year 2008. The remaining balance of this accrual as of January 2, 2011 was $0.5 million.  

Interest and Other (Income) Expense, Net  

Interest and other (income) expense, net, consisted of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 Compared to 2009. Interest and other (income) expense, net for fiscal year 2010 was income of $8.4 million, as compared to an expense of $15.8 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $24.2 million. The increase in interest and other (income) expense, net, in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to the pre-tax gain of $25.6 million related to the required re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture. Interest expense decreased by $0.1 million and interest income decreased by $0.2 million in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009, primarily due to lower interest rates. Other expenses for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 increased by $1.3 million, which consisted primarily of expenses related to foreign currency transactions and foreign currency translation. A more complete discussion of our liquidity is set forth below under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”  

2009 Compared to 2008. Interest and other (income) expense, net for fiscal year 2009 was an expense of $15.8 million, as compared to an expense of $44.0 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $28.3 million. The decrease in interest and other (income) expense, net, in fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to the discontinuance and settlement of forward interest rate contracts with a $17.5 million loss that  

39  

Table of Contents 

 was recognized into interest expense during fiscal year 2008, as well as lower interest rates on outstanding debt balances, partially offset by the increase in the mix of our fixed rate versus variable rate debt. Interest income decreased $3.0 million as a result of lower interest rates on lower cash balances. Other expenses for fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 decreased by $7.3 million, and consisted primarily of expenses related to foreign currency transactions and foreign currency translation.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

2010 Compared to 2009. The fiscal year 2010 provision for income taxes on continuing operations was $26.1 million, as compared to a provision of $31.8 million for fiscal year 2009. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was 16.1% for fiscal year 2010 as compared to 30.0% for fiscal year 2009. The lower effective tax rate in fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to (i) the favorable impact related to the gain on the previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture, and (ii) the favorable settlement of several income tax audits worldwide during fiscal year 2010. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of these settlements.  

2009 Compared to 2008. The fiscal year 2009 provision for income taxes on continuing operations was $31.8 million, as compared to a provision of $12.7 million for fiscal year 2008. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was 30.0% for fiscal year 2009 as compared to 12.3% for fiscal year 2008. The higher effective tax rate in fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to an increase in the expected mix of profits from higher tax rate jurisdictions in fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 and reflects the favorable settlement of several income tax audits worldwide in fiscal year 2008. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of these settlements.  

Discontinued Operations  

As part of our continuing efforts to focus on higher growth opportunities, we have discontinued certain businesses. We have accounted for these businesses as discontinued operations and, accordingly, have presented the results of operations and related cash flows as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of these businesses have been presented separately, and are reflected within the assets and liabilities from discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010.  

We recorded the following pre-tax gains and losses, which have been reported as a gain (loss) on disposition of discontinued operations during the three fiscal years ended:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In November 2010, we sold our Illumination and Detection Solutions (“IDS”) business, which was included in our Environmental Health segment, for approximately $500.0 million, $482.0 million net of payments for acquired cash balances, subject to an adjustment for working capital as of the closing date. We expect the divestiture of our IDS business to reduce the complexity of our product offerings and organizational structure,  

40  

Table of Contents 

 and to provide capital to reinvest in other Human Health and Environmental Health end markets. The buyer acquired our IDS business through the purchase of all outstanding stock of certain of our subsidiaries located in Germany, Canada, China, Indonesia, the Philippines, the United Kingdom and the United States as well as the purchase of related assets and the assumption of liabilities held by us and certain of our subsidiaries located in Singapore and Germany. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $315.3 million, inclusive of the net working capital adjustment, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 as a result of the sale of our IDS business. The gain was recognized as a gain on the disposition of discontinued operations.  

As part of our strategic business alignment into our Human Health and Environmental Health segments, completed at the beginning of fiscal year 2009, and our continuing efforts to focus on higher growth opportunities, in December 2008, our management approved separate plans to divest our Photonics and Photoflash businesses. The distressed economic conditions during fiscal year 2009 adversely impacted our plan to market and sell the Photonics and Photoflash businesses. We implemented a number of actions during fiscal year 2009 to respond to these changing circumstances and continued to actively market these businesses. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we determined that we could not effectively market and sell the Photonics business given the changed circumstances and, after careful consideration, we decided to cease our plan to actively market and sell the Photonics business on a standalone basis. The Photonics business was included with the set of businesses which were sold as our IDS business, as described above. In June 2010, we sold the Photoflash business for approximately $13.5 million, including a net working capital adjustment, plus potential additional contingent consideration. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $4.4 million, inclusive of the net working capital adjustment, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 as a result of the sale. The gain was recognized as a gain on the disposition of discontinued operations.  

In addition, during December 2008, our management approved the shut down of certain instrument businesses within our Human Health segment, including the Cellular Screening Fluorescence and Luminescence workstations, Analytical Proteomics Instruments and Proteomics and Genomics Instruments, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $0.1 million, a pre-tax gain of $0.4 million and a pre-tax loss of $4.8 million related to lease and severance costs and the reduction of fixed assets and inventory to net realizable value during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

In November 2007, we acquired ViaCell, which specializes in the collection, testing, processing and preservation of umbilical cord blood stem cells. Following the ViaCell acquisition, our Board of Directors (our “Board”) approved a plan to sell the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses that were acquired with ViaCell. We determined that both businesses did not strategically fit with the other products offered by our Human Health segment. We also determined that without investing capital into the operations of both businesses, we could not effectively compete with larger companies that focus on the market for such products. After careful consideration, we decided in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008 to shut down the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses. We recorded a pre-tax loss of $8.0 million for severance and facility closure costs during fiscal year 2008 and recorded additional pre-tax losses of $0.1 million and $1.3 million related to facility closure costs during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

During fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we settled various commitments related to the divestiture of other discontinued operations and recognized a pre-tax loss of $1.8 million in fiscal year 2010, a pre-tax loss of $2.1 million in fiscal year 2009 and a pre-tax loss of $0.4 million in fiscal year 2008. During fiscal year 2009, we reached a settlement with the landlord of a closed facility and recognized a pre-tax loss of $1.4 million.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Summary pre-tax operating results of the discontinued operations for the periods prior to disposition were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We recognized a tax provision of $94.0 million on discontinued operations in fiscal year 2010, a tax provision of $4.6 million on discontinued operations in fiscal year 2009 and a tax benefit of $2.1 million in fiscal year 2008 on discontinued operations. The recognition of $94.0 million income tax expense in fiscal year 2010 includes $16.0 million of income tax expense associated with unremitted earnings of directly-owned foreign subsidiaries that no longer qualify as permanently reinvested once the subsidiary is held for sale, and $65.8 million of income tax expense for additional unremitted earnings from foreign subsidiaries associated with the sale of our IDS and Photoflash businesses that do not require the same level of capital as previously required, and therefore we plan to repatriate $250.0 million of cash and have provided for the taxes on the related previously unremitted earnings. The benefit from income taxes of $2.1 million recorded in discontinued operations in fiscal year 2008 includes $8.5 million of income tax benefits related to the favorable settlement of several income tax audits worldwide during the third quarter of fiscal year 2008. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of these settlements.  

Business Combinations and Asset Purchases  

Acquisition of chemagen Biopolymer-Technologie AG. In February 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of chemagen Biopolymer-Technologie AG (“chemagen”). chemagen manufactures and sells nucleic acid sample preparation systems and reagents utilizing M-PVA magnetic bead technology. We expect this acquisition to enhance our genetic screening business by expanding our product offerings to diagnostics, academic and industrial end markets. We paid the shareholders of chemagen approximately $35.0 million in cash at the closing for the stock of chemagen, plus potential additional consideration of up to $20.3 million. The purchase price is also subject to potential adjustments for chemagen’s indebtedness, working capital as of the closing date, and indemnification obligations of chemagen’s equity holders. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and will be allocated to goodwill, none of which will be tax deductible. We expect to report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of VisEn Medical Inc. In July 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of VisEn Medical Inc. (“VisEn”). VisEn is an in vivo molecular imaging technology company. We expect this acquisition to enhance our cellular imaging business by expanding our technologies and capabilities into preclinical research undertaken in academic institutes and pharmaceutical companies. We paid the equity holders of VisEn $23.0 million in cash for the stock of VisEn, of which $18.2 million was paid at closing and an additional amount of $4.8 million is held in an escrow account to secure potential adjustments for VisEn’s indebtedness, working capital as of the closing date, and indemnification obligations of VisEn’s equity holders. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we finalized the purchase price and related allocation resulting in an increase in deferred tax assets, included in long-term liabilities, of $8.5 million and a decrease in goodwill of $8.5 million. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Acquisition of Signature Genomic Laboratories, LLC. In May 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of SGL Newco, Inc., the parent company of Signature Genomic Laboratories, LLC (“Signature Genomic”). Signature Genomic is a provider of diagnostic cytogenetic testing of chromosome abnormalities in individuals with unexplained physical and developmental disabilities. We expect this acquisition to expand our existing genetic testing business and expand our position in early detection of disease, specifically in the molecular diagnostics market. We paid the equity holders of Signature Genomic $90.0 million in cash, of which $77.5 million was paid at closing and an additional amount of $12.5 million is held in an escrow account to secure certain adjustments for Signature Genomic’s indebtedness, working capital as of the closing date, and indemnification obligations of Signature Genomic’s equity holders. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of Remaining Interest in the Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry Joint Venture. In May 2010, we acquired the remaining fifty percent equity interest in our joint venture (the “ICPMS Joint Venture”) with the company previously known as MDS, Inc. for the development and manufacturing of our Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (“ICPMS”) product line and other related tangible assets from DH Technologies Development Pte Ltd., a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation (“Danaher”). We expect this acquisition will help support the continued success of the premier ICPMS product line by allowing us to direct development with a dedicated and consistent approach. The fair value of the acquisition was $67.7 million, including cash consideration of $35.0 million, non-cash consideration of $2.6 million for certain non-exclusive rights to intangible assets owned by us, and $30.4 million representing the fair value of our fifty percent equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture held prior to the acquisition. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $25.6 million from the re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture. This pre-tax gain is reported in interest and other (income) expense, net, for fiscal year 2010. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Purchase of Intangible Assets from GE Healthcare. In September 2009, we purchased the core technology and patents of GE Healthcare’s 3H and 14C Catalog Radiochemicals, Scintillation Proximity Assay (“SPA”) reagents and Cytostar-T plate portfolios for aggregate consideration of $12.0 million in cash. The Catalog Radiochemical products are used for a variety of research applications, including screening of potential drug candidates through binding assays. The SPA bead-based light-emitting assay and Cytostar-T plate technologies are offerings that enable the automation of High Throughput Screening (“HTS”) processes to help drug discovery researchers determine if potential new drug compounds are effective against their intended disease targets. We expect that incorporation of these technologies will strengthen our G-protein-coupled receptor and Kinase research product lines and complement our HTS and research reagent solutions. The core technology and patents that we purchased do not meet the definition of a business, as the purchased assets were not accompanied by any associated processes. As a result, purchased intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We have reported the amortization of these intangible assets within the results of our Human Health segment from the purchase date. We periodically review the carrying value of these assets based, in part, upon current estimated market values and our projections of anticipated future cash flows.  

Acquisition of Sym-Bio LifeScience Co., Ltd. In August 2009, we acquired the outstanding equity interests of Sym-Bio LifeScience Co., Ltd. (“Sym-Bio”). Sym-Bio is a major supplier of diagnostics instruments and related reagents, particularly in the area of infectious diseases, to hospitals in China. We expect this acquisition to expand our access to the hospital market segment in China, offering a larger base from which to expand our prenatal and newborn screening business in the country and providing us with a significant diagnostics manufacturing and research and development base within China. The excess of the purchase price over the fair  

43  

Table of Contents 

 value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired. We paid the shareholders of Sym-Bio approximately $51.2 million in cash for this acquisition plus an additional amount of $12.5 million held in an escrow account for contingencies, of which $7.3 million is for potential additional contingent consideration with a fair value of $6.9 million at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of Analytica of Branford, Inc. In May 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Analytica of Branford, Inc. (“Analytica”). Analytica is a leading developer of mass spectrometry and ion source technology. This acquisition allows us to offer our customers access to critical technologies such as time-of-flight and quadrupole mass spectrometers and new ion sources that provide more complete information as well as better throughput. We also gained significant intellectual property in the field of mass spectrometry and ion source technology. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired. We paid the shareholders of Analytica approximately $21.7 million in cash for this acquisition. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, we agreed to pay approximately $1.1 million to the shareholders of Analytica as additional purchase price for the election to treat the acquisition as a deemed asset sale. Based on the effect of this election, at the acquisition date we have retrospectively adjusted the fiscal year 2009 comparative information. The adjustment resulted in a decrease in deferred tax liability, included in long-term liabilities, of $6.3 million, an increase in accrued expenses of $1.1 million and an increase in other current assets of $0.2 million, offset by a decrease in goodwill of $5.4 million. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, all of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Allocations of the purchase price for acquisitions are based on estimates of the fair value of the net assets acquired and are subject to adjustment upon finalization of the purchase price allocation. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgments as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair values for assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration, are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. Contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date with changes in the fair value after the acquisition date affecting earnings to the extent it is to be settled in cash. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these fair values, the amounts recorded in the financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, or require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets. We do not consider these acquisitions to be material to our results of operations and is therefore not presenting pro forma financial information of operations. We have also determined that the presentation of the results of operations for each of these acquisitions, from the date of acquisition, is impracticable due to the integration of the operations upon acquisition. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional details.  

As of January 2, 2011, the purchase price and related allocation for the acquisitions completed in fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were final. For acquisitions completed subsequent to fiscal year 2008, during the measurement period, we will adjust assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. Adjustments to the initial allocation of the purchase price during the measurement period require the revision of comparative prior period financial information when reissued in subsequent financial statements. The effect of measurement period adjustments to the allocation of the purchase price would be as if the adjustments had been completed on the acquisition date. The effects of measurement period adjustments may cause changes in depreciation, amortization, or other income or expense recognized in prior periods. All changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are included in current period earnings.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Contingencies, Including Tax Matters  

We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. We accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. We have accrued $6.0 million as of January 2, 2011, which represents our management’s estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. This amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where we have been named a PRP, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. We expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. As assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. While it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded.  

Enzo Biochem, Inc. and Enzo Life Sciences, Inc. (collectively, “Enzo”) filed a complaint dated October 23, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Civil Action No. 02-8448, against Amersham plc, Amersham BioSciences, PerkinElmer, Inc., PerkinElmer Life Sciences, Inc., Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, Sigma Chemical Company, Inc., Molecular Probes, Inc., and Orchid BioSciences, Inc. (the “New York Case”). The complaint alleges that we have breached our distributorship and settlement agreements with Enzo, infringed Enzo’s patents, engaged in unfair competition and fraud, and committed torts against Enzo by, among other things, engaging in commercial development and exploitation of Enzo’s patented products and technology, separately and together with the other defendants. Enzo seeks injunctive and monetary relief. In 2003, the court severed the lawsuit and ordered Enzo to serve individual complaints against the five defendants. We subsequently filed an answer and a counterclaim alleging that Enzo’s patents are invalid. In July 2006, the court issued a decision regarding the construction of the claims in Enzo’s patents that effectively limited the coverage of certain of those claims and, we believe, excludes certain of our products from the coverage of Enzo’s patents. Summary judgment motions were filed by the defendants in January 2007, and a hearing with oral argument on those motions took place in July 2007. In January 2009, the case was assigned to a new district court judge and in March 2009, the new judge denied the pending summary judgment motions without prejudice and ordered a stay of the case until the federal appellate court decides Enzo’s appeal of the judgment of the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut in Enzo Biochem vs. Applera Corp. and Tropix, Inc. (the “Connecticut Case”), which involves a number of the same patents and which could materially affect the scope of Enzo’s case against us. On March 26, 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (“CAFC”) affirmed-in-part and reversed-in-part the judgment in the Connecticut Case. Pending further disposition of the Connecticut Case, the New York Case against us and other defendants remains stayed.  

We believe we have meritorious defenses to the matter described above, and we are contesting the action vigorously. While this matter is subject to uncertainty, in the opinion of our management, based on its review of the information available at this time, the resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.  

We re-measured several of our uncertain tax positions related to fiscal years 2006 through 2009 during fiscal years 2010 and 2009 based on new information arising from events during the year that affected positions for those years. We also effectively settled several income tax audits worldwide. The re-measurements and closure of audits included uncertain tax positions in Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, Australia, the Philippines, and the federal and certain state governments within the United States. The net effect of these re-measurements and closure of audits, statute of limitations lapses, provision to return adjustments, interest expense accruals, as  

45  

Table of Contents 

 well as other discrete items, resulted in the recognition of $11.9 million of income tax benefits in continuing operations during fiscal year 2010 and $1.7 million of income tax benefits in continuing operations during fiscal year 2009. During fiscal year 2008, we effectively settled several income tax audits worldwide, including in Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States covering various years ranging from 1998 through 2005. The closing of these audits resulted in the recognition of $15.6 million of income tax benefits in continuing operations and $8.5 million of income tax benefits in discontinued operations. Tax years ranging from 2000 through 2010 remain open to examination by various tax jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations, such as Singapore, Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States. The tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction. We regularly review our tax positions in each significant taxing jurisdiction in the process of evaluating our unrecognized tax benefits. We make adjustments to our unrecognized tax benefits when: (i) facts and circumstances regarding a tax position change, causing a change in management’s judgment regarding that tax position; (ii) a tax position is effectively settled with a tax authority; and/or (iii) the statute of limitations expires regarding a tax position.  

We are also subject to various other claims, legal proceedings and investigations covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business activities. Although we have established accruals for potential losses that we believe are probable and reasonably estimable, in the opinion of our management, based on its review of the information available at this time, the total cost of resolving these other contingencies at January 2, 2011 should not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. However, each of these matters is subject to uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to us.  

Reporting Segment Results of Continuing Operations  

Human Health  

2010 Compared to 2009. Sales for fiscal year 2010 were $796.3 million, as compared to $731.6 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $64.7 million, or 9%, which includes an approximate 3% increase in sales attributable to acquisitions and no net impact from changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by product type for fiscal year 2010, as compared to fiscal year 2009, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in sales in our Human Health segment was primarily a result of an increase in diagnostics market sales of $54.5 million and an increase in research market sales of $10.2 million. This increase in our Human Health segment sales during fiscal year 2010 was due primarily to the increased demand for our medical imaging products in the diagnostics market, as well as increased growth in the academic sector for both instruments and reagents in the research market. The demand for our medical imaging products resulted from improved market conditions that eased the constraints on medical providers’ capital budgets allowing us to increase our customer base, including expanding into non-medical applications. These increases were partially offset by tight inventory management in state and national labs for neonatal screening in the diagnostics market, as well as customer consolidations in the pharmaceutical market and by the continued constrained capital spending within our pharmaceutical customers in the research market.  

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2010 was $96.5 million, as compared to $80.6 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $15.9 million, or 20%. Amortization of intangible assets was $46.7 million and $41.3 million for fiscal year 2010 and fiscal year 2009, respectively. Restructuring and lease charges were $10.4 million for fiscal year 2010 as a result of our Q2 2010 and Q4 2010 Plans, as compared to $9.2 million for fiscal year 2009 as a result of our Q1 2009 and Q3 2009 Plans. The gain on the sale of a facility in Boston, Massachusetts that was damaged in a fire in March 2005 was $3.4 million for fiscal year 2010. Purchase accounting adjustments for contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $1.3 million for each of the fiscal years 2010 and 2009. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2009 was $1.1 million. Increased sales volume and cost containment initiatives increased operating income for fiscal year 2010,  

46  

Table of Contents 

 which was partially offset by changes in product mix with growth in sales in fiscal year 2010 primarily of lower gross margin product offerings, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased pension expenses and foreign exchange.  

2009 Compared to 2008. Sales for fiscal year 2009 were $731.6 million, as compared to $768.7 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $37.0 million, or 5%, which includes an approximate 3% decrease in sales attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by an approximate 1% increase from acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by product type for fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The decrease in sales in our Human Health segment reflects a decrease in diagnostics market sales of $22.8 million and a decrease in research market sales of $14.2 million. This decline in our Human Health segment sales during fiscal year 2009 was due primarily to the decreased demand for our medical imaging products in the diagnostics market, which has resulted from constraints on medical providers’ capital budgets and a lack of financing availability, as well as government stimulus related order delays in the research market, as many of our customers were redirecting their budgets in hopes of obtaining grants for larger instrument purchases.  

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2009 was $80.6 million, as compared to $79.7 million for fiscal year 2008, an increase of $0.8 million, or 1%. Amortization of intangible assets was $41.3 million and $40.7 million for fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008, respectively. Restructuring and lease charges were $9.2 million for fiscal year 2009 as a result of our Q1 2009 and Q3 2009 Plans. Restructuring and lease charges were $3.7 million for fiscal year 2008 as a result of our Q3 2008 Plan. Purchase accounting adjustments for other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $1.3 million. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $1.2 million for fiscal year 2009. The favorable impact of changes in product mix, especially growth in sales of higher gross margin products, productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives increased operating income, which was partially offset by lower demand, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased pension expenses and foreign exchange.  

Environmental Health  

2010 Compared to 2009. Sales for fiscal year 2010 were $908.0 million, as compared to $819.1 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $88.9 million, or 11%, which includes no net impact in sales attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates or acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by product type for fiscal year 2010, as compared to fiscal year 2009, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in sales in our Environmental Health segment was primarily a result of increases in environmental and safety and industrial markets sales of $47.5 million, and an increase in laboratory services market sales of $41.4 million. This increase in our Environmental Health segment sales during fiscal year 2010 was due primarily to the increase in our OneSource® multivendor service offering, which we expanded in markets beyond our traditional customer base and services, as well as growth in our environmental, food and consumer safety and testing products. We also experienced continued growth in traditional chemical markets with the reduction of constraints on capital purchases to rebuild capacity as a result of the cyclical recovery and increased demand after the extended period of delayed capital investment.  

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2010 was $92.3 million, as compared to $75.5 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $16.8 million, or 22%. Amortization of intangible assets was $14.0 million and $12.8 million for fiscal year 2010 and fiscal year 2009, respectively. Restructuring and lease charges were $8.5 million for fiscal year 2010 as a result of our Q2 2010 and Q4 2010 Plans, as compared to $8.8 million for fiscal year 2009 as a result of our Q1 2009 and Q3 2009 Plans. Purchase accounting adjustments for contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $1.5 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to an expense of $0.3 million for fiscal year 2009. Increased sales volume and cost containment initiatives increased operating income for fiscal year 2010, which was partially  

47  

Table of Contents 

 offset by changes in product mix with growth in sales in fiscal year 2010 primarily of lower gross margin product offerings, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased pension expenses and foreign exchange.  

2009 Compared to 2008. Sales for fiscal year 2009 were $819.1 million, as compared to $891.0 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $71.9 million, or 8%, which includes an approximate 3% decrease in sales attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by an approximate 1% increase from acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by product type for fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The decrease in sales in our Environmental Health segment reflects decreases in environmental and safety and industrial markets sales of $81.7 million, partially offset by an increase in laboratory services market sales of $9.8 million. This decline in our Environmental Health segment sales during fiscal year 2009 was due primarily to private and public testing labs and traditional chemical and semiconductor markets reducing capital purchases in response to tight capital budgets and difficulty accessing credit markets, partially offset by an increase in sales in laboratory services and consumer safety and food testing products.  

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2009 was $75.5 million, as compared to $106.2 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $30.6 million, or 29%. Amortization of intangible assets was $12.8 million and $11.8 million for fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008, respectively. Restructuring and lease charges were $8.8 million for fiscal year 2009 as a result of our Q1 2009 and Q3 2009 Plans. Restructuring and lease charges were $2.5 million for fiscal year 2008 as a result of our Q3 2008 Plan. Purchase accounting adjustments for other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $0.3 million. The combined unfavorable impact of decreased sales volume, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased pension expenses and foreign exchange decreased operating income for fiscal year 2009, which was partially offset by productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We require cash to pay our operating expenses, make capital expenditures, make strategic acquisitions, service our debt and other long-term liabilities, repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock. Our principal sources of funds are from our operations and the capital markets, particularly the debt markets. We anticipate that our internal operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, smaller acquisitions, interest payments on our debt and dividends on our common stock. However, we expect to use external sources to satisfy the balance of our debt when due, any larger acquisitions and other long-term liabilities.  

Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally generated funds include:  

   •    deterioration of sales due to weakness in markets in which we sell our products and services, and  

   •    changes in our working capital requirements.  

Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include:  

   •    financial covenants contained in the financial instruments controlling our borrowings that limit our total borrowing capacity,  

   •    increases in interest rates applicable to our outstanding variable rate debt,  

   •    a ratings downgrade that would limit our ability to borrow under our amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our overall access to the corporate debt market,  

   •    increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, that affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis,  

   •    a decrease in the market price for our common stock, and  

   •    volatility in the public debt and equity markets.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Cash Flows  

Fiscal Year 2010  

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $167.2 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to net cash provided by continuing operations of $127.8 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $39.4 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2010 was a result of income from continuing operations of $135.9 million, depreciation and amortization of $89.2 million and restructuring and lease charges, net of $19.0 million. These amounts were partially offset by pre-tax gains of $28.9 million related to the required re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture and asset dispositions, and a net increase in working capital of $32.9 million. Contributing to the net increase in working capital for fiscal year 2010, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, was an increase in inventory of $22.6 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $38.1 million, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable of $27.8 million. The increase in inventory overall was primarily a result of new products within our Environmental Health and Human Health segments to improve responsiveness to customer requirements. The increase in accounts receivable was a result of higher sales volume during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. The increase in accounts payable was primarily a result of the timing of disbursements during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. Changes in accrued expenses, other assets and liabilities and other items, net, decreased cash provided by operating activities by $15.0 million for fiscal year 2010, and primarily related to the timing of payments for tax, restructuring, and salary and benefits, and included the voluntarily contribution made during the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 of $30.0 million to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States for the 2009 plan year.  

Investing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations investing activities was $174.1 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $126.0 million of net cash used in continuing operations investing activities for fiscal year 2009. For fiscal year 2010, we used $145.6 million of net cash for acquisitions and core technology purchases and $4.8 million for earn-out payments, acquired licenses and other costs in connection with these and other transactions. In addition, as part of the ICPMS Joint Venture, we gave Danaher non-cash consideration of $2.6 million for certain non-exclusive rights to intangible assets we own. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2010 were $33.6 million, primarily in the areas of tooling and other capital equipment purchases. Restricted cash balances increased for fiscal year 2010 by $1.1 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by $11.0 million received during the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 from the sale of a facility in Boston, Massachusetts that was damaged in a fire in March 2005.  

Financing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations financing activities was $215.5 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $4.0 million of net cash provided by continuing operations financing activities for fiscal year 2009. For fiscal year 2010, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of our common stock, including 46,572 shares of our common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $72.8 million, including commissions. This compares to repurchases of approximately 1.0 million shares of our common stock, including 28,890 shares of our common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for fiscal year 2009, for a total cost of $14.6 million, including commissions. This use of cash was offset by proceeds from common stock option exercises of $31.4 million, including the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2010. This compares to the proceeds from common stock option exercises of $6.5 million, including the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2009. During fiscal year 2010, debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility totaled $368.0 million, which was offset by debt reductions of $508.8 million. This compares to debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $406.5 million, which was offset by debt reductions of $361.5 million during fiscal year 2009. We paid $33.0 million and $32.7 million in dividends during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we settled $0.1 million in contingent consideration recorded at the acquisition date for acquisitions completed subsequent to fiscal year 2008 during fiscal year 2010.  

49  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal Year 2009  

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $127.8 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to net cash provided by continuing operations of $170.8 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $42.9 million. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2009 was a result of income from continuing operations of $74.3 million, depreciation and amortization of $80.8 million and restructuring and lease charges, net of $18.0 million. These amounts were partially offset by a net increase in working capital of $45.3 million. Contributing to the net increase in working capital in fiscal year 2009, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, was an increase in accounts receivable of $30.4 million, which included the repayment and termination of our accounts receivable securitization facility for $40.0 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $10.4 million and an increase in inventory of $4.5 million. The increase in inventory was primarily the result of lower sales volume and expanding the amount of inventory held at sales locations within our Environmental Health and Human Health segments to improve responsiveness to customer requirements. The decrease in accounts payable was a result of the timing of disbursements during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. The increase in accounts receivable was a result of the repayment and termination of our accounts receivable securitization facility for $40.0 million, partially offset by lower sales volume and strong performance in accounts receivable collections during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. Changes in accrued expenses, other assets and liabilities and other items, net, totaled $0.1 million in fiscal year 2009, and primarily related to tax audit settlements and the timing of payments for tax, restructuring, and salary and benefits.  

Investing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations investing activities was $126.0 million for fiscal year 2009, compared to $119.5 million of cash used in continuing operations investing activities for fiscal year 2008. For fiscal year 2009, we used $93.6 million of net cash for acquisitions and core technology purchases and used $8.3 million for earn-out payments, acquired licenses, related transaction costs for acquisitions completed prior to fiscal year 2009 and other costs in connection with these and other transactions. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2009 were $25.5 million, primarily in the areas of tooling and other capital equipment purchases. These cash outflows were partially offset by $1.4 million related to the release of restricted cash balances.  

Financing Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations financing activities was $4.0 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $101.1 million of cash used in continuing operations financing activities for fiscal year 2008. In fiscal year 2009, we repurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of our common stock, including 28,890 shares to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $14.6 million, including commissions. This compares to repurchases of approximately 3.0 million shares of our common stock, including 37,521 shares to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for fiscal year 2008, for a total cost of $75.5 million, including commissions. This use of cash was offset by proceeds from common stock option exercises of $6.5 million, including the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2009. This compares to the proceeds from common stock option exercises of $44.1 million, including the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2008. During fiscal year 2009, debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility totaled $406.5 million, which was offset by debt reductions of $361.5 million. This compares to debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $476.0 million and proceeds of $150.0 million from the issuance of our seven-year senior unsecured notes at a rate of 6%, which were offset by debt reductions of $633.0 million during fiscal year 2008. In fiscal year 2008, we also paid $27.1 million to settle forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million at a weighted average interest rate of 4.25% and $2.0 million for debt issuance costs. We paid $32.7 million and $33.1 million in dividends during fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Current Borrowing Arrangements  

Amended Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility. On August 13, 2007, we entered into an amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility which provides for a $650.0 million facility through August 13, 2012. Letters of credit in the aggregate amount of approximately $14.0 million are treated as issued under this amended facility. We use the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility for general corporate  

50  

Table of Contents 

 purposes, which may include working capital, refinancing existing indebtedness, capital expenditures, share repurchases, acquisitions and strategic alliances. The interest rates under the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility are based on the Eurocurrency rate at the time of borrowing plus a margin, or the base rate from time to time. The base rate is the higher of (i) the corporate base rate announced from time to time by Bank of America, N.A. and (ii) the Federal Funds rate plus 50 basis points. We may allocate all or a portion of our indebtedness under the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility to interest based upon the Eurocurrency rate plus a margin, or the base rate. The Eurocurrency margin as of January 2, 2011 was 40 basis points. The weighted average Eurocurrency interest rate as of January 2, 2011 was 0.26%, resulting in a weighted average effective Eurocurrency rate, including the margin, of 0.66%. We had drawn down $274.0 million of borrowings in U.S. Dollars under the facility as of January 2, 2011, with interest based on the above described Eurocurrency rate. The agreement for the facility contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants and events of default customary for financings of this type, which are consistent with those financial covenants contained in our previous senior revolving credit agreement. The financial covenants in our amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility include debt-to-capital ratios and a contingent maximum total leverage ratio, applicable if our credit rating is down-graded below investment grade. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of January 2, 2011.  

6% Senior Unsecured Notes. On May 30, 2008, we issued and sold seven-year senior notes at a rate of 6% with a face value of $150.0 million and received $150.0 million in gross proceeds from the issuance. The debt, which matures in May 2015, is unsecured. Interest on the 6% senior notes is payable semi-annually on May 30th and November 30th. We may redeem some or all of our 6% senior notes at any time in an amount not less than 10% of the original aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, plus the applicable make-whole amount. The financial covenants in our 6% senior notes include debt-to-capital ratios which, if our credit rating is down-graded below investment grade, would be replaced by a contingent maximum total leverage ratio. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of January 2, 2011.  

We entered into forward interest rate contracts in October 2007, with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%, that were intended to hedge movements in interest rates prior to our expected debt issuance. In May 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 6% senior unsecured notes, and recognized $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive (loss) income. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we concluded that the remaining portion of the expected debt issuance, with a notional amount totaling $150.0 million, was no longer probable. As a result of the debt issuance no longer being probable, we discontinued and settled the forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million and recognized a loss of $17.5 million in interest and other (income) expense, net.  

As of January 2, 2011, the balance remaining in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the effective cash flow hedges was $5.3 million, net of taxes of $3.4 million. The derivative losses are being amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. We amortized $2.0 million into interest expense during each of the fiscal years 2010 and 2009, and $1.2 million during fiscal year 2008.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Receivables Securitization Facility. During fiscal year 2001, we established a wholly owned consolidated subsidiary to maintain a receivables purchase agreement with a third-party financial institution. Under this arrangement, we sold, on a revolving basis, certain of our accounts receivable balances to the consolidated subsidiary which simultaneously sold an undivided percentage ownership interest in designated pools of receivables to a third-party financial institution. As collections reduced the balance of sold accounts receivable, new receivables were sold. Our consolidated subsidiary retained the risk of credit loss on the receivables. Accordingly, the full amount of the allowance for doubtful accounts had been provided for on our balance sheets. The amount of receivables sold and outstanding with the third-party financial institution was not to exceed $65.0 million, reduced to $50.0 million in March 2009. Under the terms of this agreement, our consolidated subsidiary  

51  

Table of Contents 

 retained collection and administrative responsibilities for the balances. The agreement required the third-party financial institution to be paid interest during the period from the date the receivable was sold to its maturity date. The servicing fees received constituted adequate compensation for services performed. No servicing asset or liability was therefore recorded.  

In March 2009, our consolidated subsidiary entered into an agreement to extend the term of the accounts receivable securitization facility to December 30, 2009. On June 30, 2009, our consolidated subsidiary exercised the right to terminate the receivables purchase agreement with a third-party financial institution, releasing both parties of their rights, liabilities and obligations under this agreement.  

Dividends  

Our Board declared regular quarterly cash dividends of $0.07 per share in each quarter of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, resulting in an annual dividend rate of $0.28 per share. On January 24, 2011, we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 that is payable in May 2011. In the future, our Board may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources.  

Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at January 2, 2011 for continuing and discontinued operations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The credit facility borrowings carry variable interest rates; the amounts included in this table do not contemplate interest obligations.  

 (2) For the purposes of this table, the obligation has been calculated without interest obligations.  

 (3) The amount includes accrued interest, net of tax benefits, and penalties. We have excluded $44.0 million, including accrued interest, net of tax benefits, and penalties, from the amount related to our uncertain tax positions as we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of related future payments.  

Capital Expenditures  

During fiscal year 2011, we expect to invest an amount for capital expenditures similar to that in fiscal year 2010, primarily to introduce new products, to improve our operating processes, to shift the production capacity to lower cost locations, and to develop information technology. We expect to use our available cash and internally generated funds to fund these expenditures.  

52  

Table of Contents 

Other Potential Liquidity Considerations  

At January 2, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $420.1 million and an amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility with $362.0 million available for additional borrowing. Most of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies. Almost all of the amounts held outside of the U.S. are available for repatriation, subject to relevant tax consequences. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. With the exception of $250.0 million related to the sale of our IDS business, we expect accumulated non-U.S. cash balances will remain outside of the U.S. and that we will meet U.S. liquidity needs through future cash flows, use of U.S. cash balances, external borrowings, or some combination of these sources.  

On October 23, 2008, we announced that our Board authorized us to repurchase up to 10.0 million shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”). On August 31, 2010, we announced that our Board had authorized us to repurchase an additional 5.0 million shares of common stock under the Repurchase Program. The Repurchase Program will expire on October 22, 2012 unless terminated earlier by our Board, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2008, we repurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $18.0 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During fiscal year 2009, we repurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $14.2 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During fiscal year 2010, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $71.5 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. As of January 2, 2011, approximately 10.0 million shares of our common stock remained available for repurchase from the 15.0 million shares authorized by our Board under the Repurchase Program. From January 3, 2011 through February 24, 2011, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $80.6 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program.  

Our Board has authorized us to repurchase shares of common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans. During fiscal year 2008, we repurchased 37,521 shares of common stock. During fiscal year 2009, we repurchased 28,890 shares of common stock. During fiscal year 2010, we repurchased 57,551 shares of common stock for this purpose.  

The repurchased shares have been reflected as additional authorized but unissued shares, with the payments reflected in common stock and capital in excess of par value. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with corporate programs. If we continue to repurchase shares, the repurchase program will be funded using our existing financial resources, including cash and cash equivalents, and our existing amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility.  

In November 2010, we sold our IDS business for approximately $500.0 million, $482.0 million net of payments for acquired cash balances, subject to an adjustment for working capital as of the closing date. The divestiture of our IDS business is expected to reduce the complexity of our product offerings and organizational structure, and to provide capital to reinvest in other Human Health and Environmental Health end markets. The buyer acquired our IDS business through the purchase of all outstanding stock of certain of our subsidiaries located in Germany, Canada, China, Indonesia, the Philippines, the United Kingdom and the United States, as well as the purchase of related assets and the assumption of liabilities held by us and certain of our subsidiaries located in Singapore and Germany. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $315.3 million, inclusive of the net working capital adjustment, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 as a result of the sale of our IDS business. The gain was recognized as a gain on the disposition of discontinued operations.  

As a result of the sale of the IDS and Photoflash businesses, we concluded that the remaining operations within those foreign subsidiaries previously containing IDS and Photoflash operations did not require the same  

53  

Table of Contents 

 level of capital as previously required, and therefore we plan to repatriate $250.0 million of cash and have provided for the taxes on the related previously unremitted earnings. Taxes have not been provided for unremitted earnings that we continue to consider permanently reinvested, which is based on our future operational and capital requirements.The impact of this tax provision in fiscal year 2010 was an increase to our tax provision of $65.8 million in discontinued operations. We expect to utilize existing tax attributes to repatriate these earnings and expect the taxes to be paid to repatriate these earnings will be minimal.  

In November 2009, the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009 was enacted and allowed businesses with net operating losses for 2008 or 2009 to carry back those losses for up to five years. We had anticipated carrying back losses of up to $80.0 million at the end of fiscal 2009 and classified certain deferred taxes anticipated to be monetized with the filing of the 2009 tax return as a tax receivable. Subsequently, we decided not to implement all of the tax deferral strategies previously anticipated, and carried back losses of $43.6 million from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2005. As a result, the tax attributes that related to tax deferral strategies not implemented have reduced our deferred tax liability balances, with a corresponding reduction in income tax receivable. We received a federal income tax refund of $8.9 million in January 2011 and generated general business tax credit carryforwards of $6.4 million.  

In connection with the settlement of an insurance claim resulting from a fire that occurred at our facility in Boston, Massachusetts in March 2005, we accrued $9.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, representing our management’s estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters, which was damaged in the fire. We paid $2.5 million during fiscal year 2009, $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. We sold the building on April 27, 2010. Net proceeds from the sale were $11.0 million, and we recorded a pre-tax gain of $3.4 million in operating income.  

Distressed global financial markets could adversely impact general economic conditions by reducing liquidity and credit availability, creating increased volatility in security prices, widening credit spreads and decreasing valuations of certain investments. The widening of credit spreads may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses and may affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or hold. Increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit at rates we consider to be reasonable, could affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In difficult global financial markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our business activities.  

Our pension plans have not experienced any material impact on liquidity or counterparty exposure due to the volatility in the credit markets. As a result of significant losses experienced in global equity markets during fiscal year 2008, although our pension funds had modest gains for fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2010, we experienced increased pension costs in fiscal year 2010. We could potentially experience increased costs in additional future periods for all pension plans. We may be required to fund our pension plans with contributions of up to $11.0 million by the end of fiscal year 2011, and we could potentially have to make additional funding payments in future periods for all pension plans. During fiscal year 2010, we made a voluntary contribution of $30.0 million for the 2009 plan year to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States, to realize the benefit received from favorable tax provisions included in the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009, as described above. During fiscal year 2010, we also made contributions of $15.2 million for the 2009 plan year to our defined benefit pension plans outside the United States.  

Effects of Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements  

From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and are adopted by us as of the specified effective dates. Unless otherwise discussed below, we believe that the impact of recently issued and adopted pronouncements will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows or do not apply to our operations.  

54  

Table of Contents 

In October 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. This guidance establishes the accounting and reporting guidance for arrangements including multiple revenue-generating activities. This guidance provides amendments to the criteria for separating and measuring deliverables and allocating arrangement consideration to one or more units of accounting. The amendments in this guidance also establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable. Significantly enhanced disclosures are also required to provide information about a vendor’s multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements, including information about the nature and terms of significant deliverables, and a vendor’s performance within those arrangements. Once adopted, the amendments will also require a company to provide information about the significant judgments made and changes to those judgments and about the way the application of the relative selling-price method affects the timing or amount of revenue recognition. We will be required to adopt this authoritative guidance on multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. We are evaluating the requirements of this guidance and have not yet determined the impact of its adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.  

In October 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on certain revenue arrangements that include software elements. This guidance changes the accounting model for revenue arrangements that include both tangible products and software elements that are “essential to the functionality” of the product and excludes these products from current software revenue guidance. The new guidance will include factors to help companies determine what software elements are considered “essential to the functionality” of the product. Once adopted, the amendments will subject software-enabled products to other revenue guidance and disclosure requirements, such as guidance surrounding revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. We will be required to adopt this authoritative guidance on certain revenue arrangements that include software elements in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. We are evaluating the requirements of this guidance and have not yet determined the impact of its adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.  

In March 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on the milestone method of revenue recognition. Once adopted, this guidance will allow the milestone method as an acceptable revenue recognition methodology when an arrangement includes substantive milestones. This guidance provides a definition of a substantive milestone that should be applied regardless of whether the arrangement includes single or multiple deliverables or units of accounting. The scope of the applicability of this definition is limited to transactions involving milestones relating to research and development deliverables. This guidance also includes enhanced disclosure requirements about each arrangement, individual milestones and related contingent consideration, information about substantive milestones and factors considered in the determination of whether this methodology is appropriate. Early application and retrospective application are permitted. We will be required to adopt this authoritative guidance on the milestone method of revenue recognition in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. We expect the adoption of this guidance will not have a significant impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.  

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, restructuring, pensions and other postretirement benefits, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Revenue recognition. We record product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, we recognize product revenue upon delivery, and we delay recognition of installation revenue until the installation is complete. For sales that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, we recognize revenue only after the acceptance criteria have been met. We defer revenue from services and recognize it over the contractual period, or as we render services and the customer accepts them. When arrangements include multiple elements, we use objective evidence of fair value to allocate revenue to the elements and recognize revenue when the criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. Because the majority of our sales relate to specific manufactured products or units rather than long-term customized projects, we generally do not experience significant changes in original estimates. Further, we have not experienced any significant refunds or promotional allowances that require significant estimation.  

Warranty costs. We provide for estimated warranty costs for products at the time of their sale. Warranty liabilities are based on estimated future repair costs using historical labor and material incurred in the warranty period.  

Allowances for doubtful accounts. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We generally compute our allowance for doubtful accounts by (i) applying specific percentage reserves on accounts that are past due and deemed uncollectible; and (ii) specifically reserving for customers known to be in financial difficulty. Therefore, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate beyond our estimates, we may have to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. This would reduce our earnings.  

Inventory valuation. We initially value inventory at actual cost to purchase and/or manufacture. We periodically review these values to ascertain that market value of the inventory continues to exceed its recorded cost. Generally, reductions in value of inventory below cost are caused by our maintenance of stocks of products in excess of demand, or technological obsolescence of the inventory. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and, when necessary, record provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based on either our estimated forecast of product demand and production requirements, or historical trailing usage of the product. If our sales do not materialize as planned or at historic levels, we may have to increase our reserve for excess and obsolete inventory. This would reduce our earnings. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold, resulting in lower costs of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period.  

Business combinations. Business combinations are accounted for at fair value. Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred and recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses; previously held equity interests are valued at fair value upon the acquisition of a controlling interest; in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) is recorded at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible asset at the acquisition date; restructuring costs associated with a business combination are generally expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally affect income tax expense. All changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are included in current period earnings. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgment as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair value for assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration, are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, or require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets.  

56  

Table of Contents 

Value of long-lived assets, including intangibles. We carry a variety of long-lived assets on our consolidated balance sheets including property and equipment, investments, identifiable intangible assets, and goodwill. We periodically review the carrying value of all of these assets based, in part, upon current estimated market values and our projections of anticipated future cash flows. We undertake this review (i) on an annual basis for assets such as goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets and (ii) on a periodic basis for other long-lived assets when facts and circumstances suggest that cash flows related to those assets may be diminished. Any impairment charge that we record reduces our earnings. The goodwill impairment test consists of a two-step process. The first step is the comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if the carrying value exceeds the fair value. The second step measures the amount of an impairment loss, and is only performed if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. We perform the annual impairment assessment on the later of January 1 or the first day of each fiscal year. This same impairment test will be performed at other times during the course of the year should an event occur which suggests that the recoverability of goodwill should be reconsidered. Non-amortizing intangibles are also subject to an annual impairment test. The impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess is recognized. In addition, we currently evaluate the remaining useful life of our non-amortizing intangible assets at least annually to determine whether events or circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. If events or circumstances indicate that the useful lives of non-amortizing intangible assets are no longer indefinite, the assets will be tested for impairment. These intangible assets will then be amortized prospectively over their estimated remaining useful life and accounted for in the same manner as other intangible assets that are subject to amortization. Through fiscal year 2010, we assessed the annual impairment testing using the analytical sciences and laboratory services, genetic screening, bio-discovery and medical imaging reporting units. We completed the annual impairment test using a measurement date of January 4, 2010 and January 1, 2009, and concluded based on the first step of the process that there was no goodwill impairment. While we believe that our estimates of current value are reasonable, different assumptions regarding items such as future cash flows and the volatility inherent in markets which we serve could affect our evaluations and result in impairment charges against the carrying value of those assets.  

Employee compensation and benefits. Retirement and postretirement benefit plans are a significant cost of doing business, and represent obligations that will be ultimately settled far in the future, and therefore are subject to estimation. Retirement and postretirement benefit plan expenses are allocated to cost of sales, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses, in our consolidated statements of operations. We incurred expenses of $14.6 million in fiscal year 2010, $13.0 million in fiscal year 2009 and $8.3 million in fiscal year 2008 for our retirement and postretirement plans. We expect expenses of approximately $13.8 million in fiscal year 2011 for our retirement and postretirement plans. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employee’s approximate service period based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made. We are required to make assumptions regarding such variables as the expected long-term rate of return on assets and the discount rate applied, to determine service cost and interest cost, in order to arrive at pension income or expense for the year.  

As of January 2, 2011, we estimated the expected long-term rate of return on assets in our pension portfolios in the United States was 8.1% and was 6.7% for all plans outside the United States. We have analyzed the rates of return on assets used and determined that these rates are reasonable based on the plans’ historical performance relative to the overall markets in the countries where we invest the assets, as well as our current expectations for long-term rates of returns for our pension assets. Our management will continue to assess the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumptions for each plan based on relevant market conditions, and will make adjustments to the assumptions as appropriate. Discount rate assumptions have been, and continue to be, based on the prevailing market long-term interest rates at the measurement date. If any of our assumptions were to change, our pension plan expenses would also change. A one-quarter percent increase in the discount rate would decrease our net periodic benefit cost by $0.5 million for fiscal year 2011 in the United States and by $0.6 million for fiscal year 2011 for all plans outside the United States. A one percent decrease in the estimated return on plan assets would increase our pre-tax pension expense by $2.3 million for fiscal year 2011 in the United  

57  

Table of Contents 

 States and by $0.9 million for fiscal year 2011 for all plans outside the United States. We have reduced the volatility in our healthcare costs provided to our retirees by adopting a defined dollar plan feature in fiscal year 2001. Under the defined dollar plan feature, our total annual liability for healthcare costs to any one retiree is limited to a fixed dollar amount, regardless of the nature or cost of the healthcare needs of that retiree. Our maximum future liability, therefore, cannot be increased by future changes in the cost of healthcare.  

Restructuring activities. Our consolidated financial statements detail specific charges relating to restructuring activities as well as the actual spending that has occurred against the resulting accruals. Our pre-tax restructuring charges are estimates based on our preliminary assessments of (i) severance benefits to be granted to employees, based on known benefit formulas and identified job grades, (ii) costs to abandon certain facilities based on known lease costs of sub-rental income and (iii) asset impairments as discussed above under “Value of long-lived assets, including intangibles.” Because these accruals are estimates, they are subject to change as a result of deviations from initial restructuring plans or subsequent information that may come to our attention. For example, actual severance costs may be less than anticipated if employees voluntarily leave prior to the time at which they would be entitled to severance, or if anticipated legal hurdles in foreign jurisdictions prove to be less onerous than expected. In addition, unanticipated successes or difficulties in terminating leases and other contractual obligations may lead to changes in estimates. When such changes in estimates occur, they are reflected in our consolidated financial statements on our consolidated statement of operations line entitled “restructuring and lease charges (reversals), net.”  

Gains or losses on dispositions. When we record the disposition of an asset or discontinuance of an operation, we make an estimate relative to the amount we expect to realize on the sale or disposition. This estimate is based on a variety of factors, including current interest in the market, alternative markets for the assets, and other relevant factors. If anticipated proceeds are less than the current carrying amount of the asset or operation, we record a loss. If anticipated proceeds are greater than the current carrying amount of the asset or operation, we recognize a gain net of expected contingencies when the transaction has been consummated. Accordingly, we may realize amounts different than were first estimated. During the fiscal year ended January 2, 2011, we recorded $3.4 million in pre-tax gains from disposition of fixed assets. We recorded $317.9 million in pre-tax gains from the disposition of discontinued operations. Any such changes decrease or increase current earnings, and are recorded either against the “gains on disposition” or “discontinued operations” line items appearing in our consolidated statement of operations.  

Income taxes. Our business operations are global in nature, and we are subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Tax laws and tax rates vary substantially in these jurisdictions, and are subject to change given the political and economic climate in those countries. We report and pay income tax based on operational results and applicable law. Our tax provision contemplates tax rates currently in effect to determine both our current and deferred tax provisions. Any significant fluctuation in rates or changes in tax laws could cause our estimates of taxes we anticipate either paying or recovering in the future to change. Such changes could lead to either increases or decreases in our effective tax rate.  

Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related tax assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of our business, there are operational decisions, transactions, facts and circumstances, and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is not certain. Furthermore, our tax positions are periodically subject to challenge by taxing authorities throughout the world. Every quarter we review our tax positions in each significant taxing jurisdiction in the process of evaluating our unrecognized tax benefits. Adjustments are made to our unrecognized tax benefits when: (i) facts and circumstances regarding a tax position change, causing a change in our judgment regarding that tax position; (ii) a tax position is effectively settled with a tax authority; and/or (iii) the statute of limitations expires regarding a tax position. Any significant impact as a result of changes in underlying facts, law, tax rates, tax audit, or review could lead to adjustments to our income tax expense, our effective tax rate, or our cash flow.  

Additionally, we have established valuation allowances against a variety of deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, foreign tax credits, other income tax credits and certain pension accruals. Valuation  

58  

Table of Contents 

 allowances take into consideration our ability to use these deferred tax assets and reduce the value of such items to the amount that is deemed more likely than not to be recoverable. Improvements or other changes in our operations, domestically and internationally, could increase our ability to utilize these tax attributes in the future. The release of valuation allowances in periods when these tax attributes become realizable would reduce our effective tax rate.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk