Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. See Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Note that amounts within this Item shown in millions may not foot due to rounding.

The following discussion also includes gross sales and currency exchange rate impact, non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Regulation G"), to supplement the financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. The currency exchange rate impact reflects the portion (expressed as a percentage) of changes in Mattel's reported results that are attributable to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Mattel uses these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze its continuing operations and to monitor, assess, and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. These measures are not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for GAAP financial measures. Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion, including a reconciliation of gross sales, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net sales, its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.

Overview

Mattel's vision is to "inspire the wonder of childhood as the global leader in learning and development through play." In order to deliver on this vision, Mattel is focused on the following five-pillar strategy:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Accelerate emerging markets growth with digital-first solutions;

•Focus and strengthen Mattel's innovation pipeline;

•Reshape Mattel's operations to enable this strategy - leaner, faster, and smarter - via commercial realignment, supply chain transformation, and IT transformation; and

•Reignite Mattel's culture and team.

2017 Overview

Mattel’s 2017 financial highlights include the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Results of Operations

2017 Compared to 2016 

Consolidated Results

Net sales for 2017 were $4.88 billion, an 11% decrease, as compared to $5.46 billion in 2016. Net loss for 2017 was $1.05 billion, or a loss of $3.07 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $318.0 million, or earnings of $0.92 per diluted share, in 2016. The net loss for 2017 was impacted by lower gross profit, a higher advertising rate, higher other selling and administrative expenses, higher interest expense, a $59.0 million non-operating expense related to the discontinuation of Mattel's Venezuelan subsidiary, and a net tax expense of $454.4 million primarily related to the establishment of a valuation allowance on U.S. deferred tax assets that will likely not be realized and an estimate of the impact of U.S. Tax Reform.

26

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated results for 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Net sales for 2017 were $4.88 billion, an 11% decrease, as compared to $5.46 billion in 2016.

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated gross sales by brand results for 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

27

Gross sales were $5.51 billion in 2017, a decrease of $559.6 million, or 9%, as compared to $6.07 billion in 2016, with a favorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. The decrease in gross sales was due to lower sales of Other Girls, Construction and Arts & Crafts, American Girl, and Fisher-Price Friends products, partially offset by higher sales of Entertainment products. The decrease in gross sales was partially a result of the reversal of approximately $47 million of gross sales related to Toys "R" Us filing for bankruptcy. In addition, Mattel began to reduce shipping to Toys "R" Us in early September, which resulted in a loss of revenue in the second half of 2017. Of the 36% decrease in Other Girls gross sales, 28% was due to lower sales of Monster High products, 12% was due to lower sales of Ever After High products, and 11% was due to lower sales of DC Super Hero Girls products, partially offset by initial sales of Enchantimals products of 11%. Of the 29% decrease in Construction and Arts & Crafts gross sales, 26% was due to lower sales of MEGA BLOKS products, primarily driven by licensed properties and MEGA BLOKS Preschool products. The 21% decrease in American Girl gross sales was due to lower sales across channels. Of the 14% decrease in Fisher-Price Friends gross sales, 13% was due to lower sales of Thomas & Friends products. Of the 12% increase in Entertainment gross sales, 30% was due to higher sales of CARS products, partially offset by lower sales of Minecraft products of 5%, lower sales of DC Comics products of 4%, and lower sales of Dinotrux and WWE products of 2% each.

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 62.7% in 2017, as compared to 53.2% in 2016. Cost of sales increased by $158.9 million, or 5%, to $3.06 billion in 2017 from $2.90 billion in 2016, as compared to a 11% decrease in net sales. Within cost of sales, product and other costs increased by $92.4 million, or 4%, to $2.44 billion in 2017 from $2.35 billion in 2016, primarily as a result of higher obsolescence expense; freight and logistics expenses increased by $50.9 million, or 16%, to $373.6 million in 2017 from $322.7 million in 2016; and royalty expenses increased $15.6 million, or 7%, to $244.5 million in 2017 from $228.9 million in 2016.

Gross Margin

Gross margin decreased to 37.3% in 2017 from 46.8% in 2016. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to higher obsolescence expense, unfavorable product mix, higher freight and logistics expenses, asset impairments, and an unfavorable impact from Toys "R" Us filing for bankruptcy in the third quarter of 2017. As a result of the Toys "R" Us net sales reversal, gross margin includes the cost of sales for the inventory sold, but excludes the corresponding net sales.

Advertising and Promotion Expenses

Advertising and promotion expenses primarily consist of: (i) media costs, which primarily include the media, planning, and buying fees for television, print, and online advertisements, (ii) non-media costs, which primarily include commercial and website production, merchandising, and promotional costs, (iii) retail advertising costs, which primarily include consumer direct catalogs, newspaper inserts, fliers, and mailers, and (iv) generic advertising costs, which primarily include trade show costs. Advertising and promotion expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 13.2% in 2017 from 11.6% in 2016, primarily as a result of lower net sales and higher non-media costs.

Other Selling and Administrative Expenses

Other selling and administrative expenses were $1.52 billion, or 31.2% of net sales, in 2017, as compared to $1.40 billion, or 25.7% of net sales, in 2016. The increase in other selling and administrative expenses was primarily due to asset impairments of approximately $36 million, higher severance and restructuring expenses of approximately $25 million, higher employee-related costs of approximately $19 million, higher incentive and equity compensation of approximately $16 million, and costs associated with the new American Girl flagship store in New York City of approximately $14 million.

Other Non-Operating Expense

Other non-operating expense was $64.7 million in 2017, as compared to $23.5 million in 2016. In the fourth quarter of 2017, Mattel initiated actions to discontinue operations in Venezuela, which resulted in a $59.0 million loss in other non-operating expense related to the associated cumulative translation adjustments. In 2016, Mattel recognized approximately $26 million of foreign currency exchange loss related to a change in the remeasurement rate used by Mattel's Venezuelan subsidiary. See Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Venezuelan Operations" for more information.

28

Provision for Income Taxes

Mattel’s provision for income taxes was $548.8 million in 2017, compared to $91.7 million in 2016. Mattel's effective tax rate on loss before income taxes was (108.7)% in 2017, as compared to an effective tax rate on income before income taxes of 22.4% in 2016. The 2017 income tax provision included net tax expense of $454.4 million, primarily related to the establishment of a valuation allowance in the third quarter of 2017 on U.S. deferred tax assets that will likely not be realized and an estimate of the impact of U.S. Tax Reform in the fourth quarter of 2017. The 2017 net tax expense included a provisional income tax benefit of $105.3 million related to the remeasurement of the U.S. net deferred tax liabilities from 35% to 21% tax rate and revised deferred tax netting from the third quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2017. Mattel has not yet determined a reasonable estimate of the impact of many aspects of tax reform. For additional information on the U.S. Tax Reform, see Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Income Taxes". The 2016 income tax provision included net tax benefits of $16.8 million primarily related to reassessments of prior years' tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, and the adoption of ASU 2016-09.

North America Segment

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the North America segment for 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the North America segment were $2.54 billion in 2017, a decrease of $499.5 million or 16%, as compared to $3.04 billion in 2016, with a favorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. The decrease in the North America segment gross sales was primarily due to lower sales of Other Girls, Construction and Arts & Crafts, Fisher-Price Friends, Core Fisher-Price, and Wheels products. As a result of Toys "R" Us filing for bankruptcy, Mattel reversed approximately $47 million of gross sales in the third quarter of 2017. In addition, Mattel began to reduce shipping to Toys "R" Us in early September, which resulted in a loss of revenue in the second half of 2017. Of the 54% decrease in Other Girls gross sales, 36% was due to lower sales of Monster High products and 17% was due to lower sales of DC Super Hero Girls products. Of the 34% decrease in Construction and Arts & Crafts gross sales, 31% was due to lower sales of MEGA BLOKS products, primarily driven by licensed properties and MEGA BLOKS Preschool products. Of the 22% decrease in Fisher-Price Friends gross sales, 16% was due to lower sales of Thomas & Friends products and 5% was due to lower sales of Blaze and The Monster Machines products. Of the 14% decrease in Core Fisher-Price gross sales, 7% was due to lower sales of infant products and 4% was due to lower sales of Imaginext products. Of the 14% decrease in Wheels gross sales, 9% was due to lower sales of Hot Wheels products and 4% was due to lower sales of Matchbox products.

29

Cost of sales decreased 2% in 2017, as compared to a 16% decrease in net sales, primarily due to lower product and other costs, partially offset by higher freight and logistics expenses. Gross margins in 2017 decreased due to higher freight and logistics expenses, an unfavorable impact from Toys "R" Us filing for bankruptcy, and higher obsolescence expense. As a result of the Toys "R" Us net sales reversal, gross margin includes the cost of sales for the inventory sold, but excludes the corresponding net sales.

North America segment income decreased by 83% to $98.5 million in 2017, as compared to $564.4 million in 2016, primarily due to lower gross profit.

International Segment

The following table provides a summary of percentage changes in net sales within the International segment in 2017 versus 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table provides a summary of percentage changes in gross sales within the International segment in 2017 versus 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the International segment for 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the International segment were $2.50 billion in 2017, an increase of $55.9 million or 2%, as compared to $2.45 billion in 2016, with a favorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. The increase in the International segment gross sales was primarily due to higher sales of Entertainment products, partially offset by lower sales of Other Girls and Construction and Arts & Crafts products. Of the 29% increase in Entertainment gross sales, 42% was due to higher sales of CARS products, partially offset by lower sales of DC Comics products of 3% and lower sales of Minecraft, Max Steel, and WWE products of 2% each. Of the 19% decrease in Other Girls gross sales, 22% was due to lower sales of Monster High products and 11% was due to lower sales of Ever After High products, partially offset by initial sales of Enchantimals products of 15%. The 18% decrease in Construction and Arts & Crafts gross sales was due to lower sales of MEGA BLOKS products, primarily driven by licensed properties and MEGA BLOKS Preschool products.

Cost of sales increased 9% in 2017, as compared to flat net sales, primarily due to higher product and other costs and higher royalty expenses. Gross margins in 2017 decreased as a result of unfavorable product mix and higher royalty expense.

International segment loss was $5.9 million in 2017, as compared to segment income of $291.2 million in 2016, primarily due to lower gross profit and higher other selling and administrative expenses.

31

American Girl Segment

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the American Girl segment for 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the American Girl segment were $473.9 million in 2017, a decrease of $116.0 million or 20%, as compared to $589.9 million in 2016. The decrease in American Girl segment gross sales was primarily due to lower sales of American Girl brands products as a result of lower sales across channels. Cost of sales increased 14% in 2017, as compared to a 21% decrease in net sales, primarily due to higher inventory obsolescence expense. Gross margins in 2017 decreased as a result of higher obsolescence expense, unfavorable product mix, lower licensing income, and higher freight and logistics expenses.

American Girl segment loss was $73.0 million in 2017, as compared to segment income of $106.4 million in 2016, primarily due to lower gross profit and higher other selling and administrative expenses.

2016 Compared to 2015 

Consolidated Results

Net sales for 2016 were $5.46 billion, a 4% decrease, as compared to $5.70 billion in 2015, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. Net income for 2016 was $318.0 million, or $0.92 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $369.4 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, in 2015. Net income for 2016 was negatively impacted by lower gross profit, partially offset by lower other selling and administrative expenses and lower advertising and promotion expenses.

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated results for 2016 and 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32

Sales

Net sales for 2016 were $5.46 billion, a 4% decrease, as compared to $5.70 billion in 2015, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points.

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated gross sales by brand for 2016 and 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales were $6.07 billion in 2016, a decrease of $209.9 million or 3%, as compared to $6.28 billion in 2015, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points. The decrease in gross sales was due to lower sales of Other Girls products, partially offset by higher sales of Entertainment products. Of the 52% decrease in Other Girls gross sales, 47% was due to lower sales of Disney Princess products. Of the 13% increase in Entertainment gross sales, 12% was due to higher sales of DC Comics products. 

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 53.2% in 2016, as compared to 50.8% in 2015. Cost of sales in 2016 was flat with 2015 at $2.90 billion, as compared to a 4% decrease in net sales. Within cost of sales, product and other costs increased by $52.4 million, or 2%, to $2.35 billion in 2016 from $2.30 billion in 2015; royalty expenses decreased $35.7 million, or 13%, to $228.9 million in 2016 from $264.6 million in 2015; and freight and logistics expenses decreased by $10.7 million, or 3%, to $322.7 million in 2016 from $333.4 million in 2015.

Gross Margin

Gross margin decreased to 46.8% in 2016 from 49.2% in 2015. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange, higher sales adjustments, and higher input costs, partially offset by strategic pricing and Funding Our Future savings.

33

Advertising and Promotion Expenses

Advertising and promotion expenses primarily consist of: (i) media costs, which primarily include the media, planning, and buying fees for television, print, and online advertisements, (ii) non-media costs, which primarily include commercial and website production, merchandising, and promotional costs, (iii) retail advertising costs, which primarily include consumer direct catalogs, newspaper inserts, fliers, and mailers and (iv) generic advertising costs, which primarily include trade show costs. Advertising and promotion expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 11.6% in 2016 from 12.6% in 2015, primarily as a result of lower media and non-media costs.

Other Selling and Administrative Expenses

Other selling and administrative expenses were $1.40 billion, or 25.7% of net sales, in 2016, as compared to $1.55 billion, or 27.1% of net sales, in 2015. The decrease in other selling and administrative expenses was primarily due to Funding Our Future net savings of approximately $60 million, lower incentive and equity compensation of approximately $36 million, and lower severance and restructuring charges of approximately $32 million.

Other Non-Operating Expense/Income, Net

Other non-operating expense was $23.5 million in 2016, as compared to other non-operating income of $1.1 million in 2015. The increase in other non-operating expense was primarily due to the change in the remeasurement rate used by Mattel's Venezuelan subsidiary, which resulted in an unrealized foreign currency exchange loss of approximately $26 million, in the first quarter of 2016.

Provision for Income Taxes

Mattel’s provision for income taxes was $91.7 million in 2016, compared to $94.5 million in 2015. Mattel's effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2016 was 22.4%, as compared to 20.4% in 2015. The 2016 income tax provision included net tax benefits of $16.8 million primarily related to reassessments of prior years' tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, and the adoption of a new accounting pronouncement. The 2015 income tax provision included net tax benefits of $19.1 million primarily related to reassessments of prior years' tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.

34

North America Segment

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the North America segment for 2016 and 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the North America segment were $3.04 billion in 2016, a decrease of $47.7 million, or 2%, as compared to $3.08 billion in 2015, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. The decrease in the North America segment gross sales was primarily due to lower sales of Other Girls products, partially offset by higher sales of Entertainment and Barbie products. Of the 51% decrease in Other Girls gross sales, 47% was due to lower sales of Disney Princess products. Of the 19% increase in Entertainment gross sales, 12% was due to higher sales of DC Comics products and 5% was due to initial sales of Fuhu tablets. The 13% increase in Barbie gross sales was due to sales of the Fashionistas and I Can Be product lines, and the new younger girl product line, Barbie Dreamtopia, as well as licensing revenue recorded during the second quarter. Cost of sales decreased 2% in 2016, as compared to a 2% decrease in net sales, primarily due to lower product and other costs and lower royalty expenses. Gross margins in 2016 were flat with 2015.

North America segment income increased by 5% to $564.4 million in 2016, as compared to $538.2 million in 2015, primarily due to lower advertising and promotion expenses, partially offset by lower gross profit.

International Segment

The following table provides a summary of percentage changes in net sales within the International segment in 2016 versus 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35

The following table provides a summary of percentage changes in gross sales within the International segment in 2016 versus 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the International segment for 2016 and 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the International segment were $2.45 billion in 2016, a decrease of $155.9 million, or 6%, as compared to $2.60 billion in 2015, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 7 percentage points. The decrease in the International segment gross sales was primarily due to lower sales of Other Girls products, partially offset by higher sales of Construction and Arts & Crafts Brands products. Of the 53% decrease in Other Girls gross sales, 47% was due to lower sales of Disney Princess products. Of the 17% increase in Construction and Arts & Crafts gross sales, 14% was due to initial sales of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles MEGA BLOKS products. Cost of sales increased 4% in 2016, as compared to an 8% decrease in net sales, primarily due to higher product and other costs, partially offset by lower royalty expenses. Gross margins in 2016 decreased as a result of unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, higher input costs, and higher sales adjustments, partially offset by strategic pricing and Funding Our Future savings.

International segment income decreased by 9% to $291.2 million in 2016, as compared to $321.1 million in 2015, primarily due to lower gross profit, partially offset by lower advertising and promotion expenses and lower other selling and administrative expenses.

36

American Girl Segment

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the American Girl segment for 2016 and 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the American Girl segment were $589.9 million in 2016, a decrease of $6.3 million, or 1%, as compared to $596.2 million in 2015. Cost of sales decreased 3% in 2016, as compared to a 1% decrease in net sales, primarily due to lower product and other costs and lower freight and logistics costs. Gross margins in 2016 increased as a result of higher licensing income and Funding Our Future savings.

American Girl segment income increased by 52% to $106.4 million in 2016, as compared to $69.9 million in 2015, primarily due to the new franchise licensing agreement to expand the brand into the Middle East, lower advertising and promotion expenses, and lower other selling and administrative expenses.

Cost Savings Programs

Funding Our Future

During 2015, Mattel initiated Funding Our Future, which was designed to generate cost savings through various initiatives, including structural and process improvements and supply chain optimization. Funding our Future targeted cumulative gross cost savings of approximately $250 million to $300 million by the end of 2016. Mattel achieved cumulative gross cost savings of approximately $295 million (or approximately $215 million in net cost savings), which was at the high end of its Funding Our Future goal. Of the cumulative gross cost savings realized, approximately $144 million was reflected within gross profit, approximately $133 million within other selling and administrative expenses, and approximately $18 million within advertising and promotion expenses. 

Structural Simplification Cost Savings Program

During the third quarter of 2017, Mattel initiated its Structural Simplification Cost Savings program, with plans to target at least $650 million in net cost savings by 2020, with one third of the savings expected to be achieved in 2018 and the remaining two thirds in 2019. In December 2017, Mattel announced that it had identified additional opportunities for cost savings that increased the total original cost savings expectation for 2018 from one-third to 40% of the total savings. Of the total net costs savings to be achieved by 2020, Mattel estimates 50% will come from cost of sales, 45% will come from other selling and administrative expenses, and 5% will come from advertising and promotion expenses.

The major initiatives of the Structural Simplification Cost Savings program include:

•Reducing manufacturing complexity, including SKU reduction, and implementing process improvement initiatives at owned and co-manufacturing facilities;

•Streamlining the organizational structure and reducing headcount expense to better align with the revenue base; and

•Optimizing advertising spend.

37

During 2017, in connection with the Structural Simplification Cost Savings program, Mattel recorded severance and other termination-related charges of $45.1 million within other selling and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. Mattel expects to incur total charges of approximately $160 million during 2018 and 2019 related to the Structural Simplification Cost Savings program.

Income Taxes

Mattel’s effective tax rate on loss before income taxes was (108.7)% in 2017, as compared to an effective tax rate on income before income taxes of 22.4% and 20.4% in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The income tax provision in 2017 included net tax expense of $454.4 million, as compared to net tax benefits of $16.8 million and $19.1 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The 2017 net tax expense primarily related to the establishment of a valuation allowance in the third quarter of 2017 on U.S. deferred tax assets that will likely not be realized and a provisional estimate of the impact of U.S. Tax Reform in the fourth quarter of 2017. The 2016 net tax benefits primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, and the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2015-17. The 2015 net tax benefits primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Mattel’s primary sources of liquidity are its cash and equivalents balances, access to short-term borrowing facilities, including its $1.60 billion senior secured revolving credit facilities ("the new senior secured revolving credit facilities"), and issuances of long-term debt securities. Cash flows from operating activities could be negatively impacted by decreased demand for Mattel’s products, which could result from factors such as adverse economic conditions and changes in public and consumer preferences, or by increased costs associated with manufacturing and distribution of products or shortages in raw materials or component parts. Additionally, Mattel’s ability to issue long-term debt and obtain seasonal financing could be adversely affected by factors such as global economic crises and tight credit environments, an inability to meet its debt covenant requirements and its new senior secured revolving credit facility covenants, or a deterioration of Mattel’s credit ratings. Mattel’s ability to conduct its operations could be negatively impacted should these or other adverse conditions affect its primary sources of liquidity.

Of Mattel’s $1.08 billion in cash and equivalents as of December 31, 2017, approximately $283 million is held by foreign subsidiaries. Mattel has several liquidity options to fund its operations and obligations; such obligations include investing and financing activities such as debt service, dividends, and share repurchases. Positive cash flows generated annually by its worldwide operations, the new senior secured revolving credit facilities, alternative forms of financing, and access to both public and private debt are available to fund domestic operations and obligations. 

U.S. Tax Reform, enacted on December 22, 2017, will provide Mattel with greater access to earnings of its foreign subsidiaries. U.S. Tax Reform does impose a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of the earnings of Mattel’s foreign subsidiaries. Mattel has significant deferred tax assets which can be used to reduce the one-time repatriation tax and therefore, does not expect the one time repatriation tax to be material to either its cash flows or liquidity. 

In October 2017, Mattel's Board of Directors determined to suspend Mattel's quarterly dividend beginning in the fourth quarter of 2017 in order to increase financial flexibility, strengthen the balance sheet, and facilitate strategic investments. Mattel paid dividends of $0.38 per share to holders of its common stock in the first and second quarter of 2017 and $0.15 per share in the third quarter of 2017. 

Current Market Conditions

Mattel is exposed to financial market risk resulting from changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. Mattel believes that it has ample liquidity to fund its business needs, including beginning of year cash and equivalents, cash flows from operations, and access to its new senior secured revolving credit facilities, which it uses for seasonal working capital requirements. 

Subject to market conditions, Mattel intends to utilize its new senior secured revolving credit facilities or alternative forms of financing to meet its short-term liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2017, there were no amounts outstanding under the new senior secured revolving credit facilities. Market conditions could affect certain terms of other debt instruments that Mattel enters into from time to time.

38

Mattel monitors the third-party depository institutions that hold Mattel's cash and equivalents. Mattel’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal, and secondarily on maximizing the yield on those funds. Mattel diversifies its cash and equivalents among counterparties and securities to minimize risks.

Mattel is subject to credit risks relating to the ability of its counterparties in hedging transactions to meet their contractual payment obligations. The risks related to creditworthiness and nonperformance have been considered in the fair value measurements of Mattel’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Mattel closely monitors its counterparties and takes action, as necessary, to manage its counterparty credit risk.

Mattel expects that some of its customers and vendors may experience difficulty in obtaining the liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials. Mattel monitors its customers’ financial condition and their liquidity in order to mitigate Mattel’s accounts receivable collectibility risks, and customer terms and credit limits are adjusted, if necessary. Additionally, Mattel uses a variety of financial arrangements to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a credit risk, including requiring letters of credit, factoring, purchasing various forms of credit insurance with unrelated third parties, or requiring cash in advance of shipment. As a result of Toys "R" Us filing for bankruptcy in September 2017, Mattel reversed gross sales and accounts receivable of approximately $47 million, and reversed net sales of approximately $43 million in the third quarter of 2017.

Mattel sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for its employees. Actual returns below the expected rate of return, along with changes in interest rates that affect the measurement of the liability, would impact the amount and timing of Mattel’s future contributions to these plans.

Operating Activities

Cash flows used for operating activities were $27.6 million during 2017, as compared to net cash flows from operating activities of $594.5 million during 2016 and $734.6 million during 2015. The change from 2016 to 2017 was due to the net loss for the year, excluding the net impact of the establishment of a valuation allowance on U.S. deferred tax assets that will likely not be realized and an estimate of the impact of U.S. Tax Reform, and other non-cash charges. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities in 2016 from 2015 was primarily due to higher working capital usage and lower net income. 

Investing Activities

Cash flows used for investing activities were $235.7 million during 2017, as compared to $311.9 million during 2016 and $282.5 million during 2015. The decrease in cash flows used for investing activities in 2017 from 2016 was primarily due to higher proceeds from foreign currency forward exchange contracts and 2016 payments related to the acquisitions of Fuhu assets and Sproutling, Inc., partially offset by higher capital spending. The increase in cash flows used for investing activities in 2016 from 2015 was primarily due to the acquisitions of Fuhu assets and Sproutling, Inc. in 2016.

Financing Activities

Cash flows provided by financing activities were $458.5 million during 2017, as compared to cash flows used for financing activities of $281.5 million during 2016 and $500.2 million during 2015. The increase in cash flows provided by financing activities in 2017 from 2016 was primarily due to the $1.00 billion issuance of senior notes in December 2017, partially offset by higher net repayments of short-term borrowings. The decrease in cash flows used for financing activities in 2016 from 2015 was primarily due to the $350.0 million issuance of senior notes in the third quarter of 2016 and higher short-term borrowings, partially offset by the $300.0 million repayment of senior notes which matured in the fourth quarter of 2016.

During 2017, 2016, and 2015, Mattel did not repurchase any shares of its common stock. Mattel's share repurchase program was first announced on July 21, 2003. On July 17, 2013, the Board of Directors authorized Mattel to increase its share repurchase program by $500.0 million. At December 31, 2017, share repurchase authorizations of $203.0 million had not been executed. Repurchases under the program will take place from time to time, depending on market conditions. Mattel's share repurchase program has no expiration date. 

During 2017, 2016, and 2015, Mattel paid total dividends per share of $0.91, $1.52, and $1.52, respectively, to holders of its common stock. The Board of Directors declared the dividends, if any, on a quarterly basis, and Mattel paid the dividends during the quarters in which the dividends were declared, if applicable. The payment of dividends on common stock is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and is subject to customary limitations. Dividend payments were $312.0 million, $518.5 million, and $515.1 million in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. 

39

Seasonal Financing

See Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt."

Credit Rating

In December 2017, Moody's changed Mattel's long-term credit rating to Ba2, changed its short-term credit rating to NP, and changed its outlook to stable. Standard & Poor's changed Mattel's long-term credit rating to BB-. Fitch changed Mattel's long-term credit rating to BB and changed its short-term credit rating to B. In July 2017, Standard & Poor's changed Mattel’s long-term credit rating to BBB- and changed its short-term credit rating to A-3. Fitch changed Mattel’s long-term credit rating to BBB. In January 2017, Moody's placed Mattel’s Senior Unsecured Debt rating of Baa1 on negative watch and Standard & Poor's changed Mattel's outlook from stable to negative. 

Financial Position

Mattel’s cash and equivalents increased $209.7 million to $1.08 billion at December 31, 2017, as compared to $869.5 million at December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily driven by proceeds from the $1.00 billion issuance of senior notes in December 2017, partially offset by dividend payments, capital spending, and net repayments of short-term borrowings.

Accounts receivable increased $13.4 million to $1.13 billion at December 31, 2017, as compared to $1.12 billion at December 31, 2016. Inventory decreased $13.1 million to $600.7 million at December 31, 2017, as compared to $613.8 million at December 31, 2016. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily a result of higher sales in markets with longer payment terms. The decrease in inventory was primarily due to an increase in the obsolescence reserve due to a decline in sales and the discontinuation of certain product lines, partially offset by higher excess inventory.

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities increased $70.6 million to $1.36 billion at December 31, 2017, as compared to $1.29 billion at December 31, 2016. The increase is primarily due to continued efforts to manage vendor disbursements.

As of December 31, 2017, Mattel had no short-term borrowings outstanding, as compared to $192.2 million at December 31, 2016. 

A summary of Mattel’s capitalization is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total debt increased by approximately $797 million from December 31, 2016 to $3.12 billion at December 31, 2017, primarily due to issuance of $1.00 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior unsecured notes due December 31, 2025 ("2017 Senior Notes").

Stockholders’ equity decreased $1.15 billion from December 31, 2016 to $1.26 billion at December 31, 2017, primarily due to the net loss for the year and dividend payments, partially offset by currency translation adjustments.

40

Mattel’s debt-to-total capital ratio, including short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt, increased from 49.1% at December 31, 2016 to 71.3% at December 31, 2017 as a result of higher long-term borrowings and lower stockholders’ equity.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Mattel has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on its financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.

Commitments

In the normal course of business, Mattel enters into debt agreements and contractual arrangements to obtain and protect Mattel’s right to create and market certain products and for future purchases of goods and services to ensure availability and timely delivery. These arrangements include commitments for future inventory and service purchases and royalty payments pursuant to licensing agreements. Certain of these commitments routinely contain provisions for guarantees or minimum expenditures during the terms of the contracts. Mattel also has defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans, which require future cash contributions and benefit payments. Additionally, Mattel routinely enters into noncancelable lease agreements for premises and equipment used, which contain minimum rental payments.

The following table summarizes Mattel’s contractual commitments and obligations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Represents total obligation, including imputed interest of $0.1 million.

Liabilities for uncertain tax positions for which a cash tax payment is not expected to be made in the next twelve months are classified as other noncurrent liabilities. Due to the uncertainty about the periods in which examinations will be completed and limited information related to current audits, Mattel is not able to make reasonably reliable estimates of the periods in which cash settlements will occur with taxing authorities for the noncurrent liabilities.

Subsequent Event

See Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Subsequent Event."

Litigation

The content of Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation" is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 7.

Effects of Inflation

Inflation rates in the U.S. and in major foreign countries where Mattel does business have not had a significant impact on its results of operations or financial position during 2017, 2016, or 2015. Mattel receives some protection from the impact of inflation from high turnover of inventories and its ability, under certain circumstances and at certain times, to pass on higher prices to its customers.

41

Employee Savings Plan

Mattel sponsors a 401(k) savings plan, the Mattel, Inc. Personal Investment Plan (the "Plan"), for its domestic employees. Contributions to the Plan include voluntary contributions by eligible employees and employer automatic and matching contributions by Mattel. The Plan allows employees to allocate both their voluntary contributions and their employer automatic and matching contributions to a variety of investment funds, including a fund that is invested in Mattel common stock (the "Mattel Stock Fund"). Employees are not required to allocate any of their Plan account balance to the Mattel Stock Fund, allowing employees to limit or eliminate their exposure to market changes in Mattel’s stock price. Furthermore, the Plan limits the percentage of the employee’s total account balance that may be allocated to the Mattel Stock Fund to 25%. Employees may generally reallocate their account balances on a daily basis. However, pursuant to Mattel’s insider trading policy, employees classified as insiders and restricted personnel under Mattel’s insider trading policy are limited to certain periods in which they may make allocations into or out of the Mattel Stock Fund.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Mattel makes certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The accounting policies and estimates described below are those Mattel considers most critical in preparing its consolidated financial statements. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosures included below. These accounting policies and estimates include significant judgments made by management using information available at the time the estimates are made. As described below, however, these estimates could change materially if different information or assumptions were used instead.

For a summary of Mattel’s significant accounting policies, estimates, and methods used in the preparation of Mattel’s consolidated financial statements, see Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies." In most instances, Mattel must use an accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP").

Accounts Receivable—Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The allowance for doubtful accounts represents adjustments to customer trade accounts receivable for amounts deemed partially or entirely uncollectible. Management believes the accounting estimate related to the allowance for doubtful accounts is a "critical accounting estimate" because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimate could materially affect key financial measures, including other selling and administrative expenses, net income, and accounts receivable. In addition, the allowance requires a high degree of judgment since it involves estimation of the impact of both current and future economic factors in relation to its customers’ ability to pay amounts owed to Mattel.

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the North America segment are sold directly to retailers, including discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets and, to a limited extent, wholesalers, and directly to consumers. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence.

In recent years, the mass-market retail channel has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems. Mattel’s sales to customers are typically made on credit without collateral and are highly concentrated in the third and fourth quarters due to the seasonal nature of toy sales, which results in a substantial portion of trade receivables being collected during the latter half of the year and the first quarter of the following year. There is a risk that customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond the control of Mattel. This could increase Mattel’s exposure to losses from bad debts.

A small number of customers account for a large share of Mattel’s net sales and accounts receivable. In 2017, Mattel’s three largest customers, Wal-Mart, Toys "R" Us, and Target, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 37% of net sales, and its ten largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 47% of net sales. As of December 31, 2017, Mattel’s three largest customers accounted for approximately 31% of net accounts receivable, and its ten largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of net accounts receivable. The concentration of Mattel’s business with a relatively small number of customers may expose Mattel to a material adverse effect if one or more of Mattel’s large customers were to experience financial difficulty. Toys "R" Us filed for bankruptcy in September 2017 and, as a result, Mattel reversed gross sales and accounts receivable of approximately $47 million, and reversed net sales of approximately $43 million in the third quarter of 2017. As of February 23, 2018, Mattel's accounts receivable due from Toys "R" Us are not past due. Outstanding 

42

accounts receivable as of February 23, 2018 due from Toys "R" Us in the North American region represent approximately 5% of total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.

Mattel has procedures to mitigate its risk of exposure to losses from bad debts. Revenue is recognized upon shipment or upon receipt of products by the customer, depending on the terms, provided that: there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance; persuasive evidence of an agreement exists documenting the specific terms of the transaction; the sales price is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured. Value added taxes are recorded on a net basis and are excluded from revenue. Credit limits and payment terms are established based on the underlying criteria that collectibility must be reasonably assured at the levels set for each customer. Extensive evaluations are performed on an ongoing basis throughout the fiscal year of each customer’s financial performance, cash generation, financing availability, and liquidity status. Customers are reviewed at least annually, with more frequent reviews being performed, if necessary, based on the customers’ financial condition and the level of credit being extended. For customers who are experiencing financial difficulties, management performs additional financial analyses prior to shipping to those customers on credit. Customers’ terms and credit limits are adjusted, if necessary, to reflect the results of the review. Mattel uses a variety of financial arrangements to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a credit risk, including requiring letters of credit, factoring, purchasing various forms of credit insurance with unrelated third parties, or requiring cash in advance of shipment.

The following table summarizes Mattel’s allowance for doubtful accounts:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mattel’s allowance for doubtful accounts is based on management’s assessment of the business environment, customers’ financial condition, historical collection experience, accounts receivable aging, and customer disputes. Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts reflect management’s assessment of the factors noted above, including past due accounts, disputed balances with customers, and the financial condition of customers. The allowance for doubtful accounts is also affected by the time at which uncollectible accounts receivable balances are actually written off.

Mattel believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2017 is adequate and proper. However, as described above, Mattel’s business is greatly dependent on a small number of customers. Should one or more of Mattel’s major customers experience liquidity problems, then the allowance for doubtful accounts may not be sufficient to cover such losses. Any incremental bad debt charges would negatively affect the results of operations of one or more of Mattel’s business segments.

Inventories—Allowance for Obsolescence

Inventories, net of an allowance for excess quantities and obsolescence, are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Inventory obsolescence reserves are recorded for damaged, obsolete, excess, and slow-moving inventory. Inventory allowances are charged to cost of sales and establish a lower cost basis for the inventory. Management believes that the accounting estimate related to the allowance for obsolescence is a "critical accounting estimate" because changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimate could materially affect key financial measures, including gross profit, net income, and inventories. As more fully described below, valuation of Mattel’s inventory could be impacted by changes in public and consumer preferences, demand for product, or changes in the buying patterns of both retailers and consumers and inventory management of customers.

In the toy industry, orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment since actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in excess inventory in a particular product line, which would require management to record a valuation adjustment on such inventory.

43

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Mattel ships products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by its customers, who usually request delivery within three months. In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three quarters of its fiscal year. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times create risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers are also attempting to manage their inventories more tightly, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase inventory valuation risk since Mattel’s inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed.

When current conditions in the domestic and global economies become uncertain, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts of the economy, including the economies in which Mattel participates. Because all components of Mattel’s budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets it serves and demand for its products, economic uncertainty makes estimates of future demand for product more difficult. Such economic changes may affect the sales of Mattel’s products and its corresponding inventory levels, which could potentially impact the valuation of its inventory.

At the end of each quarter, management within each business segment, North America, International, and American Girl, performs a detailed review of its inventory on an item-by-item basis and identifies products that are believed to be impaired. Management assesses the need for, and the amount of, an obsolescence reserve based on the following factors: 

•Customer and/or consumer demand for the item;

•Overall inventory positions of Mattel’s customers;

•Strength of competing products in the market;

•Quantity on hand of the item;

•Sales price of the item;

•Mattel’s cost for the item; and

•Length of time the item has been in inventory.

The timeframe between when an estimate is made and the time of disposal depends on the above factors and may vary significantly. Generally, slow-moving inventory is liquidated during the next annual selling cycle.

The following table summarizes Mattel’s obsolescence reserve:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Management believes that its allowance for obsolescence at December 31, 2017 is adequate and proper. However, the impact resulting from the aforementioned factors could cause actual results to vary. Any incremental obsolescence charges would negatively affect the results of operations of one or more of Mattel’s business segments. During 2017, Mattel recorded obsolescence expense of $58.3 million, $22.4 million, and $46.9 million in the North America, International, and American Girl segments, respectively, due to a decline in sales and expected demand and the discontinuation of certain product lines.

Goodwill and Nonamortizable Intangible Assets

Mattel tests goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets for impairment annually or more often if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment may have occurred. Management believes that the accounting estimates related to the fair value estimates of its goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets are "critical accounting estimates" because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimates could materially affect key financial measures, including net income, goodwill, and other intangible assets.

44

Assessing goodwill for impairment involves a high degree of judgment due to the assumptions that underlie the valuation. For purposes of evaluating whether goodwill is impaired, goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are at the operating segment level. Mattel’s reporting units are: (i) North America, (ii) International, and (iii) American Girl. Mattel then assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. This qualitative assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test. 

When the quantitative goodwill impairment test is necessary, impairment is determined by estimating the fair value of a reporting unit and comparing that value to the reporting unit’s book value. In the third quarter of 2017, Mattel early adopted ASU 2017-04 Intangibles - Goodwill and Other: Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, which removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to the excess, limited by the amount of goodwill in that reporting unit.

When performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test, Mattel utilizes the fair value based upon both the discounted cash flows that the business can be expected to generate in the future (the "Income Approach") and the Market Approach. The Income Approach valuation method requires Mattel to make projections of revenue, operating costs, and working capital investment for the reporting unit over a multi-year period. Additionally, management must make an estimate of a weighted average cost of capital that a market participant would use as a discount rate. Changes in these projections or estimates would impact the estimated fair value, which could significantly change the amount of any impairment ultimately recorded. The Market Approach utilizes earnings multiples of comparable public companies, which are reflective of the market in which each respective reporting unit operates, and recent comparable market transactions.

In the third quarter of 2017, Mattel performed its annual impairment tests and determined that goodwill was not impaired since each reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value. The fair values of the North America and American Girl reporting units were substantially in excess of their carrying value. Mattel’s International reporting unit was deemed to be at risk of failing the goodwill impairment test. The estimated fair value was approximately 1.39x its carrying value. 

In the fourth quarter of 2017, Mattel determined that a triggering event had occurred based on its fourth quarter results and updated outlook. As a result, Mattel performed an interim impairment test for each of its reporting units. The fair value of the North America and American Girl reporting units were substantially in excess of their carrying value. Mattel's International reporting unit was deemed to be at risk of failing the goodwill impairment test, with an estimated fair value approximately 1.08x its carrying value. The International reporting unit did not meet its estimated profitability targets for 2017, primarily due to higher sales adjustments and gross margin decline, and as a result, a downward revision was made to future years' forecasts. If the International reporting unit does not meet its future forecasts due to factors such as lower than expected sales or depressed gross margins, its goodwill may be impaired. 

Testing nonamortizable intangible assets for impairment also involves a high degree of judgment due to the assumptions that underlie the valuation. Mattel evaluates its nonamortizable intangible asset by comparing the estimated fair value with the carrying value. The fair value is measured using a multi-period excess earnings method, which reflects the incremental after-tax cash flows after deducting the appropriate contributory asset charges.

In the third quarter of 2017, Mattel performed the annual impairment test for its nonamortizable intangible asset as required and determined that the nonamortizable intangible asset was not impaired as the fair value exceeded its carrying value. 

In the fourth quarter of 2017, Mattel determined a triggering event had occurred due to a change in brand strategy, which resulted in lower forecasted revenue attributable to the nonamortizable intangible asset. As a result, Mattel performed an interim impairment test which determined that the fair value was in excess of its carrying value, with an estimated fair value approximately 1.05x its carrying value. As such, Mattel determined that the intangible asset should no longer be designated as a nonamortizable intangible asset, but should be amortized starting in the fourth quarter of 2017.

Sales Adjustments

Mattel routinely enters into arrangements with its customers to provide sales incentives, support customer promotions, and provide allowances for returns and defective merchandise. Such programs are based primarily on customer purchases, customer performance of specified promotional activities, and other specified factors such as sales to consumers. Accruals for these programs are recorded as sales adjustments that reduce gross sales in the period the related sale is recognized. Sales adjustments for such programs totaled $632.2 million, $617.0 million, and $581.0 million during 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.

45

The above-described programs primarily involve fixed amounts or percentages of sales to customers. Accruals for such programs are calculated based on an assessment of customers’ purchases and performance under the programs and any other specified factors. While the majority of sales adjustment amounts are readily determinable at period end and do not require estimates, certain of the sales adjustments require management to make estimates. In making these estimates, management considers all available information, including the overall business environment, historical trends, and information from customers. Management believes that the accruals recorded for customer programs as of December 31, 2017 are adequate and proper.

Benefit Plan Assumptions

Mattel and certain of its subsidiaries have retirement and other postretirement benefit plans covering substantially all employees of these companies. See Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Employee Benefit Plans."

Actuarial valuations are used in determining amounts recognized in the financial statements for certain retirement and other postretirement benefit plans. These valuations incorporate the following significant assumptions: 

•Weighted average discount rate to be used to measure future plan obligations and interest cost component of plan income or expense;

•Rate of future compensation increases (for defined benefit pension plans);

•Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (for funded plans); and

•Health care cost trend rates (for other postretirement benefit plans).

Management believes that these assumptions are "critical accounting estimates" because significant changes in these assumptions could impact Mattel’s results of operations and financial position. Management believes that the assumptions utilized to record its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on the plans’ experience and advice received from its outside actuaries. Mattel reviews its benefit plan assumptions annually and modifies its assumptions based on current rates and trends as appropriate. The effects of such changes in assumptions are amortized as part of plan income or expense in future periods.

At the end of each fiscal year, Mattel determines the weighted average discount rate used to calculate the projected benefit obligation. The discount rate is an estimate of the current interest rate at which the benefit plan liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year. The discount rate also impacts the interest cost component of plan income or expense. As of December 31, 2017, Mattel determined the discount rate for its domestic benefit plans used in determining the projected and accumulated benefit obligations to be 3.4%, as compared to 3.9% and 4.2% as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In estimating this rate, Mattel reviews rates of return on high-quality corporate bond indices, which approximate the timing and amount of benefit payments. Assuming all other benefit plan assumptions remain constant, the decrease in the discount rate from 3.9% to 3.4% would result in a decrease in benefit plan expense during 2018 of $0.4 million.

As a result of the curtailment of Mattel's domestic defined benefit pension plans, the rate of future compensation increase was not applicable for the 2017 and 2016 benefit obligation and net periodic pension cost calculations. The rate of future compensation increases used by Mattel for the benefit obligation and the net periodic pension cost of its domestic defined benefit pension plans averaged 3.8% for 2015, based on plan demographics. Prior to the curtailment, this assumption was reviewed annually based on historical salary increases for participants in the defined benefit pension plans and impacted the service and interest cost components of plan income or expense.

The long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on management’s expectation of earnings on the assets that secure Mattel’s funded defined benefit pension plans, taking into account the mix of invested assets, the arithmetic average of past returns, economic and stock market conditions and future expectations, and the long-term nature of the projected benefit obligation to which these investments relate. The long-term rate of return is used to calculate the expected return on plan assets that is used in calculating pension income or expense. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred, net of tax, and is included in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The net deferral of past asset gains or losses affects the calculated value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension income or expense. Mattel’s long-term rate of return used in determining plan expense for its domestic defined benefit pension plans was 6.3% in 2017, as compared to 6.5% in 2016 and 7.5% during the first half of 2015, revised to 6.8% for the second half of 2015. Assuming all other benefit plan assumptions remain constant, a one percentage point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase in benefit plan expense during 2018 of $3.4 million.

46

The health care cost trend rates used by Mattel for its other postretirement benefit plans reflect management’s best estimate of expected claim costs over the next ten years. These trend rates impact the service and interest cost components of plan expense. Rates ranging from 7.8% in 2017 to 4.5% in 2024, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2024 and thereafter, were used in determining plan expense for 2017. These rates are reviewed annually and are estimated based on historical costs for participants in the other postretirement benefit plans as well as estimates based on current economic conditions. As of December 31, 2017, Mattel maintained the health care cost trend rates for its other postretirement benefit plan obligation at 7.0% for participants younger than age 65, and 7.8% for participants age 65 and older. For all participants, the cost trend rates are estimated to reduce to 4.5% by 2024, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2024. Assuming all other postretirement benefit plan assumptions remain constant, a one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would not result in a material increase in benefit plan expense during 2018.

A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each future year would not materially impact the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2017 or the service and interest cost recognized for 2017.

Share-Based Payments

Mattel recognizes the cost of employee share-based payment awards on a straight-line attribution basis over the requisite employee service period, net of estimated forfeitures. Determining the fair value of share-based awards at the measurement date requires judgment, including estimating the expected term that stock options will be outstanding prior to exercise, the associated volatility, and the expected dividends. Mattel estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected life of the options used in this calculation is the period of time the options are expected to be outstanding and has been determined based on historical exercise experience. Expected stock price volatility is based on the historical volatility of Mattel’s stock for a period approximating the expected life, the expected dividend yield is based on Mattel’s most recent actual annual dividend payout, and the risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues approximating the expected life. Judgment is also required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that will be forfeited prior to vesting. Management believes that these assumptions are "critical accounting estimates" because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimates could materially affect key financial measures, including net income.

The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted during 2017, 2016, and 2015 was $3.37, $4.09, and $1.97, respectively. The following weighted average assumptions were used in determining the fair value of options granted:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following tables summarizes the sensitivity of valuation assumptions within the calculation of stock option fair values, if all other assumptions are held constant:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

47

Mattel recognized compensation expense of $14.1 million, $10.5 million, and $15.2 million for stock options during 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, which is included within other selling and administrative expenses. Compensation expense recognized related to grants of restricted stock units ("RSUs"), including performance-based restricted stock units ("Performance RSUs"), was $53.0 million, $43.4 million, and $41.5 million in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, and is also included within other selling and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2017, total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based payments totaled $105.5 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.

Income Taxes 

Mattel’s income tax provision and related income tax assets and liabilities are based on actual and expected future income, U.S. and foreign statutory income tax rates, and tax regulations and planning opportunities in the various jurisdictions in which Mattel operates. Management believes that the accounting estimates related to income taxes are "critical accounting estimates" because significant judgment is required in interpreting tax regulations in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, evaluating Mattel’s worldwide uncertain tax positions, and assessing the likelihood of realizing certain tax benefits. Actual results could differ materially from those judgments, and changes in judgments could materially affect Mattel’s consolidated financial statements. 

Certain income and expense items are accounted for differently for financial reporting and income tax purposes. As a result, the income tax expense reflected in Mattel’s consolidated statements of operations is different than that reported in Mattel’s tax returns filed with the taxing authorities. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in Mattel’s tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These timing differences create deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in Mattel’s tax returns in future years for which Mattel has already recorded a tax benefit in its consolidated statements of operations. Mattel records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred income tax assets if, based on the weight of available evidence, management believes expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction. Management evaluates the level of Mattel’s valuation allowances at least annually, and more frequently if actual operating results differ significantly from forecasted results. 

Mattel records unrecognized tax benefits for U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign tax positions related primarily to transfer pricing, tax credits claimed, tax nexus, and apportionment. For each reporting period, management applies a consistent methodology to measure unrecognized tax benefits and all unrecognized tax benefits are reviewed periodically and adjusted as circumstances warrant. Mattel’s measurement of its unrecognized tax benefits is based on management’s assessment of all relevant information, including prior audit experience, the status of audits, conclusions of tax audits, lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, identification of new issues, and any administrative guidance or developments. Mattel recognizes unrecognized tax benefits in the first financial reporting period in which information becomes available indicating that such benefits will more-likely-than-not (a greater than 50 percent likelihood) be realized. 

Mattel’s effective tax rate on loss before income taxes was (108.7)% in 2017, as compared to an effective tax rate on income before income taxes of 22.4% in 2016 and 20.4% in 2015. The income tax provision included net tax expenses of $454.4 million in 2017, and net tax benefits of $16.8 million and $19.1 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The 2017 net tax expense primarily relates to the establishment of a valuation allowance in the third quarter of 2017 on U.S. deferred tax assets that will likely not be realized and a provisional estimate of the impact of U.S. Tax Reform in the fourth quarter of 2017. The 2016 net tax benefits primarily relate to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, enacted tax law changes, and the adoption of a new accounting pronouncement. The 2015 net tax benefits primarily relate to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes. 

In the normal course of business, Mattel is regularly audited by federal, state, local, and foreign tax authorities. The ultimate settlement of any particular issue with the applicable taxing authority could have a material impact on Mattel’s consolidated financial statements. 

New Accounting Pronouncements

See Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

To supplement the financial results presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, Mattel presents certain non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-

48

GAAP financial measures that Mattel presents include currency exchange rate impact and gross sales. Mattel uses these metrics to analyze its continuing operations and to monitor, assess, and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Mattel believes that the disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplemental information to investors to be able to better evaluate ongoing business performance and certain components of Mattel's results. These measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for GAAP financial measures and may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.

Currency Exchange Rate Impact

The currency exchange rate impact reflects the portion (expressed as a percentage) of changes in Mattel's reported results that are attributable to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

For entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, Mattel calculates the percentage change of period-over-period results at constant currency exchange rates (established as described below) by translating current period and prior period results using these rates. It then determines the currency exchange rate impact percentage by calculating the difference between the percentage change at such constant currency exchange rates and the percentage change at actual exchange rates.

The consistent exchange rates are determined by Mattel at the beginning of each year and are applied consistently during the year. They are generally different from the actual exchange rates in effect during the current or prior period due to volatility in actual foreign exchange rates. Mattel considers whether any changes to the constant currency rates are appropriate at the beginning of each year. The exchange rates used for these constant currency calculations are generally based on prior year actual exchange rates.

Mattel believes that the disclosure of the percentage impact of foreign currency changes is useful supplemental information for investors to be able to gauge Mattel’s current business performance and the longer term strength of its overall business since foreign currency changes could potentially mask underlying sales trends. The disclosure of the percentage impact of foreign exchange allows investors to calculate the impact on a constant currency basis and also enhances their ability to compare financial results from one period to another.

Gross Sales

Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Net sales, as reported, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, brand, and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel’s business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the details of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with brands and individual products, making net sales less meaningful. Because sales adjustments are not allocated to individual products, net sales are only presented on a consolidated and segment basis and not on a brand level.

Since sales adjustments are determined by customer rather than at the brand level, Mattel believes that the disclosure of gross sales by brand is useful supplemental information for investors to be able to assess the performance of its underlying brands (e.g., Barbie) and also enhances their ability to compare sales trends over time.

A reconciliation from Mattel's consolidated net sales to its consolidated gross sales is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

49

A reconciliation from net sales to gross sales for the North America segment is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A reconciliation from net sales to gross sales for the International segment is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A reconciliation from net sales to gross sales for the American Girl segment is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.