Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may impact Mattel’s results of operations and cash flows. Inventory transactions denominated in the Euro, Mexican peso, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Brazilian real, and Russian ruble were the primary transactions that caused foreign currency transaction exposure for Mattel in 2017. Mattel seeks to mitigate its exposure to market risk by monitoring its foreign currency transaction exposure for the year and partially hedging such exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts generally have maturity dates of up to 18 months. For those intercompany receivables and payables that are not hedged, the transaction gains or losses are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations in the period in which the exchange rate changes as part of operating income or other non-operating income/expense, net based on the nature of the underlying transaction. Transaction gains or losses on hedged intercompany inventory transactions are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations in the period in which the inventory is sold to customers. In addition, Mattel manages its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through the selection of currencies used for international borrowings. Mattel does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.

50

Mattel’s financial position is also impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations on translation of its net investments in subsidiaries with non-U.S. dollar functional currencies. Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries with non-U.S. dollar functional currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at fiscal year-end exchange rates. Income, expense, and cash flow items are translated at weighted average exchange rates prevailing during the fiscal year. The resulting currency translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity. Mattel’s primary currency translation exposures in 2017 were related to its net investments in entities having functional currencies denominated in the Euro and British pound sterling.

There are numerous factors impacting the amount by which Mattel’s financial results are affected by foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses resulting from changes in currency exchange rates, including, but not limited to, the level of foreign currency forward exchange contracts in place at a given time and the volume of foreign currency-denominated transactions in a given period. However, assuming that such factors were held constant, Mattel estimates that a 1 percent change in the U.S. dollar Trade-Weighted Index would impact Mattel’s net sales by approximately 0.5% and its full year loss per share by approximately $0.01 to $0.03.

Mattel’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts that were used to hedge firm foreign currency commitments as of December 31, 2017 are shown below. All contracts in the following table are against the U.S. dollar and are maintained by reporting units with a U.S. dollar functional currency, with the exception of the Indonesian rupiah contracts, which are maintained by entities with an Indonesian rupiah functional currency.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* The weighted average contract rate for these contracts is quoted in U.S. dollar per local currency. 

For the purchase of foreign currencies, fair value reflects the amount, based on dealer quotes, that Mattel would pay at maturity for contracts involving the same notional amounts, currencies, and maturity dates, if they had been entered into as of December 31, 2017. For the sale of foreign currencies, fair value reflects the amount, based on dealer quotes, that Mattel would receive at maturity for contracts involving the same notional amounts, currencies, and maturity dates, if they had been entered into as of December 31, 2017. The differences between the market forward amounts and the contract amounts are expected to be fully offset by currency transaction gains and losses on the underlying hedged transactions.

In addition to the contracts involving the U.S. dollar detailed in the above table, Mattel also had contracts to sell British pound sterling for the purchase of Euro. As of December 31, 2017, these contracts had a contract amount of $46.1 million and a fair value of $1.2 million.

51

Had Mattel not entered into hedges to limit the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on its results of operations and cash flows, its loss before income taxes would have increased by approximately $54 million in 2017, and its income before income taxes would have decreased by approximately $7 million in 2016 and increased by approximately $6 million in 2015.

Venezuelan Operations

Since January 1, 2010, Mattel has accounted for Venezuela as a highly inflationary economy as the three-year cumulative inflation rate for Venezuela exceeded 100%. Accordingly, Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary uses the U.S. dollar as its functional currency, and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Venezuelan bolívar fuerte ("BsF") generate income or expense for changes in value associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations against the U.S. dollar. From January 2010 through January 2013, Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary used the Sistema de Transacciones con Títulos en Moneda Extranjera ("SITME") rate, which was quoted at 5.30 BsF per U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2012, to remeasure monetary assets and liabilities denominated in BsF. During February 2013, the Central Bank of Venezuela revised its official exchange rate to 6.30 BsF per U.S. dollar and eliminated the SITME rate.

During March 2013, the Venezuelan government introduced a complementary currency exchange system, the Sistema Complementario de Administración de Divisas 1 ("SICAD 1"). SICAD 1 was intended to function as an auction system, allowing entities in specific sectors to bid for U.S. dollars to be used for specified import transactions. During February 2014, the Venezuelan government introduced an additional currency exchange system, the Sistema Complementario de Administración de Divisas 2 ("SICAD 2"), which was expected to provide a greater supply of U.S. dollars from sources other than the Venezuelan government and increase participation to all sectors and companies.

During February 2015, the Venezuelan government announced the launch of a new three-tiered currency exchange platform, which included a new exchange system called the Marginal Currency System ("SIMADI"). The first tier was used for food, medicine, agriculture, and other essential goods and used an official exchange rate of 6.30 BsF per U.S. dollar. The second tier was a merger of the SICAD 1 and SICAD 2 systems, which held periodic auctions for entities in specific sectors. The third tier was the new SIMADI system, which was intended to be a market-driven exchange that allowed for legal trading of foreign currency based on supply and demand.

During March 2016, the Venezuelan government further revised its currency exchange platform to a dual system. The SICAD rate merged with the official exchange rate, becoming the new Tipo de Cambio Protegido ("DIPRO") exchange rate, which was fixed at 10.00 BsF per U.S. dollar. The existing SIMADI rate was renamed the Tipo de Cambio Complementario ("DICOM") exchange rate. The DIPRO rate is used for essential imports, such as food and medicine, whereas the DICOM rate is used for all other transactions. During the first quarter of 2016, Mattel changed its remeasurement rate from the official exchange rate to the new DICOM exchange rate. The change in the remeasurement rate resulted in an unrealized foreign currency exchange loss of approximately $26 million, which was recognized in other non-operating expense/income, net in the consolidated statements of operations in the first quarter of 2016.

During May 2017, the Venezuelan government initiated an auction mechanism within the DICOM exchange rate system, which was not accessed by Mattel. During December 2017, Mattel initiated actions to discontinue operations in Venezuela and concluded that its Venezuelan subsidiary had been substantially liquidated. In connection with the substantial liquidation, Mattel recognized a $59.0 million loss in other non-operating expense/income, net in the consolidated statements of operations related to the associated cumulative translation adjustments. 

United Kingdom Operations

During June 2016, the referendum by British voters to exit the European Union ("Brexit") adversely impacted global markets and resulted in a sharp decline of the British pound sterling against the U.S. dollar. In February 2017, the British Parliament voted in favor of allowing the British government to begin the formal process of Brexit and discussions with the European Union began in March 2017. In the short-term, volatility in the British pound sterling could continue as the United Kingdom negotiates its anticipated exit from the European Union. In the longer term, any impact from Brexit on Mattel's United Kingdom operations will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade, regulatory, and other negotiations. Mattel's United Kingdom operations represented approximately 4% of Mattel's consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017.

52

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.