Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions)

General

During 2011, the Company continued to strengthen its financial performance through pricing discipline, continued growth of its esoteric testing, outcome improvement and companion diagnostics offerings, and expense control.

The Company's acquisition of Genzyme Genetics in December 2010 has helped to expand the Company’s capabilities in reproductive, genetic, hematology-oncology and clinical trials central laboratory testing, enhance the Company’s esoteric testing capabilities and advance the Company’s personalized medicine strategy. The Genzyme Genetics acquisition contributed approximately 6.8% to the Company's 10.8% growth in net sales experienced in 2011.

In July 2011, the Company reached a settlement in the previously disclosed lawsuit, California ex rel. Hunter Laboratories, LLC et al. v. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, et al. to avoid the uncertainty and costs associated with prolonged litigation. Pursuant to the executed settlement agreement, the Company paid $49.5 in the third quarter of 2011 to resolve all claims brought against the Company in the lawsuit without any admission of liability. In connection with the settlement, the Company recorded litigation settlement expense of $34.5 ($49.5 settlement, net of previously recorded reserves of $15.0) in the second quarter of 2011. This expense was recorded in Selling, General and Administrative expense in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations.

In September 2011, the Company announced that it had extended the term of its agreement with UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company, an affiliate of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, for an additional two years. The agreement, which was effective January 1, 2007, will now continue through the end of 2018.

Following the closing of its acquisition of Orchid Cellmark Inc. (“Orchid”) in mid-December, the Company recorded a net $2.8 loss on its divestiture of certain assets of Orchid's U.S. government paternity business, under the terms of the agreement reached with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. This non-deductible loss on disposal was recorded in Other Income and Expense in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations.

In November 2011, the Company acquired an additional 12.6% ownership interest from the holders of the non-controlling interest in the Ontario joint venture in accordance with the terms of the joint venture's partnership agreement, bringing the Company's ownership interest to 98.2%.

On December 21, 2011, the Company entered into a new $1,000.0 revolving credit facility. As part of this new financing, the Company repaid all of the outstanding balances of $318.8 on its term loan and $235.0 on its previous revolving credit facility. In conjunction with the repayment and cancellation of its old credit agreement, the Company recorded approximately $1.0 of unamortized debt costs as interest expense in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations during the fourth quarter of 2011.

Seasonality

The majority of the Company’s testing volume is dependent on patient visits to physician offices and other providers of health care. Volume of testing generally declines during the year-end holiday periods and other major holidays. In addition, volume declines due to inclement weather may reduce net revenues and cash flows. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year.

Results of Operations (amounts in millions except Revenue Per Requisition info)

Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009

Operating results for the year ended December 31, 2011 were impacted by a challenging economic climate, offset by growth resulting from the Company's 2010 acquisitions of Genzyme Genetics and Westcliff, along with organic growth within its core operations. Inclement weather reduced volumes by an estimated 0.1% and 0.3%, and revenue by an estimated $26.0 and $23.0 during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

38

Index

Net Sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in net sales for the three years ended December 31, 2011 has been driven primarily by acquisitions made in all years (most significantly in the second half of 2010), along with growth in the Company's managed care business, increased revenue from third parties (Medicare and Medicaid), the Company's continued shift in test mix to higher-priced genomic and esoteric tests, and growth in revenue per requisition in the Company's routine testing. Managed care and third party revenue as a percentage of net sales increased from 61.8% in 2009 to 62.8% in 2011. Genomic and esoteric testing volume as a percentage of total volume increased from 21.6% in 2009 to 23.7% in 2011. The continuing impact of government contracts terminated during 2009 reduced routine testing volume by 0.1% and 1.8% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Revenue per requisition growth was impacted in 2010 by lost contracts and the recognition of deferred revenue resulting from an amendment to a customer contract, which together improved revenue per requisition by approximately 1.6%. In 2011, the Company's 2010 acquisition of Genzyme Genetics contributed 6.8% to the overall 10.8% growth in revenue and 0.9% to the overall 3.5% growth in volume. Net sales of the Ontario joint venture were $309.4, $280.0 and $247.5 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, an increase of $29.4 or 10.5%, and $32.5 or 13.1% in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net sales for the Ontario joint venture were impacted by a weaker U.S. dollar in 2011 and a stronger U.S. dollar in 2010 and 2009. In Canadian dollars, net sales of the Ontario joint venture for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were CN$ 306.0, CN$ 288.5 and CN$ 281.3, respectively. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of sales (primarily laboratory and distribution costs) has increased over the three year period ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to overall growth in the Company's volume, as well as increases in labor, the continued shift in test mix to higher cost genomic and esoteric testing and the impact of acquisitions. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales has increased during the three year period ended December 31, 2011 from 58.0% in 2009 to 59.0% in 2011. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was comparable for 2010 and 2009. The increase in 2011 cost of sales as a percentage of net sales is primarily attributable to recent acquisitions that have not been fully integrated into the Company's operating cost structure as of December 31, 2011. Labor and testing supplies comprise over 77% of the Company’s cost of sales.

39

Index

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) as a percentage of sales over the three year period ended December 31, 2011 have ranged from 20.4% to 20.9%. Bad debt expense decreased to 4.6% of net sales in 2011 as compared with 4.8% and 5.3% in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The lower bad debt expense as a percentage of net sales in 2011 and 2010 is primarily due to improved collection trends resulting from process improvement programs within the Company’s billing department and field operations.

The increase in SG&A as a percentage of net sales in 2011 as compared with 2010 is primarily due to net litigation settlement expense of $34.5 recorded in 2011. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of net sales in 2010 as compared to 2009 is due to acquisition related costs of $25.7 in 2010, along with expenses from recently acquired operations that had not been fully integrated into the Company's operating cost structure.

Amortization of Intangibles and Other Assets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets over the three year period ended December 31, 2011 primarily reflects the impact of acquisitions closed during all three years.

Restructuring and Other Special Charges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2011, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $44.6. Of this amount, $27.4 related to severance and other personnel costs, and $22.0 primarily related to facility-related costs associated with the ongoing integration of certain acquisitions including Genzyme Genetics and Westcliff. These restructuring initiatives are expected to provide annualized cost savings of approximately $99.7. These charges were offset by restructuring credits of $4.8 resulting from the reversal of unused severance and facility closure liabilities. In addition, the Company recorded fixed assets impairment charges of $18.9 primarily related to equipment, computer systems and leasehold improvements in closed facilities. The Company also recorded special charges of $14.8 related to the write-off of certain assets and liabilities related to an investment made in prior years, along with a $2.6 write-off of an uncollectible receivable from a past installment sale of one of the Company's lab operations.

During 2010, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $5.8 primarily related to work force reductions and the closing of redundant and underutilized facilities. Of this amount, $8.0 related to severance and other employee costs in connection with certain work force reductions and $3.1 related to contractual obligations associated with leased facilities and other facility related costs. These restructuring initiatives are expected to provide annualized cost savings of approximately $34.7. The Company also reduced its prior restructuring accruals by $5.3, comprised of $4.7 of previously recorded facility costs and $0.6 of employee severance benefits as a result of changes in cost estimates on the restructuring initiatives. In addition, the Company recorded a special charge of $6.2 related to the write-off of development costs incurred on systems abandoned during the year.

During 2009, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $13.5 primarily related to the closing of redundant and underutilized facilities. Of this amount, $10.5 related to severance and other employee costs for employees primarily in the affected facilities, and $12.5 related to contractual obligations associated with leased facilities and other facility related costs. The Company also reduced its prior restructuring accruals by $9.5, comprised of $7.3 of previously recorded facility costs and $2.2 of employee 

40

Index

severance benefits as a result of incurring less cost than planned on those restructuring initiatives primarily resulting from favorable settlements on lease buyouts and severance payments that were not required to achieve the planned reduction in work force.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest expense for 2011 as compared to 2010 is primarily due to interest incurred during 2011 in connection with the senior notes offering of $925.0 in November 2010, which was outstanding for all of 2011. Certain interest related costs decreased due to lower average borrowings outstanding during 2011 as compared with 2010 primarily due to principal payments on the prior Term Loan Facility and the settlement of approximately $155.1 of the zero-coupon subordinated notes during the year. In addition, the effective interest rate on the Term Loan Facility was lower in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to the expiration of the interest rate swap on March 31, 2011. In conjunction with the repayment and cancellation of its old credit agreement in December 2011, the Company recorded approximately $1.0 of unamortized debt costs as interest expense in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company recorded $7.0 of bridge financing fees in the 2010 period related to the signing of the definitive agreement to acquire Genzyme Genetics in September 2010.

Equity Method Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity method income represents the Company’s ownership share in joint venture partnerships along with stock investments in other companies in the clinical diagnostic industry. The decrease in income since 2009 is primarily due to the Company’s share of losses in the Cincinnati, Ohio joint venture and the Canada, China and Western Europe equity method investment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The effective tax rate for 2011 was negatively impacted by non-deductible losses incurred in certain subsidiaries of the Company. The effective tax rate for 2010 was favorably impacted by a benefit relating to the net decrease in unrecognized income tax benefits. The effective tax rate for 2009 was favorably impacted by adjustments of $21.5 relating to the resolution of certain state tax issues under audit, as well as the realization of foreign tax credits.

Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position

The Company’s strong cash-generating capability and financial condition typically have provided ready access to capital markets. The Company’s principal source of liquidity is operating cash flow, supplemented by proceeds from debt offerings. This cash-generating capability is one of the Company’s fundamental strengths and provides substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. The Company’s senior unsecured revolving credit facility is further discussed in "Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements."

Operating Activities

In 2011, the Company’s operations provided $855.6 of cash, reflecting the Company’s solid business results. The decrease in the Company’s cash flow from operations primarily resulted from a litigation settlement of $49.5 which was paid in September 2011. The Company continued to focus on efforts to increase cash collections from all payers and to generate on-going improvements to the claim submission processes.

The Company made contributions to the defined benefit retirement plan (“Company Plan”) of $0.0, $0.0 and $54.8 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In October 2009, the Company received approval from its Board of Directors to freeze any additional service-based credits for any years of service after December 31, 2009 on the Company Plan and the PEP. Both plans have been 

41

Index

closed to new participants. Employees participating in the Company Plan and the PEP no longer earn service-based credits, but

continue to earn interest credits. In addition, effective January 1, 2010, all employees eligible for the defined contribution retirement plan (the “401K Plan”) receive a minimum 3% non-elective contribution (“NEC”) concurrent with each payroll period. The NEC replaces the Company match, which has been discontinued. Employees are not required to make a contribution to the 401K Plan to receive the NEC. The NEC is non-forfeitable and vests immediately. The 401K Plan also permits discretionary contributions by the Company of 1% to 3% of pay for eligible employees based on years of service. Non-elective and discretionary contributions were comparable in 2011, compared to 2010, but were approximately $25.4 higher in 2010 than the Company’s contributions to its 401K Plan in 2009.

Projected pension expense for the Company Plan and PEP is expected to increase from $8.6 in 2011 to $12.2 in 2012. The Company plans to make contributions of $14.6 to the Company Plan during 2012. See “Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements” for a further discussion of the Company’s pension and postretirement plans.

Investing Activities

Capital expenditures were $145.7, $126.1 and $114.7 for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company expects capital expenditures of approximately $155.0 in 2012. The Company will continue to make important investments in its business, including information technology. Such expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations, as well as borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facilities as needed.

The Company remains committed to growing its business through strategic acquisitions and licensing agreements. The Company has invested a total of $1,531.2 over the past three years in strategic business acquisitions. These acquisitions have helped strengthen the Company’s geographic presence along with expanding capabilities in the specialty testing operations. The Company believes the acquisition market remains attractive with a number of opportunities to strengthen its scientific capabilities, grow esoteric testing capabilities and increase presence in key geographic areas.

The Company has invested a total of $50.8 over the past three years in licensing new testing technologies (including approximately $49.4 estimated fair market value of technology acquired in certain acquisitions in 2010 and 2009) and had $66.2 net book value of capitalized patents, licenses and technology as of December 31, 2011. While the Company continues to believe its strategy of entering into licensing and technology distribution agreements with the developers of leading-edge technologies will provide future growth in revenues, there are certain risks associated with these investments. These risks include, but are not limited to, the failure of the licensed technology to gain broad acceptance in the marketplace and/or that insurance companies, managed care organizations, or Medicare and Medicaid will not approve reimbursement for these tests at a level commensurate with the costs of running the tests. Any or all of these circumstances could result in impairment in the value of the related capitalized licensing costs.

Financing Activities

On December 21, 2011, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") providing for a five-year $1,000.0 senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) with Bank of America, N.A., acting as Administrative Agent, Barclays Capital as Syndication Agent, and a group of financial institutions as lending parties. As part of the new Revolving Credit Facility, the Company repaid all of the outstanding balances of $318.8 on its existing term loan facility and $235.0 on its existing revolving credit facility. In conjunction with the repayment and cancellation of its old credit facility, the Company recorded approximately $1.0 of remaining unamortized debt costs as interest expense in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. The balances outstanding on the Company's Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 were $560.0 and $0.0, respectively. The Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at varying rates based upon a base rate or LIBOR plus (in each case) a percentage based on the Company's debt rating with Standard & Poor's and Moody's Ratings Services. 

 The Revolving Credit Facility is available for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, funding of share repurchases and other restricted payments permitted under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement also contains limitations on aggregate subsidiary indebtedness and a debt covenant that requires that the Company maintain on the last day of any period for four consecutive fiscal quarters, in each case taken as one accounting period, a ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization) of not more than 3.0 to 1.0. The Company was in compliance with all covenants in the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2011.

As of December 31, 2011, the effective interest rate on the Revolving Credit Facility was 1.26%.

The interest rate swap agreement to hedge variable interest rate risk on the Company's variable interest rate term loan expired 

42

Index

on March 31, 2011. On a quarterly basis under the swap, the Company paid a fixed rate of interest (2.92%) and received a variable rate of interest based on the three-month LIBOR rate on an amortizing notional amount of indebtedness equivalent to the term loan balance outstanding. The swap was designated as a cash flow hedge. Accordingly, the Company recognized the fair value of the swap in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and any changes in the fair value were recorded as adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. The fair value of the interest rate swap agreement was the estimated amount that the Company would have paid or received to terminate the swap agreement at the reporting date. The fair value of the swap was a liability of $2.4 at December 31, 2010 and was included in other liabilities in the respective condensed consolidated balance sheet.

On October 28, 2010, in conjunction with the acquisition of Genzyme Genetics, the Company entered into a $925.0 Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement, among the Company, the lenders named therein and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent (the “Bridge Facility”). The Company replaced and terminated the Bridge Facility in November 2010 by making an offering in the debt capital markets. On November 19, 2010, the Company sold $925.0 in debt securities, consisting of $325.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.125% Senior Notes due May 15, 2016 and $600.0 aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Senior Notes due November 15, 2020. Beginning on May 15, 2011, interest on the Senior Notes due 2016 and 2020 is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15. On December 1, 2010, the acquisition of Genzyme Genetics was funded by the proceeds from the issuance of these Notes ($915.4) and with cash on hand.

During 2011, the Company repurchased $643.9 of stock representing 7.4 shares. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding authorization from the Board of Directors to purchase $84.4 of Company common stock. On February 10, 2012, the Company announced the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of $500.0 of additional shares of the Company’s common stock.

During 2011, the Company settled notices to convert $190.6 aggregate principal amount at maturity of its zero-coupon subordinated notes with a conversion value of $248.9. The total cash used for these settlements was $155.1 and the Company also issued 1.0 additional shares of common stock. As a result of these conversions, the Company also reversed approximately $36.2 of deferred tax liability to reflect the tax benefit realized upon issuance of the shares. 

On August 11, 2011, the Company notified holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes that pursuant to the Indenture for the notes they have the right to require the Company to purchase in cash all or a portion of their zero-coupon subordinated notes on September 12, 2011 at $819.54 per note, plus any accrued contingent additional principal and any accrued contingent interest thereon. On September 12, 2011, the Company announced that none of the zero-coupon subordinated notes were tendered by holders for purchase by the Company.

On September 13, 2011, the Company announced that for the period of September 12, 2011 to March 11, 2012, the zero-coupon subordinated notes will accrue contingent cash interest at a rate of no less than 0.125% of the average market price of a zero-coupon subordinated note for the five trading days ended September 7, 2011, in addition to the continued accrual of the original issue discount.

On January 3, 2012, the Company announced that its zero-coupon subordinated notes may be converted into cash and common stock at the conversion rate of 13.4108 per $1,000 principal amount at maturity of the notes, subject to the terms of the zero-coupon subordinated notes and the Indenture, dated as of October 24, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee and conversion agent. In order to exercise the option to convert all or a portion of the zero-coupon subordinated notes, holders are required to validly surrender their zero-coupon subordinated notes at any time during the calendar quarter beginning January 1, 2012, through the close of business on the last business day of the calendar quarter, which is 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, March 30, 2012. If notices of conversion are received, the Company plans to settle the cash portion of the conversion obligation with cash on hand and/or borrowings under the revolving credit facility. 

Credit Ratings

The Company’s debt ratings of Baa2 from Moody’s and BBB+ from Standard and Poor’s contribute to its ability to access capital markets.

43

Index

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Contingent future licensing payments will be made if certain events take place, such as the launch of a specific test, the transfer of certain technology, and when specified revenue milestones are met.

(b)As announced by the Company on January 3, 2012, holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes may choose to convert their notes during the first quarter of 2012 subject to terms as defined in the note agreement. See “Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements” and "Credit Ratings" above for further information regarding the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes.

(c)The table does not include obligations under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, which are included in "Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements." Benefits under the Company's postretirement medical plan are made when claims are submitted for payment, the timing of which is not practicable to estimate.

(d)The table does not include the Company’s reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. The Company had a $63.5 and $65.8 reserve for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which is included in “Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Substantially all of these tax reserves are classified in other long-term liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010.

(e)The table does not include interest on the Company's Revolving Credit Facility's outstanding balance of $560.0 at December 31, 2011, which bears interest at 1.26%. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company does not have transactions or relationships with “special purpose” entities, and the Company does not have any off balance sheet financing other than normal operating leases.

Other Commercial Commitments

As of December 31, 2011, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $37.4, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs. Letters of credit provided by the Company are secured by the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility and are renewed annually, around mid-year.

The partnership units of the holders of the noncontrolling interest in the Ontario, Canada (“Ontario”) joint venture were acquired by the Company on February 8, 2010 for $137.5. On February 17, 2010, the Company completed a transaction to sell the units acquired from the previous noncontrolling interest holder to a new Canadian partner for the same price. As a result of this transaction, the Company recorded a component of noncontrolling interest in other liabilities and a component in mezzanine equity. Upon the completion of these two transactions, the Company's financial ownership percentage in the joint venture partnership remained unchanged at 85.6%. Concurrent with the sale to the new partner, the partnership agreement for the Ontario joint venture was amended and restated with substantially the same terms as the previous agreement. 

On October 14, 2011, the Company issued notice to a noncontrolling interest holder in the Ontario joint venture of its intent to purchase the holder's partnership units in accordance with the terms of the joint venture's partnership agreement. On November 28, 2011, this purchase was completed for a total purchase price of CN$ 151.7 as outlined in the partnership agreement (CN$147.8 plus certain adjustments relating to cash distribution hold backs made to finance recent business acquisitions and capital expenditures). The purchase of these additional partnership units brings the Company's percentage interest owned to 98.2%.

The contractual value of the remaining noncontrolling interest put, in excess of the current noncontrolling interest of $3.6, 

44

Index

totals $16.6 at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, $20.2 and $20.6, respectively, have been classified as mezzanine equity in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet.

At December 31, 2011, the Company was a guarantor on approximately $0.9 of equipment leases. These leases were entered into by a joint venture in which the Company owns a 50% interest and have a remaining term of approximately two years.

Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled with availability under its Revolving Credit Facility, the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet both its anticipated short-term and long-term cash needs; however, the Company continually reassesses its liquidity position in light of market conditions and other relevant factors.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In September 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to amend and simplify the rules related to testing goodwill for impairment. The revised guidance allows an entity to make an initial qualitative evaluation, based on the entity's events and circumstances, to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The results of this qualitative assessment determine whether it is necessary to perform the currently required two-step impairment test. The new guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. Adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

In July 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on the presentation and disclosure of patient service revenue, provision for bad debts, and the allowance for doubtful accounts for certain health care entities. This literature was issued to provide greater transparency about a health care entity's net patient service revenue and the related allowance for doubtful accounts. Specifically, this literature requires the provision for bad debts associated with patient service revenue to be separately displayed on the face of the statement of operations as a component of net revenue for health care entities that provide services regardless of a patient's ability to pay. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures of significant changes in estimates in the provision for bad debts relating to patient services when an entity recognizes revenue regardless of a patient's ability to pay. This guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not believe the adoption of the authoritative guidance in the first quarter of 2012 will have an impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In June 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on the presentation of comprehensive income. Specifically, this literature allows an entity to present components of net earnings and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement, referred to as the statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive statements. The authoritative guidance eliminates the current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in shareholders' equity. While the authoritative guidance changes the presentation of comprehensive income, there are no changes to the components that are recognized in net earnings or other comprehensive income under current accounting guidance. The guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company does not believe the adoption of the authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 will have an impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In May 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements between U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and International Financial Reporting Standards. This new literature amends current fair value measurement and disclosure guidance to include increased transparency around valuation inputs and investment categorization. The guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company does not believe the adoption of the authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 will have an impact on its consolidated financial statements.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. While the Company believes these estimates are reasonable and consistent, they are by their very nature, estimates of amounts that will depend on future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. The Company’s Audit Committee periodically reviews the Company’s significant accounting policies. The Company’s critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following:

•Revenue recognition and allowances for doubtful accounts;

45

Index

•Pension expense;

•Accruals for self insurance reserves; and

•Income taxes

Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts

Revenue is recognized for services rendered when the testing process is complete and test results are reported to the ordering physician. The Company’s sales are generally billed to three types of payers – clients, patients and third parties such as managed care companies, Medicare and Medicaid. For clients, sales are recorded on a fee-for-service basis at the Company’s client list price, less any negotiated discount. Patient sales are recorded at the Company’s patient fee schedule, net of any discounts negotiated with physicians on behalf of their patients. The Company bills third-party payers in two ways – fee-for-service and capitated agreements. Fee-for-service third-party payers are billed at the Company's patient fee schedule amount, and third-party revenue is recorded net of contractual discounts. These discounts are recorded at the transaction level at the time of sale based on a fee schedule that is maintained for each third-party payer. The majority of the Company’s third-party sales are recorded using an actual or contracted fee schedule at the time of sale. For the remaining third-party sales, estimated fee schedules are maintained for each payer. Adjustments to the estimated payment amounts are recorded at the time of final collection and settlement of each transaction as an adjustment to revenue. These adjustments are not material to the Company’s results of operations in any period presented. The Company periodically adjusts these estimated fee schedules based upon historical payment trends. Under capitated agreements with managed care companies, the Company recognizes revenue based on a negotiated monthly contractual rate for each member of the managed care plan regardless of the number or cost of services performed.

The Company has a formal process to estimate and review the collectibility of its receivables based on the period of time they have been outstanding. Bad debt expense is recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales considered necessary to maintain the allowance for doubtful accounts at an appropriate level. The Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for doubtful accounts involves judgment, and considers such factors as the age of the underlying receivables, historical and projected collection experience, and other external factors that could affect the collectibility of its receivables. Accounts are written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the Company’s write-off policy (e.g., when they are deemed to be uncollectible). In the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance, accounts are progressively reserved based on the historical timing of cash collections relative to their respective aging categories within the Company’s receivables. These collection and reserve processes, along with the close monitoring of the billing process, help reduce the risks of material revisions to reserve estimates resulting from adverse changes in collection or reimbursement experience. The following table presents the percentage of the Company’s net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category at December 31, 2011 and 2010:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The above table excludes the percentage of net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category for the Ontario, Canada joint venture, Clearstone and Orchid. The Company believes that including the agings for these foreign operations would not be representative of the majority of the accounts receivable by aging category for the Company.

Pension Expense

In October 2009, the Company received approval from its Board of Directors to freeze any additional service-based credits for any years of service after December 31, 2009 on the Company Plan and the PEP. Both plans have been closed to new participants. Employees participating in the Company Plan and the PEP no longer earn service-based credits, but continue to earn interest credits. In addition, effective January 1, 2010, all employees eligible for the defined contribution retirement plan (the “401K Plan”) receive a minimum 3% non-elective contribution (“NEC”) concurrent with each payroll period. The 401K Plan also permits 

46

Index

discretionary contributions by the Company of 1% to 3% of pay for eligible employees based on service.

The Company Plan covers substantially all employees hired prior to December 31, 2009. The benefits to be paid under the Company Plan are based on years of credited service through December 31, 2009, interest credits and average compensation. The Company also has the PEP which covers its senior management group. Prior to 2010, the PEP provided for the payment of the difference, if any, between the amount of any maximum limitation on annual benefit payments under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the annual benefit that would be payable under the Company Plan but for such limitation.

The Company's net pension cost is developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis at the beginning of each year. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. The key assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit retirement plans were a 4.0% discount rate and a 7.25% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets as of December 31, 2011.

Discount Rate

The Company evaluates several approaches toward setting the discount rate assumption that is used to value the benefit obligations of its retirement plans. At year-end, priority was given to use of the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve and anticipated cash outflows of each retirement plan were discounted with the spot yields from the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve. A single-effective discount rate assumption was then determined for each retirement plan based on this analysis. A one percentage point decrease or increase in the discount rate would have resulted in a respective increase or decrease in 2011 retirement plan expense of $1.8.

Return on Plan Assets

In establishing its expected return on plan assets assumption, the Company reviews its asset allocation and develops return assumptions based on different asset classes adjusting for plan operating expenses. Actual asset over/under performance compared to expected returns will respectively decrease/increase unrecognized loss. The change in the unrecognized loss will change amortization cost in upcoming periods. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have resulted in a corresponding change in 2011 pension expense of $2.5.

Net pension cost for 2011 was $8.6 as compared with $9.6 in 2010 and $36.6 in 2009 (including the impact of the $2.8 non-recurring net curtailment charge). The decrease in pension expense in 2011 and 2010 was due to the changes to the Company Plan and PEP. Projected pension expense for the Company Plan and the PEP is expected to increase from $8.6 in 2011 to $12.2 in 2012.

Further information on the Company’s defined benefit retirement plan is provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

Accruals for Self-insurance Reserves

Accruals for self-insurance reserves (including workers’ compensation, auto and employee medical) are determined based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical payment trends and claims history, actuarial assumptions and current and estimated future economic conditions. These estimated liabilities are not discounted.

 The Company is self-insured (up to certain limits) for professional liability claims arising in the normal course of business, generally related to the testing and reporting of laboratory test results. The Company maintains excess insurance which limits the Company’s maximum exposure on individual claims. The Company estimates a liability that represents the ultimate exposure for aggregate losses below those limits. The liability is discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors for known and incurred but not reported claims based on an actuarial assessment of the accrual driven by frequency and amount of claims.

If actual trends differ from these estimates, the financial results could be impacted. Historical trends have not differed materially from these estimates.

 Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability method. Under this method deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and 

47

Index

liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company does not recognize a tax benefit, unless the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, the Company recognizes a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that the Company believes is greater than 50% likely to be realized. The Company records interest and penalties in income tax expense.

48

Index

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The Company has made in this report, and from time to time may otherwise make in its public filings, press releases and discussions by Company management, forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “seeks”, “approximately”, “intends”, “plans”, “estimates”, or “anticipates” or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and in the Company’s other public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, including:

1.changes in federal, state, local and third party payer regulations or policies or other future reforms in the health care system (or in the interpretation of current regulations), new insurance or payment systems, including state or regional insurance cooperatives, new public insurance programs or a single-payer system, affecting governmental and third-party coverage or reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing;

2. adverse results from investigations or audits of clinical laboratories by the government, which may include significant monetary damages, refunds and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs; 

3.loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or those of Medicare, Medicaid, the False Claims Act or other federal, state or local agencies;

4.failure to comply with the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, which may result in penalties and loss of licensure;

5.failure to comply with HIPAA, including changes to federal and state privacy and security obligations and changes to HIPAA, including those changes included within HITECH and any subsequent amendments, which could result in increased costs, denial of claims and/or significant penalties;

6.failure to maintain the security of business information or systems could damage the Company’s reputation, cause it to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation;

7.failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to comply with Version 5010 Transactions by the CMS delayed enforcement date of March 31, 2012 or to comply with the ICD-10-CM Code Set by the compliance date to be determined by the Department of Health and Human Services which will be sometime after October 1, 2013, could negatively impact the Company's reimbursement and profitability;

8.increased competition, including competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry;

9.increased price competition, competitive bidding for laboratory tests and/or changes or reductions to fee schedules;

10.changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms or the impact of a shift to consumer-driven health plans;

11.failure to obtain and retain new customers and alliance partners, or a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers;

12.failure to retain or attract managed care business as a result of changes in business models, including new risk based or network approaches, or other changes in strategy or business models by managed care companies;

13.failure to effectively integrate and/or manage newly acquired businesses, including Genzyme Genetics, and the cost related to such integrations;

14.adverse results in litigation matters;

15.inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;

16.failure to maintain the Company’s days sales outstanding and/or bad debt expense levels;

17.decrease in the Company’s credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s;

18.discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products;

19.failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved technologies, or if customers use new technologies to perform 

49

Index

their own tests;

20.inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate coverage or reimbursement for such tests, which could result in impairment in the value of certain capitalized licensing costs;

21.changes in government regulations or policies, including regulations and policies of the Food and Drug Administration, affecting the approval, availability of, and the selling and marketing of diagnostic tests;

22.inability to obtain and maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights for protection of the Company’s products and services and successfully enforce the Company’s proprietary rights;

23.the scope, validity and enforceability of patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties which might have an impact on the Company’s ability to develop, perform, or market the Company’s tests or operate its business;

24.failure in the Company’s information technology systems resulting in an increase in testing turnaround time or billing processes or the failure to meet future regulatory or customer information technology, data security and connectivity requirements;

25.failure of the Company’s financial information systems resulting in failure to meet required financial reporting deadlines;

26.failure of the Company's disaster recovery plans to provide adequate protection against the interruption of business and/or to permit the recovery of business operations;

27.business interruption or other impact on the business due to adverse weather (including hurricanes), fires and/or other natural disasters, labor unrest, terrorism or other criminal acts, and/or widespread outbreak of influenza or other pandemic illness;

28.liabilities that result from the inability to comply with corporate governance requirements;

29.significant deterioration in the economy or financial markets which could negatively impact the Company’s testing volumes, cash collections and the availability of credit for general liquidity or other financing needs;

30.changes in reimbursement by foreign governments and foreign currency fluctuations; and

31.expenses and risks associated with international operations, including compliance with laws and regulations that differ from the United States, and economic, political, legal and other operational risks associated with foreign markets.

Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK