ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.

The following “risk factors” identify what the Company believes to be all of the risks that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial and/or operational performance. These risk factors should be considered and evaluated together with information incorporated by reference or otherwise included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently believes are immaterial also may impair the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The Company may be subject to risks arising from uncertainty in worldwide economic conditions.

Uncertainty regarding global economic conditions and the rate of economic recovery may have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, and on the general economic activity in many of the industries and markets in which the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers operate. Among the economic factors which may have such an effect are manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. These factors may, among other things, negatively impact the level of purchases, capital expenditures and creditworthiness of the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, and, therefore, the Company’s revenues, operating profits, margins and order rates.

The Company has remained focused on maintaining its financial strength by adjusting its cost structure to reflect changing demand levels, maintaining a strong balance sheet and managing its cash. The Company cannot predict changes in worldwide economic conditions, as such conditions are highly volatile and beyond the Company’s control. If these conditions deteriorate, however, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

The Company may be subject to risks relating to its information technology systems.

The Company relies extensively on information technology systems to manage and operate its business. If these systems 

- 8 -

are damaged or cease to function properly and the Company suffers any resulting interruption in its ability to manage and operate its business, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

The Company may be subject to product liability risks.

The Company’s businesses expose it to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of its products and the products of third-party vendors that the Company uses or resells. Significant product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Although the Company currently maintains what it believes to be suitable and adequate product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its insurance on acceptable terms or that its insurance will provide adequate protection against all potential liabilities.

The Company may be subject to risks arising from legal and regulatory proceedings.

From time to time, the Company is subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of such proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict their ultimate outcome, including the outcome of any related appeals. An unfavorable outcome could materially adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

The Company may be subject to risks relating to organizational changes.

The Company regularly executes organizational changes such as acquisitions, divestitures and realignments to support its growth and cost management strategies. The Company also commits significant resources to identify, develop and retain key employees to ensure uninterrupted leadership and direction. If the Company is unable to successfully manage these and other organizational changes, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

The Company may be subject to risks relating to changes in the demand for and supply of its products.

Demand for and supply of the Company’s products may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which the Company cannot predict or control. Such factors include:

•changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition, and changes in contract cost and revenue estimates for new development programs;

•changes in product mix;

•changes in the market acceptance of the Company’s products;

•increased competition in the markets the Company serves;

•declines in the general level of industrial production; and

•declines in the availability, or increases in the prices, of raw materials.

If any of these factors occur, the demand for and supply of the Company’s products could suffer, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.

The Company may be subject to risks arising from price and supply fluctuations in raw materials used in the Company’s production processes and by its suppliers of component parts.

The Company’s supply of raw materials for its businesses could be interrupted for a variety of reasons, including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant increases could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and profit margins. Although the Company generally attempts to manage these fluctuations by, among other things, passing along increased raw material prices to its customers in the form of price increases, there may be a time delay between the increased raw material prices and the Company’s ability to increase the price of its products, or the Company may be unable to increase the prices of its products due to pricing pressure, contract terms or other factors.

The Company’s suppliers of component parts may significantly and quickly increase their prices in response to increases in costs of raw materials that they use to manufacture the component parts. As a result, the Company may not be able to increase its prices commensurately with its increased costs. Consequently, the Company’s results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

- 9 -

The Company may be subject to risks relating to acquisitions.

The Company expects to continue its strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products and services that it believes will enhance its operations and profitability. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to find suitable businesses to purchase or that it will be able to acquire such businesses on acceptable terms. In addition, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to avoid acquiring or assuming unexpected liabilities, that the Company will be able to integrate successfully any businesses that it purchases into its existing business or that any acquired businesses will be profitable. The successful integration of new businesses depends on the Company’s ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. If the Company is unable to avoid these risks, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

The Company may be subject to risks arising from changes in the competitive environment in which it operates.

The Company’s operations are subject to competition from a wide variety of global, regional and local competitors, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations by creating downward pricing pressure and/or a decline in the Company’s margins or market shares. To compete successfully, the Company’s Industrial Segment and Climate & Industrial Controls Segment must excel in terms of product quality and innovation, customer service, manufacturing and distribution capability and price competitiveness and its Aerospace Segment must excel on the basis of technological and engineering capability, quality, delivery and service, and price competitiveness.

The Company may be subject to risks relating to its non-U.S. operations.

The Company’s net sales derived from customers outside the United States were approximately 45% in fiscal 2012, 46% in fiscal 2011 and 45% in fiscal 2010. In addition, many of the Company’s manufacturing operations and suppliers are located outside the United States. The Company expects net sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of its total net sales. The Company’s non-U.S. operations are subject to risks in addition to those facing its domestic operations, including:

•fluctuations in currency exchange rates;

•limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings;

•transportation delays and interruptions;

•political, social and economic instability and disruptions;

•government embargoes or trade restrictions;

•the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;

•import and export controls;

•labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments;

•the potential for nationalization of enterprises;

•difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;

•limitations on the Company’s ability to enforce legal rights and remedies;

•potentially adverse tax consequences; and

•difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely basis.

If the Company is unable to successfully manage the risks associated with expanding its global business or adequately manage operational fluctuations internationally, the risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition.

The Company may be subject to risks relating to changes in its tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities.

The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The Company’s effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets or changes in tax laws. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to ongoing audits 

- 10 -

by United States federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to the Company’s tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.

The Company may be subject to risks relating to the development of new products and technologies.

The markets the Company operates in are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and frequent introductions of new products and services. The Company’s ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect its competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products and services or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may significantly reduce future revenues and materially adversely affect the Company’s competitive position.

The Company may be subject to risks relating to the preservation of its intellectual property.

Protecting the Company’s intellectual property is critical to its innovation efforts. The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to its products and has exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by others. The Company’s intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or the Company may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. In addition, the global nature of the Company’s business could present increased risks that the Company’s intellectual property will be subject to infringement or other unauthorized use outside of the United States. In such cases, the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property rights by legal recourse or otherwise may be limited, particularly in countries where laws or enforcement practices are undeveloped or do not recognize or protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property rights or inability to preserve existing intellectual property rights could adversely impact the Company’s competitive position and results of operations.

The Company may be subject to risks arising from the impact of environmental regulations.

The Company’s operations necessitate the use and handling of hazardous materials and, as a result, it is subject to various United States federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-U.S. laws, designed to protect the environment and to regulate the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws impose penalties, fines and other sanctions for non-compliance and liability for response costs, property damages and personal injury resulting from past and current spills, disposals or other releases of, or the exposure to, hazardous materials. Among other laws, the Company is subject to the United States federal “Superfund” law, under which it has been designated as a “potentially responsible party” and may be liable for clean-up costs associated with various waste sites, some of which are on the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund priority list. The Company could incur substantial costs as a result of non-compliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws, including the Superfund law.

In addition, increased worldwide focus on climate change issues has led to recent legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions, including regulation of such emissions through a “cap-and-trade” system globally. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and other climate changes concerns could subject the Company to additional costs and restrictions, including increased energy and raw material costs. Until definitive regulations are adopted, the Company is not able to predict how such regulations would affect the Company’s business, operations or financial results.

The Company may be subject to more stringent environmental laws in the future. If more stringent environmental laws are enacted in the future, these laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.

The Company may be subject to risks relating to increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits.

The funding requirements and the amount of expenses recorded for the Company’s defined benefit pension plans are dependent on changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets, which are dependent on actual plan asset returns. Significant changes in market interest rates and decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets would increase funding requirements and expenses and may adversely impact the Company’s future results of operations.

The Company absorbs a portion of healthcare costs for its employees. If healthcare costs rise significantly and the Company continues to absorb the majority of these costs, these increasing costs may adversely impact the Company's future results of operations.

The Company may be subject to risks arising from regulations applicable to companies doing business with the United States government.

- 11 -

In addition to the risks identified herein, doing business with the United States government subjects the Company to unusual risks, including dependence on the level of government spending and compliance with and changes in governmental procurement regulations. Agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification, either at the convenience of the government or for the Company’s failure to perform under the applicable contract. The Company is subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. If the Company were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.

ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 

ITEM 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant.

The Company’s Executive Officers as of August 15, 2012 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Officers of the Company are elected by the Board of Directors to serve for a term of one year or until their respective successors are elected, except in the case of death, resignation or removal. Messrs. Washkewicz, Bond, Cullman, Dedinsky, Eline, Greco, Healy, Hoelting, Machado, Maxwell, and Piraino and Ms. Huggins have served in the executive capacities indicated above opposite their respective names during each of the past five years.

Mr. Marten has been Executive Vice President – Finance & Administration and Chief Financial Officer since November 2010. He was Vice President and Controller from August 2008 to December 2010 and Assistant Controller from July 2007 to August 2008.

Mr. Banks has been an Executive Vice President since August 2008 and has been an Operating Officer since November 

- 12 -

2006. He was a Senior Vice President from November 2006 to August 2008. He is also a Director of Nordson Corporation.

Mr. Barker has been an Executive Vice President since August 2008 and has been an Operating Officer since November 2006. He was President of the Aerospace Group from March 2003 to July 2012 and a Senior Vice President from November 2006 to August 2008.

Mr. Serbin has been Executive Vice President – Human Resources since January 2011. He was Vice President – Human Resources from May 2005 to January 2011.

Mr. Williams has been an Executive Vice President since August 2008 and has been an Operating Officer since November 2006. He was a Senior Vice President from November 2006 to August 2008. He is also a Director of Chart Industries, Inc.

Mr. Chung has been President of the Automation Group since July 2012 and has been a Vice President since March 2008. He was President of the Asia Pacific Group from March 2008 to July 2012 and Vice President – Operations of the Hydraulics Group in Asia from January 2005 to March 2008.

Mr. Keller has been President of the Asia-Pacific Group since July 2012 and has been a Vice President since August 2009. He was President of the Seal Group from August 2009 to July 2012 and Vice President of Operations of the Seal Group from July 2005 to August 2009.

Mr. Popoff has been a Vice President and President of the Filtration Group since February 2008. He was Vice President – Operations of the Filtration Group from April 2006 to February 2008.

Mr. Ross has been a Vice President and President of the Seal Group since July 2012. He was Vice President of Operations of the Hydraulics Group from July 2011 to July 2012 and General Manager Hydraulic Valve Division from June 2007 to July 2011.

Mr. Saulnier has been a Vice President and President of the Europe, Middle East and Africa Group since September 2008. He was President of Sales Companies – Europe, Middle East and Africa from January 2008 to September 2008 and Vice President – Operations of Sales Companies South from July 2001 to January 2008.

Mr. Sherrard has been President of the Aerospace Group since July 2012 and has been a Vice President since November 2003. He was President of the Automation Group from March 2005 to July 2012.

Ms. Suever has been Vice President and Controller since December 2010. She was Vice President and Controller of the Climate & Industrial Controls Group from November 2008 to December 2010 and Assistant Treasurer from July 2007 to November 2008.

ITEM 2. Properties. The Company’s corporate headquarters is located in Cleveland, Ohio, and, at June 30, 2012, the Company had 312 manufacturing plants and 264 distribution centers and sales and administrative offices throughout the world, none of which were individually material to its operations. The facilities are situated in 38 states within the United States and in 47 other countries. The Company owns the majority of its manufacturing plants and distribution centers, and its leased properties primarily consist of sales and administrative offices. The number of facilities used by each of the Company’s operating segments is summarized by type and geographic location in the tables below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

- 13 -

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Several facilities are shared among each of the Company’s operating segments. To avoid double counting, each shared facility is counted once, primarily in the Industrial Segment.

The Company believes that its properties have been adequately maintained, are in good condition generally and are suitable and adequate for its business as presently conducted. The extent to which the Company uses its properties varies by property and from time to time. The Company believes that its restructuring efforts have brought capacity levels closer to present and anticipated needs. Most of the Company’s manufacturing facilities remain capable of handling additional volume increases.

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings. Parker ITR S.r.l. (Parker ITR), a subsidiary acquired on January 31, 2002, has been the subject of a number of lawsuits and regulatory investigations. The lawsuits and investigations relate to allegations that, for a period of up to 21 years, the Parker ITR business unit that manufactures and sells marine hose, typically used in oil transfer, conspired with competitors in unreasonable restraint of trade to artificially raise, fix, maintain or stabilize prices, rig bids and allocate markets and customers for marine oil and gas hose in the United States and in other jurisdictions. Parker ITR and the Company have cooperated with all of the regulatory authorities investigating the activities of the Parker ITR business unit that manufactures and sells marine hose and continue to cooperate with the investigations that remain ongoing. Several of the investigations and all but one of the lawsuits have concluded. The following investigations and lawsuit remain pending.

Brazilian competition authorities commenced their investigations on November 14, 2007. Parker ITR filed a procedural defense in January 2008. The Brazilian authorities appear to be investigating the period from 1999 through May 2007. In June 2011, the Brazilian competition authorities issued a report and Parker ITR filed a response to that report. The potential outcome of the investigation in Brazil is uncertain and will depend on the resolution of numerous issues not known at this stage of the investigation.

On May 15, 2007, the European Commission issued its initial Request for Information to the Company and Parker ITR. On January 28, 2009, the European Commission announced the results of its investigation of the alleged cartel activities. As part of its decision, the European Commission found that Parker ITR infringed Article 81 of the European Commission treaty from April 1986 to May 2, 2007 and fined Parker ITR 25.61 million euros. The European Commission also determined that the Company was jointly and severally responsible for 8.32 million euros of the total fine which related to the period from January 2002, when the Company acquired Parker ITR, to May 2, 2007, when the cartel activities ceased. Parker ITR and the Company filed an appeal to the Court of First Instance of the European Communities on April 10, 2009.

A lawsuit was filed against the Company and Parker ITR on May 25, 2010 under the False Claims Act in the Central District of California: The United States of America ex rel. Douglas Farrow v. Trelleborg, AB et al. The United States declined to intervene against the Company or Parker ITR in the case. Plaintiff generally seeks treble damages, penalties for each false claim and attorneys' fees. The court dismissed the complaint with prejudice as to the Company, but it remains pending against Parker ITR.

ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable.