Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Business Overview 

 Foot Locker, Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates in two reportable segments — Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers. The Athletic Stores segment is one of the largest athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the world, whose formats include Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Champs Sports, and Footaction. The Direct-to-Customers segment reflects CCS and Footlocker.com, Inc., which sells, through its affiliates, including Eastbay, Inc., to customers through catalogs and Internet websites. 

 The Foot Locker brand is one of the most widely recognized names in the market segments in which the Company operates, epitomizing high quality for the active lifestyle customer. This brand equity has aided the Company’s ability to successfully develop and increase its portfolio of complementary retail store formats, specifically Lady Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker, as well as Footlocker.com, Inc., its direct-to-customers business. Through various marketing channels, including television campaigns and sponsorships of various sporting events, Foot Locker, Inc. reinforces its image with a consistent message; namely, that it is the destination store for athletic footwear and apparel with a wide selection of merchandise in a full-service environment. 

8 

Athletic Stores 

 The Company operates 3,641 stores in the Athletic Stores segment. The following is a brief description of the Athletic Stores segment’s operating businesses: 

 Foot Locker — Foot Locker is a leading athletic footwear and apparel retailer. Its stores offer the latest in athletic-inspired performance products, manufactured primarily by the leading athletic brands. Foot Locker offers products for a wide variety of activities including basketball, running, and training. Its 1,950 stores are located in 21 countries including 1,218 in the United States, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, 130 in Canada, 512 in Europe and a combined 90 in Australia and New Zealand. The domestic stores have an average of 2,400 selling square feet and the international stores have an average of 1,400 selling square feet. 

 Champs Sports — Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the United States. Its product categories include athletic footwear, apparel and accessories, and a focused assortment of equipment. This combination allows Champs Sports to differentiate itself from other mall-based stores by presenting complete product assortments in a select number of sporting activities. Its 565 stores are located throughout the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,600 selling square feet. 

 Footaction — Footaction is a national athletic footwear and apparel retailer. The primary customers are young urban males that seek street-inspired fashion styles. Its 335 stores are located throughout the United States and Puerto Rico and focus on marquee allocated footwear and branded apparel. The Footaction stores have an average of 2,900 selling square feet. 

 Lady Foot Locker — Lady Foot Locker is a leading U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for women. Its stores carry major athletic footwear and apparel brands, as well as casual wear and an assortment of proprietary merchandise designed for a variety of activities, including running, basketball, walking, and fitness. Its 486 stores are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, and have an average of 1,300 selling square feet. 

 Kids Foot Locker — Kids Foot Locker is a national children’s athletic retailer that offers the largest selection of brand-name athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for children. Its stores feature an environment geared to appeal to both parents and children. Its 305 stores are located in the United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and have an average of 1,400 selling square feet. 

Store Profile [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Direct-to-Customers 

 Footlocker.com — Footlocker.com, Inc., sells, through its affiliates, directly to customers through catalogs and its Internet websites. Eastbay, Inc., one of its affiliates, is one of the largest direct marketers of athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, team licensed and private-label merchandise in the United States and provides the Company’s eight full-service e-commerce sites access to an integrated fulfillment and distribution system. The Company has a marketing agreement with the U.S. Olympic Committee (USOC) providing the Company with the exclusive rights to sell USOC licensed products through catalogs and via an e-commerce site. 

9 

 The Company has an agreement with ESPN for ESPN Shop — an ESPN-branded direct mail catalog and e-commerce site linked to www.ESPNshop.com, where consumers can purchase athletic footwear, apparel and equipment, which will be managed by Footlocker.com. Both the catalog and the e-commerce site feature a variety of ESPN-branded and non-ESPN-branded athletically inspired merchandise. 

 On November 5, 2008, the Company purchased CCS from dELiA*s, Inc. CCS is a direct marketer of skateboard and snowboard equipment, apparel, footwear, and accessories primarily targeting teenage boys. CCS operates through catalogs and its Internet website. 

Franchise Operations 

 In March of 2006, the Company entered into a ten-year area development agreement with the Alshaya Trading Co. W.L.L., in which the Company agreed to enter into separate license agreements for the operation of Foot Locker stores, subject to certain restrictions, located within the Middle East. Additionally, in March 2007, the Company entered into a ten-year agreement with another third party for the exclusive right to open and operate Foot Locker stores in the Republic of Korea. A total of 17 franchised stores were operational at January 31, 2009. Revenue from the franchised stores was not significant for the any of the periods presented. These stores are not included in the Company’s operating store count above. 

2007 Results 

 The 2007 results as presented in this Annual Report have been corrected to reflect an immaterial revision to its fourth quarter and full year 2007 results in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin 108, “Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements.” The income tax benefit of $99 million related to continuing operations, as reported for the full year of 2007 within the Form 10-K, was overstated by $6 million. This overstatement comprises primarily five items. First, the Company understated its income taxes payable by $9 million due to incorrectly accounting for foreign dividend withholding taxes. Second, the Company noted that certain foreign currency fluctuations related to the tax assets and liabilities, totaling $5 million, should have been reflected as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment within accumulated other comprehensive loss. The Company had incorrectly reflected these foreign exchange movements within the income tax provision, thereby increasing the income tax provision erroneously. Third, the Company overstated the value of a portion of its Canadian deferred tax assets by $3 million as a result of using incorrect tax rates. Fourth, the Company understated a deferred tax liability of $2 million related to goodwill. Finally, various state and international depreciation corrections totaling $3 million were overstated in the income tax provision. 

Overview of Consolidated Results 

 2008 was a very challenging year for the overall retail industry. The severe recession, which began in the latter part of 2007 in the United States, worsened and spread to other countries throughout the year. This past year has been defined by historically low consumer confidence, rising unemployment levels, and declining consumer spending. We had anticipated that consumer spending would continue to slow during 2008 and we therefore planned our business strategy, accordingly. In 2007, we initiated a program to close underperforming stores to improve the overall profitability of our store fleet. Another significant area of focus was inventory management. We began the year with inventory levels in line with anticipated sales. This improved inventory position allowed us to reduce promotional markdowns and improve our gross margin rate in 2008. 

 The Company reported a net loss from continuing operations of $79 million or $0.52 per share for the year ended January 31, 2009, which compares with $43 million or $0.28 per share for the year ended February 2, 2008. Several factors affect the comparability of these two years, specifically:  The overall decline in current business trends, as well as lower projected earnings, resulted in our recognizing non-cash charges for goodwill and other intangible assets impairments in 2008 totaling $169 million, or $123 million after-tax.

  In addition to the above impairment charges, during 2008 the following charges were recorded:  $15 million impairment charge, with no tax benefit, related to the write-off of a note due from the purchasers of the Northern Group, a previously discontinued business,  

10 

  $3 million charge, with no tax benefit, related to an other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in a money-market fund,

  Impairment of store long-lived assets related to the U.S. retail divisions totaling $67 million or $41 million, after-tax, and

  Exit costs related to the store closing program, primarily representing lease termination costs, totaling $5 million, or $3 million after-tax.  Included in the results for 2007 are impairment charges and store closing expenses totaling $128 million, or $81 million after-tax. In addition, the 2007 results include a $62 million benefit related to a Canadian income tax valuation adjustment.

  Excluding the impairment charges, store closing costs, and the income tax valuation adjustments for both 2008 and 2007, net income from continuing operations would have been $106 million in 2008 as compared with $62 million in 2007. This primarily reflects a $40 million improvement in gross margin as the Company was significantly less promotional during 2008. 

 The following table provides a reconciliation of reported GAAP results to income from continuing operations excluding impairment charges, store closing program costs, and the income tax valuation adjustment in 2007, which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. The Company believes this information is a useful measure to investors because it allows for a more direct comparison of the Company’s performance for the year with the Company’s performance in prior periods. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Key highlights of the year:  Acquired CCS, a leading direct marketer of skateboard equipment, apparel, footwear and accessories for $106 million. This acquisition provides us with an opportunity to expand our product offerings while complementing our current offerings.

  Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of January 31, 2009 were $408 million. Cash flow provided by operations was $383 million, an improvement of $100 million as compared with the prior year. 

11 

  Merchandise inventories at January 31, 2009 were $1,120 million, which represents a reduction of $161 million. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations and the additional inventory associated with our recent acquisition, inventories declined by approximately 10 percent.

  Repaid the remaining $88 million of our outstanding balance on the 5-year term loan.

  Purchased and retired $6 million of the $200 million 8.50 percent debentures payable in 2022, bringing the outstanding amount to $123 million as of January 31, 2009.

  Dividends totaling $93 million were declared and paid. 

 Looking ahead to 2009, we are focused on ensuring our balance sheet and cash position remain strong; continuing to manage our cost structure and inventory levels aggressively; strengthening and enhancing our brands to ensure they are relevant; and positioning our Company for long-term success. 

 The following table represents a summary of sales and operating results, reconciled to (loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________

 (1)    The year ended January 31, 2009 includes a $241 million charge representing long-lived store asset impairment, goodwill and other intangibles impairment and store closing costs related to the Company’s U.S. operations. The year ended February 2, 2008 includes a $128 million charge representing impairment and store closing costs related to the Company’s U.S. operations. The year ended February 3, 2007 included a $17 million non-cash impairment charge related to the Company’s European operations. 

 (2)    During the first quarter of 2007, the Company launched a new family footwear concept, Footquarters. The concept’s results did not meet the Company’s expectations and, therefore, the Company decided not to invest further in this business. These stores were converted to the Company’s other formats. Included in the operating loss of $6 million was approximately $2 million of costs associated with the removal of signage and the write-off of unusable fixtures. 

 (3)   During 2007, the Company adjusted its 1993 Repositioning and 1991 Restructuring reserve by $2 million primarily due to favorable lease terminations. During 2006, the Company recorded a restructuring charge of $1 million, which represented a revision to the original estimate of the lease liability associated with the guarantee of The San Francisco Music Box Company distribution center. These amounts are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

Sales 

 All references to comparable-store sales for a given period relate to sales from stores that are open at the period-end, that have been open for more than one year, and exclude the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. Accordingly, stores opened and closed during the period are not included. Sales from the Direct-to-Customer segment, excluding CCS sales, are included in the calculation of comparable-store sales for all periods presented. Sales from acquired businesses that include the purchase of inventory are included in the computation of comparable-store sales after 15 months of operations. Accordingly, CCS sales have been excluded in the computation of comparable-store sales. 

12 

 Sales decreased to $5,237 million, or by 3.7 percent as compared with 2007. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales declined 4.0 percent as compared with 2007. Comparable-store sales decreased by 3.2 percent. 

 Sales of $5,437 million in 2007 decreased by 5.4 percent from sales of $5,750 million in 2006. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales declined 7.6 percent as compared with 2006. Comparable-store sales decreased by 6.3 percent. 

Gross Margin 

 Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 27.9 percent in 2008 increasing 180 basis points as compared with 2007. The increase in the gross margin represented an increase of 230 basis points in the merchandise margin rate reflecting lower markdowns. Lower sales in 2008 resulted in the occupancy rate increasing by 50 basis points, as a percentage of sales. The effect of reduced vendor allowances was not significant as compared with 2007. 

 Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 26.1 percent in 2007 declining 410 basis points as compared with 2006. Gross margin, as a percentage of sales, was negatively affected primarily by incremental markdowns, of 180 basis points, taken to liquidate slow-moving and excess inventory and the effect of reduced vendor allowances, which negatively affected gross margin by approximately 60 basis points, as compared with 2006. Lower sales in 2007 resulted in the occupancy rate increasing by 160 basis points, as a percentage of sales. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

 Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses decreased by $2 million to $1,174 million in 2008, or by 0.2 percent, as compared with 2007. SG&A as a percentage of sales increased to 22.4 percent as compared with 21.6 percent in 2007. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of sales is due to the decline in sales. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations in 2008, SG&A decreased by $9 million. This decrease reflects lower divisional expenses reflecting fewer stores, offset, in part, by an increase in corporate expenses primarily related to increased incentive compensation. 

  SG&A expenses increased by $13 million to $1,176 million in 2007, or by 1.1 percent, as compared with 2006. SG&A as a percentage of sales increased to 21.6 percent as compared with 20.2 percent in 2006. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of sales is due to the decline in sales. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations and the 53rd week in 2006, SG&A decreased by $2 million. This decrease primarily reflected savings associated with operating fewer stores, as well as controlling variable expenses as compared with the prior-year period. 

Corporate Expense 

 Corporate expense consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses as well as depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s corporate headquarters, centrally managed departments, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and other items. 

 Corporate expense increased by $28 million to $87 million in 2008 as compared with 2007. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense amounted to $13 million in 2008 and $14 million in 2007. Corporate expense for 2008 includes a $3 million other-than-temporary impairment charge related to a short-term investment and a $15 million impairment charge related to the Northern Group note receivable. During the first quarter of 2008, the principal owners of the Northern Group requested an extension on the repayment of the note, which was scheduled to be repaid on September 28, 2008. The Company determined, based on the Northern Group’s current financial condition and projected performance, that repayment of the note pursuant to the original terms of the purchase agreement was not likely. Excluding these charges, corporate expense increased by $10 million, which is primarily related to increased incentive compensation. 

 Corporate expense decreased by $9 million to $59 million in 2007 as compared with 2006. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense amounted to $14 million in 2007 and $22 million in 2006, the decrease reflecting certain software assets, which were fully depreciated. Excluding the change in corporate expense related to depreciation and amortization, corporate expense declined primarily due to reduced incentive compensation expense. 

13 

Depreciation and Amortization 

 Depreciation and amortization of $130 million decreased by 21.7 percent in 2008 from $166 million in 2007. This decrease primarily reflects the effect of the 2007 impairment charges offset, in part, by increased depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s capital spending. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations was not significant. Due to the 2008 impairment charges, the Company expects that its 2009 depreciation and amortization expense will be approximately $15 million lower than 2008. 

 Depreciation and amortization of $166 million decreased by 5.1 percent in 2007 from $175 million in 2006. This decrease primarily reflects reduced software amortization of $8 million as assets became fully depreciated and reduced depreciation and amortization associated with the third quarter 2007 impairment charge. These decreases were offset, in part, by the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, which increased depreciation and amortization expense by $3 million, and increased depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s capital spending. 

Interest Expense, Net [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Interest expense of $16 million decreased by 23.8 percent in 2008 compared to $21 million in 2007. The reduction in interest expense primarily relates to the repayment of the term loan in May 2008 and the purchases and retirements of $6 million and $5 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, of the Company’s 8.50 percent debentures. The Company did not have any short-term borrowings for any of the periods presented. Interest rate swap agreements reduced interest expense in 2008 by approximately $2 million, while the cross currency swaps increased interest expense by $3 million. Interest income of $11 million declined from $20 million in 2007. Interest income is generated through the investment of cash equivalents and short-term investments. The decline in interest income reflects the lower interest income on cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, which totaled $10 million in 2008 and $16 million in 2007. Additionally, the Company did not record accretion income related to the Northern Group note, which in the prior year totaled $2 million. 

 Interest expense of $21 million decreased by 8.7 percent in 2007 as compared with $23 million in 2006. The reduction in interest expense primarily relates to the purchases and retirements of $5 million and $38 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, of the Company’s 8.50 percent debentures. Interest rate swap agreements did not significantly affect interest expense in 2007. Interest income of $20 million remained unchanged from 2006. Interest income related to cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was $16 million in 2007 and $14 million in 2006. Interest income on the Northern Group note amounted to $2 million in both 2007 and 2006. Income from the cross currency swaps totaled $1 million in 2007 as compared with $3 million in 2006. 

Other Income 

 Other income of $8 million in 2008 includes a net gain of $4 million, which is comprised of the changes in fair value, realized gains and premiums paid on foreign currency contracts. The Company uses these derivatives to mitigate the effect of fluctuating foreign exchange rates on the reporting of foreign currency denominated earnings. Additionally, 2008 includes a $3 million gain on lease terminations related to two lease interests in Europe. 

 In 2007, other income included a $1 million gain related to a final settlement with the Company’s insurance carriers of a claim related to a store damaged by a fire in 2006. Additionally, the Company sold two of its lease interests in Europe for a gain of $1 million. These gains were offset primarily by premiums paid for foreign currency option contracts. The 2006 amounts included a net gain of $4 million from the termination of two of the Company’s leases for approximately $5 million and insurance claims related to Hurricane Katrina that resulted in a gain of $8 million, which represented amounts in excess of losses. Also during 2006, the Company purchased and retired $38 million of long-term debt at a discount from face value of $2 million. 

14 

Income Taxes 

 The effective tax rate for 2008 was a benefit of 20.8 percent as compared with a benefit of 187.0 percent in the prior year. The effective income tax rate changed primarily due to the effect of goodwill impairment, a portion of which is not deductible for tax purposes, the prior year valuation allowance adjustment, and to a lesser extent, the mix of U.S. and international profits. 

 The effective tax rate for 2007 was a benefit of 187.0 percent as compared with expense of 36.9 percent in the prior year. The change in the rate is primarily due to the $62 million valuation allowance adjustment (net of deferred costs) relating to Canadian tax depreciation and tax loss carryforwards, the change in the mix of U.S. and international profits, and the impairment charges relating to the Company’s U.S. operations. 

Segment Information 

 The Company has seven reporting units, as defined under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. Although we have seven reporting units, they have been aggregated into two operating segments for segment reporting purposes, in accordance with SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.” 

 The Company evaluates performance based on several factors, the primary financial measure of which is division profit. Division (loss) profit reflects (loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes, corporate expense, non-operating income, and net interest expense. 

Athletic Stores 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2008 compared with 2007 

 Athletic Stores sales of $4,847 million decreased 4.4 percent in 2008, as compared with $5,071 million in 2007. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, sales from athletic store formats decreased by 4.8 percent in 2008. Comparable-store sales for the Athletic Stores segment declined 3.6 percent as compared with prior year. The decline in sales for the year ended January 31, 2009 was primarily related to the domestic operations as the result of a decline in mall traffic and consumer spending in general. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales in Europe decreased low single digits in 2008 as compared with 2007. The sales of low profile styles negatively affected the first three quarters of 2008. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008 sales of higher-priced marquee footwear and apparel increased, which more than offset the sales decline related to the low profile footwear styles. 

 Athletic Stores reported a loss of $59 million in 2008 as compared with a loss of $27 million in 2007 which was primarily attributable to the U.S. operations. Included in the results for 2008 and 2007 are impairment charges and store closing costs totaling $241 million and $128 million, respectively. Athletic Stores division loss for 2008 includes a $167 million goodwill impairment charge, a $67 million write-down of long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements for 868 stores at the Company’s U.S. store operations pursuant to SFAS No. 144, $5 million of exit costs related to the closure of underperforming stores comprising primarily lease terminations in accordance with SFAS No. 146, and $2 million in other intangible impairment charges related to its tradenames. The Company performs its annual impairment test as of the beginning of each year, however due to the macroeconomic conditions affecting retail and the significant decline in the Company’s common stock and market capitalization, plus a reasonable control premium, in relation to the book value, the Company determined that a triggering event had occurred and, therefore, performed an interim impairment test. The fair value of the four reporting units containing goodwill was determined under step 1 of the goodwill impairment test based on a weighting of a discounted cash flow analysis 

15 

using forward-looking projections of estimated future operating results and a guideline company methodology under the market approach. Based on this testing, the Company determined that the fair values, as determined under step 1 as described above, was less than the carrying values of the Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker and Footaction reporting unit and the Champs Sports reporting unit. Accordingly, the Company performed a step 2 analysis to determine the extent of the goodwill impairment and concluded that the goodwill of these two reporting units was fully impaired, resulting in a non-cash impairment charge of $167 million. There were no goodwill impairment charges in 2007 or 2006. Excluding the impairment charges and store exit costs from both 2008 and 2007, division profit would have increased to $182 million in 2008 from $101 million in 2007. This increase in division profit primarily related to the domestic divisions as a result of lower promotional markdowns and reduced depreciation and amortization expense. 

2007 compared with 2006 

 Athletic Stores sales of $5,071 million decreased 5.6 percent in 2007, as compared with $5,370 million in 2006. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, sales from athletic store formats decreased by 7.8 percent in 2007. The decline in sales for the year ended February 2, 2008 was primarily related to the domestic operations. Sales in the U.S. were negatively affected by a continuing weakening in consumer spending, unseasonable warmer weather, and a lack of clear fashion trend in athletic footwear and apparel. Internationally, comparable-store sales declined mid-single digits. In Europe, sales of low-profile footwear styles declined, while the sales trend of higher priced technical footwear was higher than the prior year. Comparable-store sales for the Athletic Stores segment decreased by 6.6 percent in 2007. 

 Athletic Stores reported a loss of $27 million in 2007 as compared with a profit of $405 million in 2006. The decrease in division profit was attributable to the U.S. operations. The decline in the U.S. operations was offset, in part, by increases in most international formats. Included in the Athletic Stores division results for 2007 are non-cash impairment charges of $117 million to write-down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements for 1,395 stores at the Company’s U.S. store operations pursuant to SFAS No. 144, consistent with the Company’s recoverability of long-lived assets policy. Additionally, in 2007, the Company identified unproductive stores for closure; accordingly, the Company evaluated the recoverability of long-lived assets considering the revised estimated future cash flows. The Company recorded an additional non-cash impairment charge of $7 million as a result of this analysis. Exit costs related to 33 stores that closed during 2007, comprising primarily lease termination costs of $4 million, were recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 146. 

Direct-to-Customers 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2008 compared with 2007 

 Direct-to-Customers sales increased 7.1 percent to $390 million in 2008, as compared with $364 million in 2007, reflecting a comparable-sales increase of 1.0 percent and additional sales from CCS, which was acquired during the fourth quarter of 2008. Internet sales increased by 12.2 percent to $322 million, as compared with 2007. Catalog sales decreased by 11.7 percent to $68 million in 2008 from $77 million in 2007. Management believes that the decrease in catalog sales, which was substantially offset by the increase in Internet sales, is a result of customers browsing and selecting products through its catalogs and then making their purchases via the Internet. 

 The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $43 million in 2008, as compared with $40 million in 2007. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, was 11.0 percent in 2008 and 2007. The increase in division profit reflects the accretive effect of the acquisition of CCS. 

2007 compared with 2006 

 Direct-to-Customers sales decreased 4.2 percent to $364 million in 2007, as compared with $380 million in 2006. Internet sales increased by 6.3 percent to $287 million, as compared with 2006. Catalog sales decreased by 30.0 percent to $77 million in 2007 from $110 million in 2006. Management believes that the decrease in catalog sales, which was  

16 

substantially offset by the increase in Internet sales, is a result of customers browsing and selecting products through its catalogs and then making their purchases via the Internet. Sales were negatively affected by reduced sales from third party arrangements, as well as weakened consumer spending for athletic footwear and apparel. 

 The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $40 million in 2007, as compared with $45 million in 2006. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, decreased to 11.0 percent in 2007 from 11.8 percent in 2006. The decline in division profit is a result of lower sales. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Liquidity 

 Generally, the Company’s primary source of cash has been from operations. The Company generally finances real estate with operating leases. The principal uses of cash have been to finance inventory requirements, capital expenditures related to store openings, store remodelings, management information systems and other support facilities, and to fund general working capital requirements. 

 Management believes its cash, cash equivalents and future operating cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund its working capital requirements, capital expenditures, retirement plan contributions, anticipated quarterly dividend payments, interest payments, potential share repurchases, and other cash requirements to support the development of its short-term and long-term operating strategies. The Company may also from time to time seek to retire or purchase outstanding debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. 

 During 2008 the Company had $75 million of cash from its international operations invested in the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., a money market fund (the “Fund”). This surplus cash was not required or used for daily operations. The Company requested a full redemption on September 16, 2008. At that time, the Company was informed by the Reserve Management Company, the Fund’s investment advisor, that the redemption trades would be honored at a $1.00 per share net asset value. Although the Company received a partial distribution of $49 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company has not received information as to when the remaining amount of its redemption request will be paid. Litigation, to which the Company is not a party, exists that involves how the remaining assets of the Fund should be distributed. Therefore, there is a risk that the Company could receive less than the $1.00 per share net asset value. As a result, during the third quarter of 2008, the Company recognized an impairment loss of $3 million to reflect a decline in fair value that is other-than-temporary. Based on the maturities of the underlying investments in the Fund and the current status of the redemption process, the Company reclassified $23 million (net of the impairment charge of $3 million) from “Cash and cash equivalents” to “Short-term investments” in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2009. We believe that we have adequate liquidity to meet our business needs through our existing cash balances, our ability to generate cash flows through operations, and the amounts available to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 

 Maintaining access to merchandise that the Company considers appropriate for its business may be subject to the policies and practices of its key vendors. Therefore, the Company believes that it is critical to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with its key vendors. The Company purchased approximately 80 percent in 2008 and 77 percent in 2007 of its merchandise from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. Approximately 64 percent in 2008 and 56 percent in 2007 was purchased from one vendor — Nike, Inc. 

 Planned capital expenditures for 2009 are approximately $100 million,of which $77 million relates to modernizations of existing stores and new store openings, and $23 million reflects the development of information systems and other support facilities. The Company has the ability to revise and reschedule the anticipated capital expenditure program, should the Company’s financial position require it. 

 The Company has contributed $8 million to its U.S. pension plan in February 2009. Due to the pension plan asset performance experienced for the year ended January 31, 2009, the Company may make additional contributions during 2009 to its U.S. qualified pension plan. The Company is in the process of evaluating the amount and timing of the contribution. The contribution amount will depend on the plan asset performance for the balance of the year and any statutory or regulatory changes that may occur. 

17 

 Any material adverse change in customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces or customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, the Company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a significant portion of its merchandise purchases, and risks associated with foreign global sourcing or economic conditions worldwide could affect the ability of the Company to continue to fund its needs from business operations. 

Cash Flow 

 Operating activities from continuing operations provided cash of $383 million in 2008 as compared with $283 million in 2007. These amounts reflect income from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes. During 2008, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges and store closing program costs of $259 million primarily related to its domestic operations. Merchandise inventories represented a $128 million source of cash in 2008 as inventory purchases were reduced to keep inventory levels in line with sales. Additionally, the Company contributed $6 million to its Canadian qualified pension plan. 

 Operating activities from continuing operations provided cash of $283 million in 2007 as compared with $189 million in 2006. During 2007, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges and store closing program costs of $124 million related to its domestic operations. Merchandise inventories represented a $55 million source of cash in 2007 as inventory purchases were reduced to keep inventory levels in line with sales. Additionally, the Company did not contribute to its pension plans in 2007, as no contributions were required, compared with $68 million contributed in 2006. 

 Net cash used by investing activities of the Company’s continuing operations was $272 million in 2008 as compared with $117 million provided by investing activities in 2007. The net cash used by investing activities for 2008 reflects the asset purchase from dELiA*s, Inc. of CCS for $106 million (including capitalized acquisition costs). Investing activities in 2008 also included a $3 million gain related to the sale of two lease interests in Europe. The Company did not purchase or sell short-term investments during 2008. However, reflected in investing activities is the reclassification of $23 million from cash and cash equivalents to short-term investments representing the remaining money market investment. Capital expenditures of $146 million in 2008 and $148 million in 2007 primarily related to store remodeling and new stores. 

 Net cash provided by investing activities of the Company’s continuing operations was $117 million in 2007 as compared with $108 million used in investing activities in 2006. During 2007, the Company liquidated most of its short-term investments, which represented auction rate securities, due to issues in the global credit and capital markets. Capital expenditures of $148 million in 2007 and $165 million in 2006 primarily related to store remodeling and new stores. During 2007, the Company received $21 million representing the maturity of an investment of $14 million and the repayment of a note of $7 million. 

 Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations was $185 million in 2008 as compared with $138 million in 2007. During 2008, the Company reduced its long-term debt by repaying the balance of its term loan of $88 million. Additionally, the Company purchased and retired $6 million of its $200 million 8.50 percent debentures payable in 2022. The Company declared and paid dividends totaling $93 million in 2008 and $77 million in 2007. During 2008 and 2007, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $2 million and $9 million, respectively. 

 Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations was $138 million in 2007 as compared with $142 million in 2006. During 2007, the Company repaid $2 million of its term loan, purchased and retired $5 million of its 8.50 percent debentures payable in 2022, and repaid and retired its $14 million Industrial Revenue Bond, which was accounted for as capital lease. The Company recorded an excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation of $1 million as a financing activity. The Company declared and paid dividends totaling $77 million in 2007 and $61 million in 2006. During 2007 and 2006, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $9 million and $12 million, respectively. During 2007, the Company purchased 2,283,254 shares of its common stock for approximately $50 million. 

18 

Capital Structure 

May 2008 Amended Credit Agreement 

 On May 16, 2008, the Company entered into an amended credit agreement with its banks, providing for a $175 million revolving credit facility and extending the maturity date to May 16, 2011 (the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement also provides an incremental facility of up to $100 million under certain circumstances. Simultaneously with entering into the Credit Agreement, the Company repaid the $88 million that was outstanding on its term loan with the banks, which was scheduled to mature in May 2009. 

 The Credit Agreement provides that the Company comply with certain financial covenants, including (i) a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25:1 for the 2008 fiscal year, 1.50:1 for the 2009 fiscal year, and 1.75:1 for each year thereafter and (ii) a minimum liquidity/excess cash flow covenant, which provides that if at the end of any fiscal quarter minimum liquidity, as defined in the Credit Agreement, is less than $350 million, the excess cash flow for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on such date must be at least $25 million. The amount permitted to be paid by the Company as dividends in any fiscal year is $105 million under the terms of the Credit Agreement. With regard to stock purchases, the Credit Agreement provides that not more than $50 million in the aggregate may be expended unless the fixed charge coverage ratio is at least 2.0:1 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended prior to any stock repurchase. Additionally, the Credit Agreement provides for a security interest in certain of the Company’s intellectual property and certain other non-inventory assets. The Company was in compliance with all covenants on January 31, 2009. 

 During 2008, the Company purchased and retired $6 million of the $200 million 8.50 percent debentures payable in 2022, bringing the outstanding balance to $123 million, excluding the fair value of the interest rate swap, for the year ended January 31, 2009. The fair value of the interest rate swaps, included in other assets, was approximately $19 million and the carrying value of the 8.50 debentures was increased by the corresponding amount. 

March 2009 New Credit Agreement 

 On March 20, 2009, the Company entered into a new credit agreement with its banks, providing for a $200 million revolving credit facility maturing on March 20, 2013 (the “New Credit Agreement”), which replaces the existing Credit Agreement. The New Credit Agreement also provides an incremental facility of up to $100 million under certain circumstances. The New Credit Agreement provides for a security interest in certain of the Company’s domestic assets, including certain inventory assets. However, no material covenants or payment restrictions exist until the Company is borrowing under the agreement and, in that event, the restrictions may vary depending upon the level of borrowings. 

Credit Rating 

 As of March 30, 2009, the Company’s corporate credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are BB- and Ba3, respectively. Additionally, as of March 30, 2009, Moody’s Investor Services has rated the Company’s senior unsecured notes B1. 

Debt Capitalization and Equity 

 For purposes of calculating debt to total capitalization, the Company includes the present value of operating lease commitments in total net debt. Total net debt including the present value of operating leases is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 4 percent to 13 percent, which represent the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the inclusion of the present value of operating leases in total debt is useful to our investors, credit constituencies, and rating agencies. The following table sets forth the components of the Company’s capitalization, both with and without the present value of operating leases: 

19 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 The Company reduced debt by $94 million (this reduction was offset by a $15 million increase in the fair value of the interest rate swaps), and decreased cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments by $85 million during 2008. Additionally, the present value of the operating leases decreased by $174 million representing store closures and the effect of foreign currency fluctuations primarily related to the euro. Including the present value of operating leases, the Company’s net debt capitalization percent increased 160 basis points in 2008. The decrease in shareholders’ equity of $337 million in 2008 relates to the following: net loss of $80 million, $93 million in dividends paid, $12 million related to stock plans, and a decrease of $83 million in the foreign exchange currency translation adjustment, primarily related to the value of the euro in relation to the U.S. dollar. In addition, as required by SFAS No. 158, during 2008 the Company recognized, within accumulated other comprehensive loss, amortization of prior service costs and net actuarial gains and losses, as well as an additional charge representing the change in the funded status of the pension and postretirement plans, which totaled $91 million after-tax. 

Contractual Obligations and Commitments 

 The following tables represent the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments as of January 31, 2009: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________

 (1)  The amounts presented above represent the contractual maturities of the Company’s long-term debt, excluding interest. Additional information is included in the “Long-Term Debt” note under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

 (2) The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Company’s leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance, and other costs. These costs have historically represented approximately 25 to 30 percent of the minimum rent amount. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are unknown. 

 (3) The Company’s other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2009 primarily comprise pension and postretirement benefits, deferred rent liability, income taxes, workers’ compensation and general liability reserves and various other accruals. The amounts presented in the table comprises the Company’s February 2009 pension plan contributions of $11 million and the liability related to the European net investment hedge of $24 million. Other than these liabilities, other amounts have been excluded from the above table as the timing and/or amount of any cash payment is uncertain. The timing of the remaining amounts that are known have not been included as they are minimal and not useful to the presentation. Additional information is included in the “Other Liabilities,” “Financial Instruments and Risk Management,” and “Retirement Plans and Other Benefits” notes under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

20 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________

 (4)  Represents open purchase orders, as well other commitments for merchandise purchases, at January 31, 2009. The Company is obligated under the terms of purchase orders; however, the Company is generally able to renegotiate the timing and quantity of these orders with certain vendors in response to shifts in consumer preferences. 

 (5) Represents payments required by non-merchandise purchase agreements and minimum royalty requirements. 

 The Company does not have any off-balance sheet financing, other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business as disclosed above, or unconsolidated special purpose entities. The Company does not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities. The Company’s policy prohibits the use of derivatives for which there is no underlying exposure. 

 In connection with the sale of various businesses and assets, the Company may be obligated for certain lease commitments transferred to third parties and pursuant to certain normal representations, warranties, or indemnifications entered into with the purchasers of such businesses or assets. Although the maximum potential amounts for such obligations cannot be readily determined, management believes that the resolution of such contingencies will not significantly affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. The Company is also operating certain stores for which lease agreements are in the process of being negotiated with landlords. Although there is no contractual commitment to make these payments, it is likely that leases will be executed. 

Critical Accounting Policies 

 Management’s responsibility for integrity and objectivity in the preparation and presentation of the Company’s financial statements requires diligent application of appropriate accounting policies. Generally, the Company’s accounting policies and methods are those specifically required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Included in the “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” is a summary of the Company’s most significant accounting policies. In some cases, management is required to calculate amounts based on estimates for matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company believes the following to be the most critical of those accounting policies that necessitate subjective judgments. 

Business Combinations 

 The Company accounts for acquisitions of other businesses in accordance with SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations” (“SFAS No. 141”). SFAS No. 141 requires that the Company record the net assets of acquired businesses at fair value, and make estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of these acquired assets and liabilities. The Company allocates the purchase price of acquired businesses based, in part, upon internal estimates of cash flows and considering the report of a third-party valuation expert retained to assist the Company. Changes to the assumptions used to estimate the fair value could affect the recorded amounts of the assets acquired and the resultant goodwill. 

Merchandise Inventories 

 Merchandise inventories for the Company’s Athletic Stores are valued at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method (“RIM”). The RIM is commonly used by retail companies to value inventories at cost and calculate gross margins due to its practicality. Under the retail method, cost is determined by applying a cost-to-retail percentage across groupings of similar items, known as departments. The cost-to-retail percentage is applied to ending inventory at its current owned retail valuation to determine the cost of ending inventory on a department basis. The RIM is a system of averages that requires management’s estimates and assumptions regarding markups, markdowns and shrink, among others, and as such, could result in distortions of inventory amounts. 

21 

 Significant judgment is required for these estimates and assumptions, as well as to differentiate between promotional and other markdowns that may be required to correctly reflect merchandise inventories at the lower of cost or market. The Company provides reserves based on current selling prices when the inventory has not been marked down to market. The failure to take permanent markdowns on a timely basis may result in an overstatement of cost under the retail inventory method. The decision to take permanent markdowns includes many factors, including the current environment, inventory levels and the age of the item. Management believes this method and its related assumptions, which have been consistently applied, to be reasonable. 

Vendor Reimbursements 

 In the normal course of business, the Company receives allowances from its vendors for markdowns taken. Vendor allowances are recognized as a reduction in cost of sales in the period in which the markdowns are taken. Vendor allowances contributed 30 basis points to the 2008 gross margin rate. The Company also has volume-related agreements with certain vendors, under which it receives rebates based on fixed percentages of cost purchases. These volume-related rebates are recorded in cost of sales when the product is sold and they contributed 10 basis points to the 2008 gross margin rate. 

 The Company receives support from some of its vendors in the form of reimbursements for cooperative advertising and catalog costs for the launch and promotion of certain products. The reimbursements are agreed upon with vendors for specific advertising campaigns and catalogs. Cooperative income, to the extent that it reimburses specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to date, is recorded in SG&A in the same period as the associated expenses are incurred. Reimbursements received that are in excess of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to date are recognized as a reduction to the cost of merchandise and are reflected in cost of sales as the merchandise is sold. Cooperative reimbursements amounted to approximately 38 percent of total advertising costs in 2008 and approximately 12 percent of catalog costs in 2008. 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Intangibles 

 In accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS No. 144”), the Company recognizes an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, a triggering event, comprises measurable operating performance criteria at the division level as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis is necessitated by the occurrence of a triggering event, the Company uses assumptions, which are predominately identified from the Company’s three-year strategic plans, in determining the impairment amount. In the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets, the Company compares the carrying amount of the asset with the estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows, the Company measures the amount of the impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with its estimated fair value. The estimation of fair value is measured by discounting expected future cash flows at the Company’s weighted-average cost of capital. Management believes its policy is reasonable and is consistently applied. Future expected cash flows are based upon estimates that, if not achieved, may result in significantly different results. During 2008, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $67 million primarily to write-down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements for the Company’s U.S. store operations pursuant to SFAS No. 144. 

 In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” the Company is required to perform an impairment review of its goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. The Company has chosen to perform this review at the beginning of each fiscal year, and it is done in a two-step approach. The initial step requires that the carrying value of each reporting unit be compared with its estimated fair value. The second step — to evaluate goodwill of a reporting unit for impairment — is only required if the carrying value of that reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. The Company used a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The determination of discounted cash flows of the reporting units and assets and liabilities within the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, earnings before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. The market approach requires judgment and uses one or more methods to compare the reporting unit with similar businesses, business ownership interests or securities that have been sold. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. 

22 

 The Company assigned discount rates ranging from 12 to 14 percent for the four reporting units. The Company evaluated the merits of each significant assumption, both individually and in the aggregate, used to determine the fair value of the reporting units, as well as the fair values of the corresponding assets and liabilities within the reporting units, and concluded they are reasonable and are consistent with prior valuations. 

 Owned trademarks and tradenames that have been determined to have indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but are reviewed at least annually for potential impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142, as mentioned above. The fair values of purchased intangible assets are estimated and compared to their carrying values. We estimate the fair value of these intangible assets based on an income approach using the relief-from-royalty method. This methodology assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of these types of assets. This approach is dependent on a number of factors, including estimates of future growth and trends, royalty rates in the category of intellectual property, discount rates and other variables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. 

 We consider many factors in evaluating whether the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, including declines in stock price and market capitalization in relation to the book value of the Company and macroeconomic conditions affecting retail. In the last few months of 2008 and into 2009, the capital markets experienced substantial volatility and the Company’s stock price declined substantially, causing the Company’s book value to exceed its market capitalization. Accordingly, we concluded that a triggering event had occurred. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company performed an analysis of its goodwill and other intangibles. 

 Based on the results of step one, the fair values of the Direct-to-Customers and Foot Locker Europe reporting units exceeded their carrying values, indicating that there was no impairment of goodwill at these reporting units. The discount rates would have to be increased to over 17 percent before the fair values of these reporting units would be less than their carrying values. The Company does not believe the resulting discount rates would be reasonable relative to the risks associated with the future cash flows of these reporting units. The results of both the income and market approaches indicated that the fair values were in excess of the carrying values. The Company has applied these approaches consistent with prior valuations. 

 However, the fair values of the Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker and Footaction reporting unit and the Champs Sports reporting unit indicated a potential impairment. The decline in the fair values of these reporting units reflected lower expected sales and cash flows as a result of the macroeconomic environment and uncertainty around future cash flows. The Company completed the second step where the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit to determine an implied goodwill value. This allocation is similar to a purchase price allocation performed in purchase accounting. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the implied goodwill value, an impairment loss should be recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Accordingly, the Company determined that the goodwill assigned to these reporting units were fully impaired. Additionally, the Company performed a reconciliation of its market capitalization to the total fair value. The principal reconciling item was ascribed to a control premium associated with the consolidated businesses that would not be reflected in public market trading prices. 

 The Company’s review of goodwill and other intangibles resulted in impairment charges totaling $169 million. 

Share-Based Compensation 

 The Company estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Company estimates the expected term of options granted using its historical exercise and post-vesting employment termination patterns, which the Company believes are representative of future behavior. Changing the expected term by one year changes the fair value by 3 to 5 percent depending if the change was an increase or decrease to the expected term. The Company estimates the expected volatility of its common stock at the grant date using a weighted-average of the Company’s historical volatility and implied volatility from traded options on the Company’s common stock. A 50 basis point change in volatility would have a 2 percent change to the fair value. The risk-free interest rate assumption is determined using the Federal Reserve nominal rates for U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds with maturities similar to those of the expected term of the award being valued. 

23 

 The expected dividend yield is derived from the Company’s historical experience. A 50 basis point change to the dividend yield would change the fair value by approximately 5 percent. The Company records stock-based compensation expense only for those awards expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate based on its historical pre-vesting forfeiture data, which it believes are representative of future behavior, and periodically will revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. 

 The Black-Scholes option valuation model requires the use of subjective assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value of the options. The Company may elect to use different assumptions under the Black-Scholes option pricing model in the future if there is a difference between the assumptions used in determining stock-based compensation cost and the actual factors that become known over time. 

Pension and Postretirement Liabilities 

 The Company determines its obligations for pension and postretirement liabilities based upon assumptions related to discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on invested plan assets, salary increases, age, and mortality among others. Management reviews all assumptions annually with its independent actuaries, taking into consideration existing and future economic conditions and the Company’s intentions with regard to the plans. Management believes that its estimates for 2008, as disclosed in the “Retirement Plans and Other Benefits” note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” to be reasonable. 

 Long-Term Rate of Return Assumption - The expected long-term rate of return on invested pension plan assets is a component of pension expense. The rate is based on the plans’ weighted-average target asset allocation, as well as historical and future expected performance of those assets. The target asset allocation is selected to obtain an investment return that is sufficient to cover the expected benefit payments and to reduce future contributions by the Company. The Company’s common stock represented approximately one percent of the total pension plans’ assets at January 31, 2009. 

 The weighted-average long-term rate of return used to determine 2008 pension expense was 8.17 percent. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return would have increased 2008 pension expense by approximately $3 million. The actual return on plan assets in a given year typically differs from the expected long-term rate of return, and the resulting gain or loss is deferred and amortized into the plans’ expense over time. 

 Discount Rate - An assumed discount rate is used to measure the present value of future cash flow obligations of the plans and the interest cost component of pension expense and postretirement income. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Company’s U.S. benefit obligations as of January 31, 2009 was derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company compares the plans’ projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the Citibank Pension Discount Curve. The cash flows are then discounted to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Company’s Canadian benefit obligations as of January 31, 2009 was developed by using the plan’s bond portfolio indices, which match the benefit obligations. 

 The weighted-average discount rates used to determine the 2008 benefit obligations related to the Company’s pension and postretirement plans were 6.22 percent and 6.20 percent, respectively. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average discount rate would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation as of January 31, 2009 of the pension plans by approximately $24 million and the effect on the postretirement plan would not be significant. Such a decrease would not have significantly changed 2008 pension expense or postretirement income. 

 There is limited risk to the Company for increases in health care costs related to the postretirement plan as, beginning in 2001, new retirees have assumed the full expected costs and then-existing retirees have assumed all increases in such costs. 

 The Company expects to record postretirement income of approximately $6 million and pension expense of approximately $18 million in 2009. 

24 

Income Taxes 

 In accordance with GAAP, deferred tax assets are recognized for tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards, reduced by a valuation allowance, which is established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management is required to estimate taxable income for future years by taxing jurisdiction and to use its judgment to determine whether or not to record a valuation allowance for part or all of a deferred tax asset. A one percent change in the Company’s overall statutory tax rate for 2008 would have resulted in a $10 million change in the carrying value of the net deferred tax asset and a corresponding charge or credit to income tax expense depending on whether such tax rate change was a decrease or increase. 

 The Company has operations in multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. Tax audits by their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve. Accruals of tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgments with respect to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual results could vary from these estimates. 

 The Company expects its 2009 effective tax rate to range from 36 to 37 percent. The actual rate will primarily depend upon the percentage of the Company’s income earned in the United States as compared with international operations. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised 2007), “Business Combinations,” (“SFAS No. 141(R)”). This standard will significantly change the accounting for business combinations. Under SFAS No. 141(R), an acquiring entity will be required to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition date fair value with limited exceptions. SFAS No. 141(R) also includes a substantial number of new disclosure requirements. SFAS No. 141(R) applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) to have an affect on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - An Amendment of ARB No. 51” (“SFAS No. 160”), which establishes new accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. Specifically, this statement requires the recognition of a noncontrolling interest (minority interest) as equity in the consolidated financial statements and separate from the parent’s equity. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. This standard does not currently affect the Company. 

 In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133” (“SFAS No. 161”). SFAS No. 161 amends SFAS No. 133 by requiring expanded disclosures about an entity’s derivative instruments and hedging activities. SFAS No. 161 requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivative instruments, quantitative disclosures about the fair values of derivative instruments and their gains and losses, and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative instruments. SFAS No. 161 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company does not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a significant effect on its financial statement disclosures. 

 In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 142-3, “Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets” (“FSP 142-3”). FSP 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” This FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect that the adoption of FSP 142-3 will have a significant effect on its financial statements. 

 In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, “The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” (“SFAS No. 162”). SFAS No. 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The Company adopted SFAS No. 162 on the effective date of November 13, 2008 and it did not have any impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

25 

 In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position EITF 03-6-1, “Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities” (“FSP EITF 03-6-1”). FSP EITF 03-6-1 provides that unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. The FSP EITF 03-6-1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years. Upon adoption, a company is required to retrospectively adjust its earnings per share data (including any amounts related to interim periods, summaries of earnings and selected financial data) to conform with the provisions of FSP EITF 03-6-1. The Company is currently assessing the potential effect of FSP EITF 03-6-1 on its reporting of earnings per share. 

 In December 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) FAS No. 132(R)-1, “Employers’ Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets” (“FSP FAS No. 132(R)-1”), which amends SFAS No. 132(R) “Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits – an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, and 106” (“SFAS No. 132(R)”). FSP FAS No. 132(R)-1 requires more detailed disclosures about the assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan and is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. The Company is in the process of evaluating FSP FAS No. 132(R)-1 and does not expect it will have a significant impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

 This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, which address activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, such things as future capital expenditures, expansion, strategic plans, dividend payments, stock repurchases, growth of the Company’s business and operations, including future cash flows, revenues and earnings, and other such matters are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors detailed in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the effects of currency fluctuations, customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, the Company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor), unseasonable weather, further deterioration of global financial markets, economic conditions worldwide, any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to the threat of future terrorist activities in the United States or in other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas, the ability of the Company to execute its business plans effectively with regard to each of its business units, risks associated with foreign global sourcing, including political instability, changes in import regulations, and disruptions to transportation services and distribution. Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk