Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

This section includes a discussion of our results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2013. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Overview  

Every day, we are helping industries, communities and individuals reduce, reuse and remove waste better through sound sustainability strategies. We have a precise day-to-day focus on collecting and handling our customers’ waste efficiently and responsibly. Meanwhile, we are also developing and implementing new ways to handle and extract value from waste. Our employees are committed to delivering environmental performance — our mission is to maximize resource value, while minimizing environmental impact, so that both our economy and our environment can thrive. Drawing on our resources and experience, we actively pursue projects and initiatives that benefit the waste industry, the customers and communities we serve and the environment.  

We are also committed to providing long-term value to our stockholders by successfully executing on our strategic goals of optimizing our business, knowing and servicing the customer better than anyone else, and extracting more value from the materials we handle. In pursuit of these long-term goals, we have sharpened our focus on the following key priorities:  

   Ÿ    Pursue revenue growth through customer-focused segmentation, pricing discipline and strategic acquisitions;  

   Ÿ    Continually emphasize cost control and investment in technology and systems that enhance the efficiency of our operations; and  

   Ÿ    Invest in emerging technologies that offer alternatives to traditional disposal and generate additional value from the waste, recycling and other streams we manage.  

We believe that execution of our strategy through these key priorities will drive continued growth and leadership in a dynamic industry, as customers increasingly seek non-traditional solutions.  

Notable items of our 2013 financial results include:  

   Ÿ    Revenues of $14.0 billion in 2013 compared with $13.6 billion in 2012, an increase of $334 million, or 2.4%. This increase in revenues is primarily attributable to (i) positive revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal operations of $235 million, or 2.1%, and (ii) revenue from acquisitions, driven in large part by our acquisitions of Greenstar and RCI, which increased revenues by $138 million and $80 million, respectively. These increases were partially offset by lower volumes, which decreased our revenues by $133 million;  

   Ÿ    Operating expenses of $9.1 billion in 2013, or 65.2% of revenues, compared with $8.9 billion, or 65.1% of revenues, in 2012. This increase of $233 million is largely due to (i) our acquisition of Greenstar, which increased operating expenses by $131 million, and was primarily related to cost of goods sold and, to a lesser extent, labor and related benefits and other categories; (ii) higher labor and related benefits due to merit increases and higher incentive compensation costs attributed to higher anticipated payouts and (iii) higher costs from the acquired RCI operations, primarily subcontractor costs and, to a lesser extent, cost of goods sold. The increases attributable to Greenstar and RCI were incurred in connection with the acquisition revenues discussed above;  

34  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   Ÿ    Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1,468 million in 2013, or 10.5% of revenues, compared with $1,472 million, or 10.8% of revenues, in 2012. This decrease of $4 million is primarily due to our restructuring efforts and cost control initiatives and the collection of reserved receivables in Puerto Rico offset, in part, by higher compensation costs due to an increase in the accrual for incentive plan payouts due to improved performance;  

   Ÿ    Income from operations of $1.1 billion, or 7.7% of revenues, in 2013 compared with $1.9 billion, or 13.6% of revenues, in 2012, the decrease of which is primarily attributable to the impairment charges discussed below;  

   Ÿ    Net income attributable to Waste Management, Inc. of $98 million, or $0.21 per diluted share for 2013, as compared with $817 million, or $1.76 per diluted share for 2012, the decrease of which is primarily attributable to the impairment charges discussed below;  

   Ÿ    Net cash provided by operating activities of $2,455 million in 2013, as compared with $2,295 million in 2012, an increase $160 million; and  

   Ÿ    In 2013, we returned $683 million and $239 million to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, respectively, compared with $658 million through dividends in 2012.  

The following explanation of certain items that impacted the comparability of our 2013 results with 2012 has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2013 results were affected by the following:  

   Ÿ    The recognition of net pre-tax charges aggregating $1.0 billion, primarily related to (i) a $483 million charge to impair goodwill associated with our Wheelabrator business; (ii) $262 million of charges to impair certain landfills, primarily in our Eastern Canada Area; (iii) $144 million of charges to write down the carrying value of three waste-to-energy facilities and (iv) $71 million of impairment charges relating to investments in waste diversion technology companies. We do not expect these impairment charges to materially impact our future results of operations or cash flows. These items had a negative impact of $1.91 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax charges aggregating $23 million primarily related to our acquisitions of Greenstar and RCI as well as our July 2012 restructuring and other charges. These items had a negative impact of $0.03 on our diluted earnings per share.  

The following explanation of certain notable items that impacted the comparability of our 2012 results with 2011 has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2012 results were affected by the following:  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax impairment charges aggregating $109 million attributable primarily to facilities in our medical waste services business and investments in waste diversion technologies. These items had a negative impact of $0.17 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax restructuring costs aggregating $82 million primarily related to our July 2012 restructuring as well as integration costs associated with our acquisition of Oakleaf. These items had a negative impact of $0.11 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a pre-tax charge of $10 million related to the withdrawal from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan and a pre-tax charge of $6 million resulting from a labor union dispute. These items had a negative impact of $0.02 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax charges aggregating $10 million related to an accrual for legal reserves and the impact of a decrease in the risk-free discount rate used to measure our environmental remediation liabilities. These items had a negative impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share.  

Our 2011 results were affected by the following:  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a pre-tax charge of $24 million as a result of a litigation loss, which had a negative impact of $0.03 on our diluted earnings per share;  

35  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax restructuring charges, excluding charges recognized in the operating results of Oakleaf, of $17 million related to our cost savings programs. These charges were primarily related to employee severance and benefit costs and had a negative impact of $0.02 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $11 million related to the Oakleaf acquisition, which includes the operating results of Oakleaf and related interest expense and integration costs. These items had a negative impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a favorable pre-tax benefit of $9 million from a revision to an environmental remediation liability at a closed landfill, which had a positive impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of non-cash, pre-tax asset impairment charges of $9 million primarily related to two of our medical waste services facilities. The impairment charges had a negative impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a tax benefit of $19 million due to favorable tax audit settlements and favorable adjustments relating to the finalization of our 2010 tax returns. These items had a positive impact of $0.04 on our diluted earnings per share.  

We experienced notably stronger free cash flow in 2013 when compared to 2012 due to improvements in cash flow from operations, primarily as a result of our pricing discipline. In 2013, we delivered on our prior expectation related to pricing, with internal revenue growth from yield at its highest level for the year in the fourth quarter and greater than 2.0% for the full year for the first time since 2010. Our cash flow also benefitted from our increased focus on capital spending management, and we continued to see the anticipated benefits from our cost savings programs, including lower selling, general and administrative costs when compared to 2012. Further, we increased the amount we returned to stockholders in 2013 compared to 2012 by increasing our dividend and repurchasing shares. Our fourth quarter and full year results for 2013 have laid a foundation that we expect will benefit us in 2014, allowing us to focus on generating solid earnings and cash flow driven by increased yield and cost controls. We also expect to continue to use our free cash flow to pay our dividends, repurchase shares, reduce debt and make appropriate acquisitions and investments in our traditional solid waste business.  

Free Cash Flow  

As is our practice, we are presenting free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity, in our disclosures because we use this measure in the evaluation and management of our business. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures, plus proceeds from divestitures of businesses (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets. We believe it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. Free cash flow is not intended to replace “Net cash provided by operating activities,” which is the most comparable GAAP measure. However, we believe free cash flow gives investors useful insight into how we view our liquidity. Nevertheless, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt service requirements.  

Our calculation of free cash flow and reconciliation to “Net cash provided by operating activities” is shown in the table below (in millions), and may not be calculated the same as similarly-titled measures presented by other companies:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

36  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 (a) Proceeds from divestitures of businesses for the year ended December 31, 2011 included the receipt of a payment of $17 million related to a note receivable from a prior year divestiture. This receipt is included as a component of “Other” within “Cash flows from investing activities” in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 to the comparable period in 2012, the increase of $160 million was primarily related to the impact of higher cash earnings, favorable impacts of working capital changes and the payment of $59 million to settle the liabilities associated with the termination of our forward starting swaps in September 2012. The increase was partially offset by an increase in tax payments of $145 million and the favorable cash receipt of $72 million resulting from the termination of interest rate swaps in April 2012.  

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 to the comparable period in 2011, the decrease of $174 million was primarily related to the impact of lower cash earnings, an increase in tax payments of $63 million, the payment of $59 million to settle the liabilities associated with the termination of our forward starting swaps in September 2012 and unfavorable impacts of working capital changes. The decrease was partially offset by a favorable cash receipt of $72 million resulting from the termination of interest rate swaps in April 2012.  

The decrease in capital expenditures when comparing the year ended December 31, 2013 to the comparable period can generally be attributed to increased focus on capital spending management. The increase in capital expenditures when comparing the year ended December 31, 2012 to the comparable period in 2011 is a result of our increased spending on compressed natural gas vehicles, related fueling infrastructure and growth initiatives, and the impact of timing differences associated with cash payments for the previous years’ fourth quarter capital spending. We generally use a significant portion of our free cash flow on capital spending in the fourth quarter of each year. A more significant portion of our fourth quarter 2011 spending was paid in cash in 2012 than in the preceding year.  

Acquisitions  

Greenstar, LLC — On January 31, 2013, we paid $170 million inclusive of certain adjustments, to acquire Greenstar, LLC (“Greenstar”). Pursuant to the sale and purchase agreement, up to an additional $40 million is payable to the sellers during the period from 2014 to 2018, of which $20 million is guaranteed. The remaining $20 million of this consideration is contingent based on changes in certain recyclable commodity indexes and had a preliminary estimated fair value at closing of $16 million. Greenstar was an operator of recycling and resource recovery facilities. This acquisition provides the Company’s customers with greater access to recycling solutions, having supplemented our extensive nationwide recycling network with the operations of one of the nation’s largest private recyclers. Since the acquisition date, the Greenstar business has recognized revenues of $139 million and net losses of $17 million, which are included in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

RCI Environnement, Inc. — On July 5, 2013, we paid C$509 million, or $481 million, to acquire substantially all of the assets of RCI Environnement, Inc. (“RCI”), the largest waste management company in Quebec, and certain related entities. Total consideration, inclusive of amounts for estimated working capital, was C$515 million, or $487 million. RCI provides collection, transfer, recycling and disposal operations throughout the Greater Montreal area. The acquired RCI operations complement and expand the Company’s existing assets and operations in Quebec. Since the acquisition date, the RCI business has recognized revenues of $87 million and net income of $7 million, which are included in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

Oakleaf Global Holdings — On July 28, 2011, we paid $432 million, net of cash received of $4 million and inclusive of certain adjustments, to acquire Oakleaf. Oakleaf provides outsourced waste and recycling services through a nationwide network of third-party haulers. We acquired Oakleaf to advance our growth and transformation strategies and increase our national accounts customer base while enhancing our ability to provide comprehensive environmental solutions. For the year ended December 31, 2011, subsequent to the acquisition date, Oakleaf recognized revenues of $265 million and net income of less than $1 million, which are included in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.   

37  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial Information  

Comprehensive Income — In February 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued amended authoritative guidance associated with comprehensive income, which requires companies to provide information about the amounts that are reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component. Additionally, companies are required to present significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income. The amendment to authoritative guidance associated with comprehensive income was effective for the Company on January 1, 2013. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We have presented the information required by this amendment in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In June 2011, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with comprehensive income, which requires companies to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. This update eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in equity. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with comprehensive income were effective for the Company on January 1, 2012 and have been applied retrospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Impairment Testing — In July 2012, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment testing. The amended guidance provides companies the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the entity is not required to take further action. The amendments were effective for indefinite-lived intangible impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012; however, early adoption was permitted. The Company’s early adoption of this guidance in 2012 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. Additional information on impairment testing can be found in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Fair Value Measurement — In May 2011, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with fair value measurements. This amended guidance defines certain requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with GAAP. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with fair value measurements were effective for the Company on January 1, 2012 and have been applied prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Goodwill Impairment Testing — In September 2011, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with goodwill impairment testing. The amended guidance provides companies the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before performing the two-step impairment test. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. The amendments were effective for goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011; however, early adoption was permitted. The Company’s early adoption of this guidance in 2011 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. Additional information on impairment testing can be found in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements — In October 2009, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. This amended guidance addresses the determination of when individual deliverables within an arrangement are required to be treated as separate units of accounting and modifies the manner in which consideration is allocated across the separately identifiable deliverables. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with multiple-deliverable revenue  

38  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 arrangements became effective for the Company on January 1, 2011. The new accounting standard has been applied prospectively to arrangements entered into or materially modified after the date of adoption. The adoption of this guidance has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions  

In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with precision from available data or simply cannot be calculated. In some cases, these estimates are difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that present the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments, deferred income taxes and reserves associated with our insured and self-insured claims. Each of these items is discussed in additional detail below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements.  

Landfills  

Accounting for landfills requires that significant estimates and assumptions be made regarding (i) the cost to construct and develop each landfill asset; (ii) the estimated fair value of final capping, closure and post-closure asset retirement obligations, which must consider both the expected cost and timing of these activities; (iii) the determination of each landfill’s remaining permitted and expansion airspace and (iv) the airspace associated with each final capping event.  

Landfill Costs — We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs.  

Final Capping Costs — We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate landfill final capping costs to specific final capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post-closure monitoring and maintenance. The estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also consider when the costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post-closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be  

39  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Remaining Permitted Airspace — Our engineers, in consultation with third-party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography.  

Expansion Airspace — We also include currently unpermitted expansion airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe that obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria:  

   Ÿ    Personnel are actively working on the expansion of an existing landfill, including efforts to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals;  

   Ÿ    It is likely that the approvals will be received within the normal application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill is located;  

   Ÿ    We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;  

   Ÿ    There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could impair the success of such expansion;  

   Ÿ    Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and  

   Ÿ    Airspace and related costs, including additional closure and post-closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design.  

For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if certain of these criteria are no longer met as long as we continue to believe we will ultimately obtain the permit, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill-specific review process that includes approval by our Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 25 landfill sites with expansions included at December 31, 2013, seven landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Three of these landfills required approval by our Chief Financial Officer because of community or political opposition that could impede the expansion process. The remaining four landfills required approval due to local zoning restrictions or because the permit application processes do not meet the one- or five-year requirements.  

When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement costs related to final capping, closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill.  

Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined in cubic yards, an airspace utilization factor (“AUF”) is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and is then adjusted to account for future settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site-specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate, and operating practices. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent  

40  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 multi-level review by our engineering group, and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements.  

After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed as waste is received and deposited at the landfill by dividing the costs by the corresponding number of tons. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change.  

It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post-closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if it is determined that expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of a landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment or incur significantly higher amortization expense. If at any time management makes the decision to abandon the expansion effort, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately.  

Environmental Remediation Liabilities  

We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party (“PRP”) investigations, settlements, and certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials, external contractor costs and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on a number of estimates and assumptions.  

Where it is probable that a liability has been incurred, we estimate costs required to remediate sites based on site-specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the costs for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third-party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:  

   Ÿ    Management’s judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties’ sites;  

   Ÿ    Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation;  

   Ÿ    The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and  

   Ÿ    The typical allocation of costs among PRPs, unless the actual allocation has been determined.  

Asset Impairments  

Our long-lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. We monitor the carrying value of our long-lived assets for potential impairment on a nonrecurring basis and test the recoverability of such assets using significant unobservable (“Level 3”) inputs whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their  

41  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or changes in circumstances, including management decisions pertaining to such assets, are referred to as impairment indicators. If an impairment indicator occurs, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group; (ii) actual third-party valuations and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market for similar assets. If the fair value of an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs and is included in the “Goodwill impairments” and “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments (other than goodwill) and unusual items” line items in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment and projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized, which could impact our ability to accurately assess whether an asset has been impaired.  

There are additional considerations for impairments of landfills, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, as described below.  

Landfills — The assessment of impairment indicators and the recoverability of our capitalized costs associated with landfills and related expansion projects require significant judgment due to the unique nature of the waste industry, the highly regulated permitting process and the sensitive estimates involved. During the review of a landfill expansion application, a regulator may initially deny the expansion application although the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace, or a landfill may be required to cease accepting waste, prior to receipt of the expansion permit. However, such events occur in the ordinary course of business in the waste industry and do not necessarily result in impairment of our landfill assets because, after consideration of all facts, such events may not affect our belief that we will ultimately obtain the expansion permit. As a result, our tests of recoverability, which generally make use of a probability-weighted cash flow estimation approach, may indicate that no impairment loss should be recorded. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions — Expansion Airspace above for discussion of criteria involved in assessing our likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. At December 31, 2013, one of our landfill sites for which we believe receipt of the expansion permit is probable, is not currently accepting waste. The net recorded capitalized landfill asset cost for this site was $261 million at December 31, 2013. We performed a test of recoverability for this landfill and the undiscounted cash flows resulting from our probability-weighted estimation approach significantly exceeded the carrying value of this site. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $262 million of charges to impair certain of our landfills, primarily as a result of our consideration of management’s decision in the fourth quarter of 2013 not to actively pursue expansion and/or development of such landfills. These charges were primarily associated with two landfills in our Eastern Canada Area, which are no longer accepting waste. We had previously concluded that receipt of permits for these landfills was probable. However, in connection with our asset rationalization and capital allocation analysis, which was influenced, in some cases, by our acquisition of RCI, we determined that the future costs to construct these landfills could be avoided as we are able to allocate disposal that would have gone to these landfills to other facilities and not materially impact operations. As a result of management’s decision, we determined that the carrying values of landfill assets were no longer able to be recovered by the undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. As such, we wrote their carrying values down to their estimated fair values using a market approach considering the highest and best use of the assets.  

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to landfill asset impairments recognized during the reported periods.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted on a nonrecurring basis, we assess our goodwill for impairment using Level 3 inputs.  

We assess whether a goodwill impairment exists using both qualitative and quantitative assessments. Our qualitative assessment involves determining whether events or circumstances exist that indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If based on this qualitative assessment we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we will not perform a quantitative assessment.  

If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to perform a qualitative assessment, we perform a quantitative assessment, or two-step impairment test, to determine whether a goodwill impairment exists at the reporting unit. The first step in our quantitative assessment identifies potential impairments by comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. Fair value is typically estimated using a combination of the income approach and market approach or only an income approach when applicable. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows of the reporting units. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted-average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting units’ expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business. The market approach estimates fair value by measuring the aggregate market value of publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics to our business as a multiple of their reported cash flows. We then apply that multiple to the reporting units’ cash flows to estimate their fair values. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using valuation inputs from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our reporting units.  

Fair value computed by these two methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that these two methods provide a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of our reporting units.  

As a result of our annual fourth quarter impairment tests for our Wheelabrator business during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we concluded that goodwill was not impaired. In the second quarter of 2012, we believed an impairment indicator existed such that the fair value of our Wheelabrator business could potentially be less than its carrying amount because of the negative effect on our revenues of the continued deterioration of electricity commodity prices, coupled with our continued increased exposure to market prices as a result of the expiration of several long-term, fixed-rate electricity commodity contracts at our waste-to-energy and independent power facilities, and the expiration of several long-term disposal contracts at above-market rates. We performed the interim quantitative assessment using both an income and a market approach in the second quarter of 2012, which indicated that the estimated fair value of our Wheelabrator business exceeded its carrying value. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we again performed our annual impairment test of our goodwill balances, which indicated that the estimated fair value of our Wheelabrator business exceeded its carrying value by approximately 10% compared to an excess of 30% at our annual fourth quarter 2011 test. This quantitative assessment was performed using both an income and market approach.  

During 2013, we noted no indicators of impairment that required us to perform an interim impairment test; however, during our annual impairment test of our goodwill balances we determined the fair value of our Wheelabrator business had declined and the associated goodwill was impaired. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of $483 million, which had no related tax benefit. We estimated the implied fair value of our Wheelabrator reporting unit goodwill using a combination of income and market approaches. Because the annual impairment test indicated that Wheelabrator’s carrying value exceeded its estimated fair value, we performed the “step two” analysis. In the “step two” analysis, the fair values of all assets and liabilities were estimated, including tangible assets, power contracts, customer relationships and trade name for the purpose of deriving an estimate of the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill was then compared to the  

43  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 carrying amount of goodwill to determine the amount of the impairment. The factors contributing to the $483 million goodwill impairment charge principally relate to the continued challenging business environment in areas of the country in which Wheelabrator operates, characterized by lower available disposal volumes (which impact disposal rates and overall disposal revenue, as well as the amount of electricity Wheelabrator is able to generate), lower electricity pricing due to the pricing pressure created by availability of natural gas and increased operating costs as our facilities age. These factors caused us, relative to the 2012 impairment test, to lower assumptions for electricity and disposal revenue, and increase assumed operating costs. Additionally, the discount factor utilized in the income approach increased relative to that utilized in 2012 mainly due to increases in interest rates. If market prices for electricity are lower than our projections, our disposal volumes or rates decline, our costs or capital expenditures exceed our forecasts or our costs of capital increase, the estimated fair value of our Wheelabrator business could further decrease and potentially result in an additional impairment charge in a future period. We will continue to monitor our Wheelabrator business and the recoverability of the remaining $305 million goodwill balance.  

As a result of our annual fourth quarter impairment tests for our Eastern Canada Area during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we concluded that goodwill was not impaired. In 2013 and 2012, our annual goodwill impairment tests indicated that the estimated fair value of our Eastern Canada Area exceeded its carrying value by approximately 15% and 5%, respectively. These quantitative assessments were performed using both an income and market approach. If we do not achieve our anticipated disposal volumes, our collection or disposal rates decline, our costs or capital expenditures exceed our forecasts, costs of capital increase, or we do not receive anticipated landfill expansions, the estimated fair value of our Eastern Canada Area could decrease and potentially result in an impairment charge in a future period. We will continue to monitor our Eastern Canada Area.  

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Goodwill Impairments and Notes 6 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to goodwill impairments recognized during the reported periods.  

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Other Than Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill for impairment.  

When performing the impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we generally first conduct a qualitative analysis to determine whether we believe it is more likely than not that an asset has been impaired. If we believe an impairment has occurred, we then evaluate for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of assets to the carrying value. An impairment charge is recognized if the asset’s estimated fair value is less than its carrying value.  

Fair value is typically estimated using an income approach. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted-average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business.  

Fair value computed by this method is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that this method provides a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of the reporting units.  

Deferred Income Taxes  

Deferred income taxes are based on the difference between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred income tax provision represents the change during the reporting period in the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, net of the effect of acquisitions and dispositions. Deferred tax assets include tax loss and credit carry-forwards and are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on available  

44  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We establish reserves for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions may be challenged and potentially disallowed. When facts and circumstances change, we adjust these reserves through our provision for income taxes.  

Insured and Self-Insured Claims  

We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation insurance programs. Our liabilities associated with the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, are based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from our assumptions used. Estimated recoveries associated with our insured claims are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable.  

Results of Operations  

Operating Revenues  

Our operating revenues generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and waste-to-energy services and from sales of commodities by our recycling, waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy operations. Revenues from our collection operations are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility or MRF and our disposal costs. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue generally consists of tipping fees and the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The fees we charge for our collection, disposal, transfer and recycling services generally include fuel surcharges, which are indexed to current market costs for diesel fuel. Our waste-to-energy revenues, which are generated by our Wheelabrator business, are based on the type and weight or volume of waste received at our waste-to-energy facilities and IPPs and amounts charged for the sale of energy and steam. Our “Other” lines of business include WM Sustainability Business Services, our landfill gas-to-energy operations, Port-O-Let® services, portable self-storage, fluorescent lamp recycling and oil and gas producing properties. Intercompany revenues between our operations have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. These operations are presented as “Other” in the table below. Shown below (in millions) is the contribution to revenues during each year by reportable segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

45  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The mix of operating revenues from our major lines of business is reflected in the table below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues (dollars in millions) along with an explanation of the significant components of the current period changes:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Calculated by dividing the amount of current year increase or decrease by the prior year’s total company revenue adjusted to exclude the impacts of current year divestitures ($13,643 million and $13,374 million for 2013 and 2012, respectively).  

46  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 (b) The amounts reported herein represent the changes in our revenue attributable to average yield for the total Company. We also analyze the changes in average yield in terms of related-business revenues in order to differentiate the changes in yield attributable to our pricing strategies from the changes that are caused by market-driven price changes in commodities. The following table summarizes changes in revenues from average yield on a related-business basis (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (i) Calculated by dividing the increase or decrease for the current year by the prior year’s related business revenue, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year. The table below summarizes the related business revenues for each year, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (ii) Average revenue growth for yield for “Collection and disposal” excludes all electricity-related revenues generated by our Wheelabrator business and our landfill gas-to-energy operations, which are reported as “Electricity” revenues.  

Our revenues increased $334 million, or 2.4%, and $271 million, or 2.0%, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The year-over-year change in revenues for both periods has been driven by (i) acquisitions, particularly the acquisitions of Greenstar in January 2013 and RCI in July 2013, which increased revenues by $138 million and $80 million, respectively, and the acquisition of Oakleaf in July 2011, which increased revenues by $314 million for 2012; (ii) increased revenue growth from our collection and disposal average yield; (iii) higher revenues provided by our fuel surcharge program; (iv) market factors, including fluctuations in electricity prices at our merchant waste-to-energy facilities that favorably affected our revenues in 2013 but negatively affected our revenues in 2012; recyclable commodity prices that negatively affected  

47  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 revenues in both 2013 and 2012 and foreign currency translation, which negatively affected revenues from our Canadian operations in both 2013 and 2012 and (v) lower volumes, which drove revenue declines in 2013, while higher volumes drove revenue increases in 2012.  

The following provides further details associated with our period-to-period change in revenues.  

Average yield  

Collection and disposal average yield — This measure reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer, landfill and waste-to-energy disposal operations, exclusive of volume changes. Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield during both years includes not only base rate changes and environmental and service fee increases, but also (i) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to both the types of services provided and the geographic locations where our services are provided; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business and (iii) price decreases to retain customers.  

Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield was $235 million, or 2.1%, and $86 million, or 0.8%, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. This revenue growth from yield in 2013 was primarily driven by an aggressive pricing strategy, which decreased the dollar impact of rollbacks associated with those price increases and improved pricing on our new business, primarily in our collection operations, with growth of $232 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. We experienced growth in all three of our principal collection lines of business in both 2013 and 2012, as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

While our collection line of business was the primary driver of the year-over-year yield growth in both periods presented, our 2013 growth was more significant than our growth during 2012. This was driven, in part, by our more aggressive pricing strategy implemented in 2013. Conversely, our revenue growth due to volume has been negatively affected by our pricing strategy, with more significant volume declines during 2013. However, our pricing actions and our focus on controlling variable costs have consistently provided margin improvements in our collection line of business.  

Part of the year-over-year revenue growth from yield in 2013 is attributable to the new regulatory cost recovery fee that we instituted in April 2013 to help us recover a portion of the significant regulatory costs and fees, such as host fees and disposal taxes, which have not been recouped by our pricing programs. This new fee contributed approximately $43 million to our revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2013, principally in our collection business, with the most significant impact in our commercial collection line of business. Additionally, revenue growth from yield in our industrial line of business was aided by our continued expansion in the Energy Service business, which typically has higher average rates due to extended transportation distances, special waste handling costs and higher disposal costs. With respect to our residential line of business, we are focused on bidding on contracts that improve our yield performance and increase our overall returns. Our effort to increase yield in our residential line of business is a challenge due principally to a very competitive environment. A high percentage of our residential business is in municipal franchise markets, and many municipalities are facing significant budget challenges, which results in very competitive bid processes as we rebid contracts and try to win new contracts. Finally, yield growth from our landfill and transfer station operations also increased for both 2013 and 2012. Improving yield in our landfill business has proved to be a challenge, due, in part, to excess disposal capacity that exists in many of the markets in which we own or operate landfills.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The expiration and renegotiation of two long-term waste-to-energy disposal contracts in South Florida at lower rates negatively impacted our revenue growth from yield in our waste-to-energy line of business by $6 million and $21 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The year-over-year negative impact from the renegotiated contracts will continue through the first half of 2014.  

Revenues from our environmental fee, which are included in average yield on collection and disposal, totaled $344 million in both 2013 and 2012 and $303 million in 2011. Revenue increase from environmental fees flattened, as we did not implement fee increases in 2013 commensurate with the prior year. Additionally, as mentioned above, we instituted a new regulatory cost recovery fee in April 2013 that contributed approximately $43 million to revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2013.  

Recycling commodities — Year-over-year commodity price declines of approximately 5% and 25% resulted in decreased revenues of $79 million and $428 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The estimated negative impact on income from operations was approximately $20 million and $130 million for years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

Fuel surcharges and mandated fees — These revenues, which are predominantly generated by our fuel surcharge program, increased by $32 million and $33 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. These revenues fluctuate in response to changes in the national average prices for diesel fuel on which our surcharge is based. Although we experienced lower year-over-year average fuel prices in 2013, our fuel surcharge revenues increased as a result of a revision of the surcharge calculation implemented to better capture price increases intended to be recovered by the surcharge. The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to pass-through fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal government agencies at our landfills and transfer stations.  

Volume — Changes in our volume caused our revenue to decrease $133 million, or 1.0%, for the year ended December 31, 2013. This is a notable decrease when compared to our revenue increase on account of volume of $67 million, or 0.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our volume fluctuations are generally attributable to economic conditions, pricing changes, competition and diversion of waste by customers. Our collection business experienced revenue declines due to lower volumes in both periods presented. Collection business revenue declines due to lower volumes were $170 million for 2013 and $65 million in 2012. Our more aggressive pricing strategy during 2013 was a significant contributor to the higher volume declines.  

Other drivers affecting the comparability of volumes for the periods presented include:  

   Ÿ    Strategic accounts — We experienced revenue declines due to lower volumes associated with the loss of certain strategic accounts including certain large retail mall customers in 2013.  

   Ÿ    Hurricane Sandy — The $26 million of revenues resulting from the Hurricane Sandy cleanup efforts in the fourth quarter of 2012, primarily in the landfill line of business, negatively affected our year-over-year volume change for the year ended December 31, 2013 while favorably affecting volume in 2012.  

   Ÿ    Higher landfill volumes — We experienced higher landfill volumes in both comparable periods. In 2013, higher landfill volumes were primarily driven by our municipal solid waste business while higher special waste volumes in the eastern and mid-western parts of the country were the principal contributor to our higher landfill volumes in 2012.  

   Ÿ    Recycling commodities — Revenues increased from year-over-year volume growth in our recycling brokerage business and our material recovery facilities for both 2013 and 2012. The additional recycling capacity that we added in 2011 and 2012 contributed to this increase in revenues due to volume.  

Acquisitions — Revenues increased $292 million and $535 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, due to acquisitions. In 2013, the revenue increase due to acquisition was principally associated with the acquisition of Greenstar, which is reported in our “Recycling” line of business, and the acquisition of RCI, which is reported primarily in our “Collection” line of business. In 2012, the significant revenue increase due to acquisitions was principally associated with Oakleaf, included in our “Other” business,  

49  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 which anniversaried in July 2012. Additionally, in 2012, acquisitions increased our revenues in our collection line of business, due in part to our Energy Service and recycling lines of business. These acquisitions demonstrate our focus on identifying strategic growth opportunities in new, complementary lines of business.  

Operating Expenses  

Our operating expenses include (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs discussed below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are affected by variables such as volumes, distance and fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees, contingent landfill lease payments and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include interest accretion on landfill liabilities, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs and other landfill site costs; (ix) risk management costs, which include auto liability, workers’ compensation, general liability and insurance and claim costs and (x) other operating costs, which include telecommunications, equipment and facility rent, property taxes, utilities and supplies.  

Our operating expenses increased $233 million, or 2.6%, when comparing 2013 with 2012 and increased $338 million, or 4.0%, when comparing 2012 with 2011. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 65.2% in 2013, 65.1% in 2012 and 63.8% in 2011. The increases in our operating expenses during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 can largely be attributed to the following:  

Acquisitions — During the three years ended December 31, 2013, we made three acquisitions that were the most significant drivers of our operating expense increases. In January 2013, we acquired Greenstar, an operator of recycling and resource recovery facilities. The acquisition primarily increased cost of goods sold and, to a lesser extent, labor and related benefits and other categories. In July 2013, we acquired RCI, a waste management company comprised of collection, transfer, recycling and disposal operations. The acquisition increased operating costs, primarily in subcontractor costs and, to a lesser extent, cost of goods sold. The Oakleaf acquisition contributed to higher operating costs in 2012 when compared to the prior year period, primarily impacting subcontractor costs. The increase in operating expenses was incurred in connection with the related acquisition revenues discussed above in Operating Revenues.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Significant changes in our operating expenses are discussed below.  

   Ÿ    Labor and related benefits — Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include:  

   Ÿ    Higher wages due to merit increases effective in the second quarter of 2013 and the effect of acquisitions, particularly the Greenstar acquisition in 2013;  

   Ÿ    Incentive compensation expense fluctuations due to higher anticipated payouts for 2013 as compared to the prior year period and lower payouts for 2012 as compared to 2011;  

   Ÿ    Increased contract labor in both 2013 and 2012 principally attributed to the recycling line of business;  

   Ÿ    Headcount, exclusive of acquisitions, decreased in 2013 compared to the prior year period; conversely, headcount increased in 2012 when compared to 2011; and  

   Ÿ    Non-cash charges incurred during the third quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of 2012 as a result of our partial withdrawals from underfunded multiemployer pension plans.  

   Ÿ    Maintenance and repairs — The increase in 2013 compared to 2012 was driven by (i) the Greenstar acquisition and (ii) higher internal shop labor costs due in part to higher incentive compensation and merit increases. The increase in 2012 as compared to 2011 is primarily due to (i) increased fleet maintenance costs, which include services provided by third-parties, tires, parts and internal shop labor costs and (ii) differences in the timing and scope of planned maintenance projects at our waste-to-energy facilities.  

   Ÿ    Subcontractor costs — The decrease in 2013 was driven primarily by the volume decline associated with the loss of certain strategic accounts. These decreases were offset, in part, by higher costs associated with the acquired RCI operations. The increase in 2012 was driven in part by (i) the acquisition of Oakleaf in July 2011 and (ii) increased volumes related to Hurricane Sandy.  

   Ÿ    Cost of goods sold — The increase in cost of goods sold in 2013 is due in large part to higher customer rebates resulting from higher volumes in our recycling commodity business driven primarily by the acquired Greenstar operations. The significantly reduced market prices for recyclable commodities in 2012 drove the majority of the cost decrease when compared to the prior period.  

   Ÿ    Fuel — The decrease in fuel expense in 2013 compared to 2012 was due to (i) a retroactive CNG fuel excise tax credit recognized in the first quarter of 2013; (ii) reduced fuel purchases due to reduced collection volumes; (iii) lower costs as we convert our fleet to CNG vehicles and (iv) lower diesel fuel prices. The increase in fuel expense in 2012 compared to 2011 was mainly driven by higher diesel fuel prices.  

51  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   Ÿ    Disposal and franchise fees and taxes — The increase in costs in both 2013 and 2012 can be attributable to higher disposal fees and taxes due to higher landfill volumes. The current period increase was also driven by (i) higher municipal franchise fees relating to the collection line of business and (ii) a disposal surcharge at one of our waste-to-energy facilities. A host fee increase in 2012 contributed to the unfavorable variance when compared to the prior year.  

   Ÿ    Landfill operating costs — Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include:  

   Ÿ    Higher leachate costs caused by increased precipitation in several of our Areas for all comparable periods;  

   Ÿ    Favorable adjustments in 2013 and unfavorable adjustments in both 2012 and 2011 related to changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to discount the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets; and  

   Ÿ    A favorable remediation adjustment in 2012.  

   Ÿ    Other — The increased costs in 2013 when compared to 2012 were driven in part by (i) higher telecommunications costs driven by our initiative to equip our fleet with onboard computers; (ii) higher utilities; (iii) higher property taxes and (iv) lower gains on the sale of assets. These increases were offset, in part, by favorable adjustments to contingent consideration associated with the Greenstar acquisition. The increase in costs in 2012 when compared to the prior period was driven in part by (i) costs associated with a 2012 labor union dispute in the Seattle Area; (ii) increased oil and gas development expense in 2012 and (iii) higher rental costs in 2012, primarily associated with Oakleaf.  

Selling, General and Administrative  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor and related benefit costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity-based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees and (iv) other selling, general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility-related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our “Other” selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $4 million, or 0.3%, and decreased by $79 million, or 5.1%, when comparing 2013 with 2012 and 2012 with 2011, respectively. Our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 10.5% in 2013, 10.8% in 2012 and 11.6% in 2011.  

The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative costs for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

52  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Labor and related benefits — Factors affecting the year-over-year changes in our labor and related benefits costs include:  

   Ÿ    Higher incentive compensation costs of $94 million in 2013 and $73 million in 2011, as compared with 2012, as a result of higher anticipated payouts.  

   Ÿ    Higher non-cash compensation expense recognized in 2013 as compared to 2012, in part due to the payout of performance share units granted in 2010, which was approved in 2013. Expense associated with these awards had been reversed in 2012 when it no longer appeared probable that threshold performance would be achieved.  

   Ÿ    Cost savings of $45 million in 2013 driven primarily from our July 2012 restructuring.  

Professional fees — Consulting fees declined year over year as company-wide initiatives, which began in 2011, were implemented; partially offset by higher legal fees in 2012 as compared with 2013 and 2011.  

Provision for bad debts — Our provision for bad debts decreased in 2013 as a result of the collection of certain fully reserved receivables related to our Puerto Rico operations. Additionally, many of the billing delay issues we experienced throughout fiscal year 2012 with certain of our strategic account customers have been resolved, favorably affecting our year-over-year bad debt comparisons.  

Other — In 2013, controllable costs associated with (i) building and equipment; (ii) advertising; (iii) computer and telecommunication; (iv) travel and entertainment and (v) seminars and education have declined primarily as a result of our July 2012 restructuring and continued focus on cost-control initiatives. In 2012, we experienced decreases in (i) litigation settlement costs and (ii) insurance and claims. These decreases were partially offset by increases in (i) computer and telecommunications costs, due in part to improvements we are making to our information technology systems and (ii) building and equipment costs, which include rental and utilities.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded for capital leases, on a straight-line basis from three to 50 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction and asset retirement costs arising from closure and post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the total estimated remaining capacity of a site, which includes both permitted capacity and expansion capacity that meets our Company-specific criteria for amortization purposes; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units-of-consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, using either a 150% declining balance approach or a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are generally from two to 15 years depending on the type of asset.  

The following table summarizes the components of our depreciation and amortization costs for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

53  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The increase in amortization of intangible assets in 2013 is primarily related to the amortization of customer relationships acquired through our acquisition of RCI. The increase in amortization of intangible assets in 2012 is primarily related to the amortization of customer relationships acquired through our acquisition of Oakleaf in 2011 and by our Areas located in the Northern U.S.  

Restructuring  

During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized a total of $18 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $7 million was related to employee severance and benefit costs, including costs associated with our acquisitions of Greenstar and RCI and our 2012 restructurings. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized. We do not expect to incur any material charges associated with our past restructuring efforts in future periods.  

In July 2012, we announced a reorganization of operations, designed to streamline management and staff support and reduce our cost structure, while not disrupting our front-line operations. Principal organizational changes included removing the management layer of our four geographic Groups, each of which previously constituted a reportable segment, and consolidating and reducing the number of our geographic Areas through which we evaluate and oversee our Solid Waste subsidiaries from 22 to 17. This reorganization eliminated approximately 700 employee positions throughout the Company, including positions at both the management and support level. Voluntary separation arrangements were offered to many employees.  

During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized a total of $67 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $56 million were primarily related to employee severance and benefit costs associated with our July 2012 restructuring. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

Goodwill Impairments  

During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $509 million of goodwill impairment charges, primarily related to (i) $483 million associated with our Wheelabrator business; (ii) $10 million associated with our Puerto Rico operations and (iii) $9 million associated with a majority-owned waste diversion technology company. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $4 million and $1 million, respectively, related to certain of our non-Solid Waste operations. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Estimates and Assumptions — Asset Impairments and Notes 3 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these impairment charges as well as the accounting policy and analysis involved in identifying and calculating impairments.  

(Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items  

The following table summarizes the major components of “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

54  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized net charges of $464 million, primarily related to the following:  

   Ÿ    Landfill impairments — We recognized $262 million of charges to impair certain of our landfills, primarily as a result of our consideration of management’s decision in the fourth quarter of 2013 not to actively pursue expansion and/or development of such landfills. These charges were primarily associated with two landfills in our Eastern Canada Area, which are no longer accepting waste. We had previously concluded that receipt of permits for these landfills was probable. However, in connection with our asset rationalization and capital allocation analysis, which was influenced, in some cases, by our acquisition of RCI, we determined that the future costs to construct these landfills could be avoided as we are able to allocate disposal that would have gone to these landfills to other facilities and not materially impact operations. As a result of management’s decision, we determined that the landfill assets were no longer able to be recovered by the undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. As such, we wrote them down to their estimated fair values using a market approach considering the highest and best use of the assets.  

   Ÿ    Waste-to-energy impairments — We recognized $144 million of impairment charges relating to three waste-to-energy facilities, primarily as a result of closure or anticipated closure due to continued difficulty securing sufficient volumes to operate the plants at capacity and the prospect of additional capacity entering the market where the largest facility is located. We wrote down the carrying value of our facilities to their estimated fair value using a market approach.  

   Ÿ    Other impairments — The remainder of our 2013 charges were attributable to (i) $31 million of charges to impair various recycling assets; (ii) $20 million of charges to write down assets related to a majority-owned waste diversion technology company and (iii) a $15 million charge to write down the carrying value of an oil and gas property to its estimated fair value.  

   Ÿ    Divestitures — Partially offsetting these charges were $8 million of net gains on divestitures.  

During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized impairment charges aggregating $79 million, attributable to (i) $45 million of charges related to three facilities in our medical waste services business as a result of projected operating losses at each of these facilities; (ii) $20 million of charges related to investments in waste diversion technology companies and (iii) other charges to write down the carrying value of assets to their estimated fair values, all of which are individually immaterial.  

During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized impairment charges relating to two facilities in our medical waste services business, in addition to the three facilities impaired in 2012 discussed above, as a result of the closure of one site and continuing operating losses at the other site.  

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions — Asset Impairments for additional information related to the accounting policy and analysis involved in identifying and calculating impairments.  

In addition to the impairments discussed above, we are continuing to evaluate opportunities associated with the sale or discontinued use of underperforming assets or assets that may no longer meet our strategic objectives. Accordingly, it is possible that additional charges may be recorded as assets are sold or become held-for-sale.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Income from Operations  

The following table summarizes income from operations for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison.  

Items affecting the comparability of our results of operations during 2013 and 2012 include (i) restructuring charges recognized in 2012 associated with our July 2012 restructuring; (ii) subsequent benefits realized as a result of our July 2012 restructuring and ongoing cost containment efforts; (iii) increased labor costs due to merit increases effective in 2013 and 2011 and (iv) lower 2012 year-over-year incentive compensation payouts. Also affecting comparability, excluding Wheelabrator, was the reclassification of employees to Solid Waste from Other and Corporate and Other.  

Solid Waste — Our Solid Waste business income from operations declined $191 million when comparing 2013 with 2012, principally as a result of $279 million of net charges primarily related to impairments recognized in 2013. The most significant impairment charges were in our Eastern Canada Area, which is included in Tier 3, and were associated with the impairment of certain landfills as discussed above in (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items. Other significant items affecting the results of operations of our Solid Waste business during the three years ended December 31, 2013 are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Our base business benefited from (i) internal revenue growth, principally in our collection and disposal business and (ii) increased fuel cost recovery in 2013. These favorable variances were offset, in part, by net cost increases mainly driven by higher operating expenses including maintenance and repair and transfer and disposal in 2012;  

   Ÿ    Results from our recycling business were lower compared to prior year periods due primarily to (i) lower prices for commodities primarily affecting the 2012 period; (ii) higher processing costs driven in part by increased outbound quality control in 2013 and (iii) operating losses related to the acquired operations of Greenstar in 2013;  

   Ÿ    The accretive benefits of the RCI acquisition;  

   Ÿ    A decrease in bad debt expense during 2013 due primarily to the collection of receivables previously reserved during 2012, principally in Puerto Rico, which is included in Tier 3;  

   Ÿ    A charge for the withdrawal from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan in New England in 2012, which is included in Tier 2;  

   Ÿ    Incremental operating expenses due to a labor union dispute in the Pacific Northwest Area in 2012, which is included in Tier 3; and  

   Ÿ    A charge associated with a litigation loss in Southern California in 2011, which is included in Tier 2.  

56  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Wheelabrator — The decrease in income from operations of our Wheelabrator business for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 was largely driven by (i) $627 million of pre-tax charges to impair goodwill and certain waste-to-energy facilities as discussed above in Goodwill Impairments and (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items; (iii) higher labor costs and (iv) a disposal surcharge at one of our waste-to-energy facilities. The impact of these unfavorable items was offset, in part, by improved energy pricing and metal sales.  

The decrease in income from operations in 2012 as compared to 2011 was largely driven by (i) lower revenues due to the expiration of long-term contracts at certain of our waste-to-energy facilities; (ii) lower energy pricing at our merchant facilities; (iii) increased maintenance and repair costs, primarily due to differences in the timing and scope of planned maintenance activities and (iv) increased international development costs.  

Other — Our “Other” income from operations includes (i) those elements of our in-plant services, landfill gas-to-energy operations, and third-party subcontract and administration revenues managed by our Sustainability Services and Renewable Energy organizations, that are not included with the operations of our reportable segments; (ii) our recycling brokerage and electronic recycling services and (iii) the results of investments that we are making in expanded service offerings, such as portable self-storage and fluorescent lamp recycling, and in oil and gas producing properties. In addition, our “Other” income from operations reflects the results of (i) non-operating entities that provide financial assurance and self-insurance support for our Solid Waste business and (ii) reclasses to include the costs of our former geographic Group offices that, prior to our 2012 restructuring, were included in our operating segments.  

Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include:  

   Ÿ    Impairment charges recognized in 2013 and 2012 as discussed in Goodwill Impairments, Asset Impairments, (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items, Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities and Other, net;  

   Ÿ    Improved results from our organics and medical waste service businesses in 2013;  

   Ÿ    Losses in 2013 and 2012 from our efforts to integrate our strategic accounts business with Oakleaf, including the loss of certain strategic accounts. However, in 2013, we have experienced year-over-year improvements as a result of our system and process enhancements; and  

   Ÿ    A favorable adjustment to contingent consideration associated with the Greenstar acquisition, offset by higher administrative and restructuring costs associated with the acquired operations.  

Corporate and Other — Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include:  

   Ÿ    Lower year-over-year professional fees primarily due to higher consulting fees incurred during 2012 and 2011 in connection with the start-up phase of our cost savings programs;  

   Ÿ    Favorable adjustments in 2013 and unfavorable adjustments in both 2012 and 2011 related to changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to discount the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets;  

   Ÿ    Favorable adjustments to our estimated environmental remediation obligations in 2013 and 2011; and  

   Ÿ    Higher year-over-year risk management expense in 2013 and 2012, primarily due to increased overall costs associated with auto and general liability insurance.  

Interest Expense  

Our interest expense was $481 million in 2013, $488 million in 2012 and $481 million in 2011. During 2013, our debt balances increased by approximately $300 million, which can generally be attributed to the debt financing of our acquisition of RCI offset by debt repayments. In spite of this increase in debt, we reduced our interest costs by (i) reducing the interest rate periods of some of our tax-exempt bonds, allowing us to benefit  

57  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 from lower rates available for shorter-term remarketings; (ii) issuing new debt at lower fixed interest rates than debt repaid upon scheduled maturities and (iii) reducing the cost of our revolving credit facility by amending the credit agreement to provide for lower fees and rates. The increase in interest expense from 2011 to 2012 was primarily due to higher average debt balances, which were incurred to support acquisitions and investments in our long-term growth, and a decrease in the benefits provided by active and terminated interest rate swap agreements. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in interest due to (i) a decline in our weighted average borrowing rate achieved by refinancing matured debt with new borrowings at much lower fixed interest rates and (ii) the impacts that lower market interest rates had on the cost of certain of our tax-exempt debt.  

Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities  

We recognized “Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities” of $34 million in 2013, $46 million in 2012 and $31 million in 2011. These losses are primarily related to our noncontrolling interests in two limited liability companies established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties and a refined coal facility, as well as (i) noncontrolling investments made to support our strategic initiatives and (ii) unconsolidated trusts for final capping, closure, post-closure or environmental obligations. The tax impacts realized as a result of our investments in low-income housing properties and the refined coal facility are discussed below in Provision for Income Taxes. Refer to Notes 9 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these investments. The decrease in 2013 is primarily attributable to the recognition of a $10 million charge in 2012 related to a payment we made under a guarantee on behalf of an unconsolidated entity that went into liquidation. This investment was accounted for under the equity method.  

Other, net  

We recognized other, net expense of $74 million, $18 million and $4 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The expense in 2013 was impacted by impairment charges of $71 million relating to other-than-temporary declines in the value of investments in waste diversion technology companies accounted for under the cost method. We wrote down the carrying value of our investments to their fair value, which was primarily determined using an income approach based on estimated future cash flow projections obtained in the fourth quarter of 2013 and, to a lesser extent, third-party investors’ recent transactions in these securities. Partially offsetting these charges was a $4 million gain on the sale of a similar investment.  

The expense in 2012 was impacted by an impairment charge of $16 million related to an other-than-temporary decline in the value of an investment in a waste diversion technology company accounted for under the cost method. We wrote down the carrying value of our investment to its fair value based on other third-party investors’ recent transactions in these securities, which are considered to be the best evidence of fair value currently available. The remaining expenses recognized during the reported periods are primarily related to the impact of foreign currency translation.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

We recorded provisions for income taxes of $364 million in 2013, $443 million in 2012 and $511 million in 2011. These tax provisions resulted in an effective income tax rate of approximately 73.8%, 34.0%, and 33.6% for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is primarily affected by (i) variations in our income before income taxes; (ii) federal tax credits ; (iii) tax audit settlements; (iv) the realization of federal and state net operating loss and credit carry-forwards and (v) the tax implications of impairments. The impacts of these items are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Investment in Refined Coal Facility — Our refined coal facility investment and the resulting credits reduced our provision for income taxes by $20 million, $21 million and $17 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our refined coal facility investment.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   Ÿ    Investment in Low-Income Housing Properties — Our low-income housing investment and the resulting federal tax credits reduced our provision for income taxes by $38 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our low-income housing investment.  

   Ÿ    Tax Audit Settlements — The settlement of various tax audits resulted in reductions in income tax expense of $11 million, $10 million and $12 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

   Ÿ    State Net Operating Loss and Credit Carry-forwards — During 2013, 2012 and 2011, we recognized state net operating loss and credit carry-forwards resulting in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $16 million, $5 million and $4 million, respectively.  

   Ÿ    Federal Net Operating Loss Carry-Forwards — During 2012, we recognized additional federal net operating loss carry-forwards resulting in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $8 million.  

   Ÿ    Tax Implications of Impairments — During 2013 and 2012, the recording of impairments and the related income tax impacts resulted in permanent differences which increased our provision for income taxes by $235 million and $7 million, respectively. See Notes 6 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to asset impairments and unusual items.  

We expect our 2014 recurring effective tax rate will be approximately 35.0% based on projected income levels, federal tax credits and other permanent items.  

The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law on January 2, 2013 and included an extension for one year of the bonus depreciation allowance. As a result, 50% of qualifying capital expenditures on property placed in service before January 1, 2014 were depreciated immediately. The acceleration of deductions on 2013 qualifying capital expenditures resulting from the bonus depreciation provisions had no impact on our effective income tax rate for 2013. However, the ability to accelerate depreciation deductions decreased our 2013 cash taxes by approximately $70 million. Taking the accelerated tax depreciation will result in increased cash taxes in subsequent periods when the deductions for these capital expenditures would have otherwise been taken.  

Noncontrolling Interests  

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $32 million in 2013, $43 million in 2012 and $48 million in 2011. These amounts are principally related to third parties’ equity interests in two limited liability companies that own three waste-to-energy facilities operated by our Wheelabrator business. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the consolidation of these variable interest entities. The decrease in 2013 is primarily due to the net loss of $10 million attributable to noncontrolling interest holders associated with the $20 million impairment charge related to a majority-owned waste diversion technology company discussed above in (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Discussion and Analysis  

We owned or operated 262 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2013 and 264 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the expected remaining capacity, in cubic yards and tonnage of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills, is shown below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2013 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 46 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are seeking expansion permits at 25 of our landfills that meet the expansion criteria outlined in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions section above. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 49 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume.  

The number of landfills we own or operate as of December 31, 2013, segregated by their estimated operating lives (in years), based on remaining permitted and expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume, was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Landfills we operate through lease agreements are similar to landfills we own because we own the landfill’s operating permit and will operate the landfill for the entire lease term, which in many cases is the life of the landfill. We are usually responsible for the final capping, closure and post-closure obligations of the landfills we lease.  

 (b) For operating contracts, the property owner owns the permit and we operate the landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the landfill. However, we are generally responsible for final capping, closure and post-closure obligations under the operating contracts.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table reflects landfill capacity and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts reflected here relate to the combined impacts of (i) new expansions pursued; (ii) increases or decreases in the airspace being pursued for ongoing expansion efforts; (iii) adjustments for differences between the airspace being pursued and airspace granted and (iv) decreases due to decisions to no longer pursue expansion permits.  

 (b) We received expansion permits at 12 of our landfills during 2013 and six of our landfills during 2012, demonstrating our continued success in working with municipalities and regulatory agencies to expand the disposal capacity of our existing landfills.  

 (c) Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site-specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate; and operating practices. We continually focus on improving the utilization of airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials; and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training.  

The tons received at our landfills in 2013 and 2012 are shown below (tons in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In 2013, we acquired five landfills (two of which were previously operated through lease arrangements), closed four landfills and our contract expired at one landfill.  

61  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 (b) These amounts include 1.5 million tons at December 31, 2013 and 1.3 million tons at December 31, 2012, that were received at our landfills but were used for beneficial purposes and generally were redirected from the permitted airspace to other areas of the landfill. Waste types that are frequently identified for beneficial use include green waste for composting and clean dirt for on-site construction projects.  

When a landfill we own or operate receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, we generally transfer the management of the site, including any remediation activities, to our closed sites management group. As of December 31, 2013, our closed sites management group managed 212 closed landfills.  

Landfill Assets — We capitalize various costs that we incur to prepare a landfill to accept waste. These costs generally include expenditures for land (including the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property), permitting, excavation, liner material and installation, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. The cost basis of our landfill assets also includes estimates of future costs associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities, which are discussed further below.  

The following table reflects the total cost basis of our landfill assets and accumulated landfill airspace amortization as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2013 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As of December 31, 2013, we estimate that we will spend approximately $400 million in 2014, and approximately $800 million in 2015 and 2016 combined, for the construction and development of our landfill assets. The specific timing of landfill capital spending is dependent on future events, and spending estimates are subject to change due to fluctuations in landfill waste volumes, changes in environmental requirements and other factors impacting landfill operations.  

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Liabilities — As we accept waste at our landfills, we incur significant asset retirement obligations, which include liabilities associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities. These liabilities are accounted for in accordance with authoritative guidance associated with accounting for asset retirement obligations and are discussed in Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have liabilities for the remediation of properties that have incurred environmental damage, which generally was caused by operations or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired operations or a site. We recognize environmental remediation liabilities when we determine that the liability is probable and the estimated cost for the likely remedy can be reasonably estimated.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table reflects our landfill liabilities and our environmental remediation liabilities as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2013 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Landfill Costs and Expenses — As disclosed in the Operating Expenses section above, our landfill operating costs include interest accretion on asset retirement obligations, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs, and other landfill site costs. The following table summarizes these costs for each of the three years indicated (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The comparison of these costs for the reported periods has been significantly affected by accounting for changes in the risk-free discount rate that we use to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation liabilities and environmental remediation recovery assets, which is based on the rate for U.S. Treasury bonds with a term approximating the weighted-average period until settlement of the underlying obligations.  

Amortization of landfill airspace, which is included as a component of “Depreciation and amortization” expense, includes the following:  

   Ÿ    the amortization of landfill capital costs, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) estimated future costs for landfill development and construction required to develop our landfills to their remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and  

   Ÿ    the amortization of asset retirement costs arising from landfill final capping, closure and post-closure obligations, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) projected asset retirement costs.  

Amortization expense is recorded on a units-of-consumption basis, applying cost as a rate per ton. The rate per ton is calculated by dividing each component of the amortizable basis of a landfill by the number of tons needed to fill the corresponding asset’s airspace. Landfill capital costs and closure and post-closure asset retirement costs are generally incurred to support the operation of the landfill over its entire operating life and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using a landfill’s total airspace capacity. Final capping asset retirement costs are related to a specific final capping event and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using each discrete final capping event’s estimated airspace capacity. Accordingly, each landfill has multiple per-ton amortization rates.  

63  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table presents our landfill airspace amortization expense on a per-ton basis:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Different per-ton amortization rates are applied at each of our 267 landfills, and per-ton amortization rates vary significantly from one landfill to another due to (i) inconsistencies that often exist in construction costs and provincial, state and local regulatory requirements for landfill development and landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities and (ii) differences in the cost basis of landfills that we develop versus those that we acquire. Accordingly, our landfill airspace amortization expense measured on a per-ton basis can fluctuate due to changes in the mix of volumes we receive across the Company year-over-year.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet and landfill equipment; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at waste-to-energy and materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) final capping, closure and post-closure activities at our landfills; (vi) the repayment of debt and discharging of other obligations and (vii) capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments in support of our strategic growth plans. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through dividend payments, and we have also returned value to our shareholders through share repurchases.  

Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations  

The following is a summary of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

64  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Cash and cash equivalents — Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit and money market funds that invest in U.S. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. Our cash and cash equivalents have decreased as a result of the execution of our strategic growth plans, primarily due to acquisitions.  

Restricted trust and escrow accounts — Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist primarily of funds deposited for purposes of settling landfill final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations. These balances are primarily included within long-term “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Debt — We use long-term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax-exempt bonds to borrow on a long-term basis, but we also use other instruments and facilities when appropriate. The components of our long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2013 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2012 were primarily attributable to (i) net debt borrowings of $155 million and (ii) the impacts of accounting for other non-cash changes in our debt balances due to tax-exempt bond issuances, hedge accounting for interest rate swaps, foreign currency translation, interest accretion and capital leases and other debt obligations.  

As of December 31, 2013, we had (i) $481 million of debt maturing within the next 12 months, including $350 million of 5.0% senior notes that mature in March 2014 and $67 million of tax-exempt bonds; (ii) short-term borrowings and advances outstanding under credit facilities with long-term maturities, including $420 million of borrowings outstanding under the $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and $9 million of advances under our Canadian credit facility and (iii) $939 million of tax-exempt borrowings subject to repricing within the next 12 months. Based on our intent and ability to refinance a portion of this debt on a long-term basis as of December 31, 2013, including through use of forecasted available capacity under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, we have classified $1.1 billion of this debt as long-term and the remaining $726 million as current obligations.  

We have credit facilities in place to support our liquidity and financial assurance needs. The following table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit (in millions) at December 31, categorized by type of facility:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In July 2013, we amended and restated our revolving credit facility, increasing our total credit capacity to $2.25 billion and extending the term through July 2018. At December 31, 2013, we had $420 million of outstanding borrowings and $872 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $958 million.  

 (b) As of December 31, 2013, we had an aggregate committed capacity of $400 million under letter of credit facilities with terms extending through December 2016. This letter of credit capacity was fully utilized as of December 31, 2013.  

 (c) These letters of credit are outstanding under various arrangements that do not obligate the counterparty to provide a committed capacity.  

65  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Summary of Cash Flow Activity  

The following is a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows in 2013 as compared with 2012 are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Earnings change — Our 2013 earnings drove our improved net cash provided by operating activities in spite of a year-over-year decrease in income from operations, of $772 million. Our income from operations decline resulted from higher non-cash charges during 2013 of $949 million, associated principally with higher impairment charges. Absent these non-cash charges, we experienced higher earnings, which resulted in cash flow expansion.  

   Ÿ    Increased income tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, was approximately $144 million higher on a year-over-year basis. Note that, while pre-tax income on a year-over-year basis has declined $809 million, a significant portion of the 2013 impairments discussed above do not qualify for a tax benefit.  

   Ÿ    Forward starting swaps — During the third quarter of 2012, the forward-starting interest rate swaps associated with anticipated fixed-rate debt issuances were terminated contemporaneously with the actual issuance of senior notes in September 2012, and we paid cash of $59 million to settle the liabilities related to the swap agreements. This cash payment has been classified as a change in “Other liabilities” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   Ÿ    Termination of interest rate swaps — In April 2012, we elected to terminate our $1 billion interest rate swap portfolio associated with senior notes that were scheduled to mature from November 2012 through March 2018. Upon termination of the swaps, we received $72 million in cash for their fair value. The cash proceeds received from the termination of interest rate swap agreements have been classified as a change in “Other assets” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   Ÿ    Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was favorably impacted in 2013 by changes in our working capital accounts. Although our working capital changes may vary from year to year, they are typically driven by changes in accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments. Additionally, accruals for our annual incentive plan favorably affected our working capital comparison, driven by both higher incentive plan expense accruals in 2013 compared to 2012 and lower incentive plan payments in 2013 as compared to 2012.  

The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows in 2012 as compared with 2011 are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Decrease in earnings — Our income from operations, excluding depreciation and amortization, decreased by $109 million, on a year-over-year basis. Included in the $109 million decrease are the following items:  

   Ÿ    higher charges in 2012 related to impairments and restructuring costs of $89 million and $48 million, respectively;  

   Ÿ    lower non-cash charges attributable to equity-based compensation expense and interest accretion and discount rate adjustments on environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets of $16 million and $17 million, respectively; and  

66  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   Ÿ    lower bonus expense of approximately $90 million in 2012 when compared with 2011.  

   Ÿ    Increased income tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, was approximately $63 million higher on a year-over-year basis as a result of the decrease in the bonus depreciation allowance from a deduction of 100% of qualifying capital expenditures for property placed in service in 2011 to a deduction of 50% of qualifying capital expenditures for property placed in service in 2012. See Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items below for additional information.  

   Ÿ    Forward starting swaps — During the first quarter of 2011 and the third quarter of 2012, the forward-starting interest rate swaps associated with anticipated fixed-rate debt issuances were terminated contemporaneously with the actual issuance of senior notes in February 2011 and September 2012, and we paid cash of $9 million and $59 million, respectively, to settle the liabilities related to these swap agreements. These cash payments have been classified as a change in “Accounts payable and accrued liabilities” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   Ÿ    Termination of interest rate swaps — In April 2012, we elected to terminate our $1 billion interest rate swap portfolio associated with senior notes that were scheduled to mature from November 2012 through March 2018. Upon termination of the swaps, we received $72 million in cash for their fair value. The cash proceeds received from the termination of interest rate swap agreements have been classified as a change in “Other assets” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   Ÿ    Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was unfavorably impacted in 2012 by changes in our working capital accounts. Although our working capital changes may vary from year to year, they are typically driven by changes in accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable changes, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments.  

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Capital expenditures — We used $1,271 million during 2013 for capital expenditures, compared with $1,510 million in 2012 and $1,324 million in 2011. The decrease can generally be attributed to increased focus on capital spending management. The increase in capital expenditures in 2012 and 2011 is a result of our increased spending on compressed natural gas vehicles, related fueling infrastructure, and information technology infrastructure and growth initiatives, as well as our taking advantage of the bonus depreciation legislation. The year-over-year comparison of 2013 with 2012 was also affected by timing differences associated with cash payments for the previous years’ fourth quarter capital spending. Approximately $171 million of our fourth quarter 2012 spending was paid in cash in the first quarter of 2013 compared with approximately $244 million of our fourth quarter 2011 spending that was paid in the first quarter of 2012.  

   Ÿ    Proceeds from divestitures — Proceeds from divestitures (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets were $138 million in 2013, $44 million in 2012 and $36 million in 2011. These divestitures were made as part of our initiative to improve or divest certain underperforming and non-strategic operations. In 2013, our proceeds from divestitures included approximately $41 million related to investments in oil and gas producing properties and $14 million related to certain of our medical waste service operations and a transfer station in our Greater Mid-Atlantic Area. The remaining amount reported for 2013, as well as the proceeds in 2012 and 2011, generally relate to the sale of fixed assets.  

   Ÿ    Acquisitions — Our spending on acquisitions was $724 million in 2013 compared with $250 million in 2012 and $867 million in 2011. In 2013, our acquisitions consisted primarily of the recycling operations of Greenstar, for which we paid $170 million, and substantially all of the assets of RCI, for which we paid $481 million. The remainder of our 2013 acquisitions related to collection and energy services operations. In 2012, our acquisitions consisted primarily of interests in oil and gas producing properties acquired  

67  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

     through two transactions, for which we paid $94 million. In 2011, we paid $432 million, net of cash received of $4 million and inclusive of certain adjustments, to acquire Oakleaf, which provides outsourced waste and recycling services. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our acquisitions. We continue to focus on accretive acquisitions and growth opportunities that will enhance and expand our existing service offerings.  

   Ÿ    Investments in unconsolidated entities — We made $33 million of cash investments in unconsolidated entities during 2013, compared with $77 million in 2012 and $155 million in 2011. In 2013, our investments primarily related to waste diversion technology companies and additional capital contributions associated with our investment in a refined coal facility discussed below. In 2012, our investments primarily related to furthering our goal of expanding our service offerings and developing waste diversion technologies. In 2011, our investments included a $48 million payment made to acquire a noncontrolling interest in a limited liability company, which was established to invest in and manage a refined coal facility in North Dakota, and $107 million of investments primarily related to furthering our goal of growing into new markets by investing in greener technologies.  

   Ÿ    Net receipts from restricted funds — Net cash received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts, which are largely generated from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds for our capital needs, contributed $71 million to our investing activities in 2013 compared with $14 million in 2012 and $107 million in 2011. The significant decrease in cash received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts during 2012 was due to a decrease in tax-exempt borrowings.  

   Ÿ    Other — Net cash used by our other investing activities of $81 million during 2013 and $51 million during 2012 was primarily associated with the funding of notes receivable associated with Wheelabrator’s investments in Europe. Net cash provided by our other investing activities of $18 million during 2011 was primarily related to the receipt of a payment of $17 million associated with a note receivable from a prior year divestiture.  

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Share repurchases and dividend payments — For the periods presented, all share repurchases and dividend payments have been approved by our Board of Directors.  

We paid an aggregate of $683 million in cash dividends during 2013, compared with $658 million in 2012, and $637 million in 2011. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.34 in 2011, to $0.355 in 2012, and to $0.365 in 2013 and has been offset, in part, by a reduction in our common stock outstanding during 2011 and 2013 as a result of our share repurchase programs.  

We paid $239 million and $575 million for share repurchases in 2013 and 2011, respectively. We repurchased approximately 5 million shares of our common stock in 2013 and approximately 17 million shares of our common stock in 2011. We did not repurchase any shares during 2012.  

In February 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors expects to increase the quarterly dividend from $0.365 to $0.375 per share for dividends declared in 2014. However, all future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors, and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future business plans and other factors the Board of Directors may deem relevant. Additionally, in December 2012, the Board of Directors authorized up to $500 million in share repurchases, and we repurchased $239 million of our common stock pursuant to that authorization in 2013. In February 2014, the Board of Directors authorized up to $600 million in future share repurchases; this authorization both replaces and increases the amount that remained available for share repurchases under the prior authorization. Any future share repurchases will be made at the discretion of management and will depend on factors similar to those considered by the Board of Directors in making dividend declarations.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   Ÿ    Proceeds from the exercise of common stock options — The exercise of common stock options and the related excess tax benefits generated a total of $132 million of financing cash inflows during 2013 compared with $43 million during 2012 and $45 million during 2011. The increase in exercised stock options during 2013 is primarily due to the increase in the Company’s stock price combined with exercises in advance of stock option expiration dates.  

   Ÿ    Debt borrowings (repayments) — Net debt borrowings were $155 million, $122 million and $698 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The following summarizes our cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Due to the short-term maturities of the borrowings under these credit facilities, we have reported certain of these cash flows on a net basis.  

For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2011, non-cash activities included proceeds from tax-exempt borrowings, net of principal payments made directly from trust funds, of $99 million and $100 million, respectively. During 2012, we did not have any significant non-cash activities.  

   Ÿ    Other — Net cash used in other financing activities was $3 million, $2 million and $46 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These activities are primarily attributable to changes in our accrued liabilities for checks written in excess of cash balances due to the timing of cash deposits or payments. During 2013 and 2011, the cash used for these activities included $4 million and $7 million, respectively, of financing costs paid to amend and restate our U.S. revolving credit facility.  

69  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Summary of Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2013 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities for final capping, closure and post-closure will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills.  

 (b) The amounts reported here represent the scheduled principal payments related to our long-term debt, excluding related interest. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding interest rates.  

 (c) Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2013 include $939 million of tax-exempt bonds subject to repricing within the next 12 months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re-offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowing for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2013, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 (d) Our recorded debt obligations include non-cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods.  

 (e) Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

 (f) Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For contracts that require us to purchase minimum quantities of goods or services, we have estimated our future minimum obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. Accordingly, the amounts reported in the table are not necessarily indicative of our actual cash flow obligations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations.  

70  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items  

Bonus Depreciation — The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law on January 2, 2013 and included an extension for one year of the bonus depreciation allowance. As a result, 50% of qualifying capital expenditures on property placed in service before January 1, 2014 were depreciated immediately. The acceleration of deductions on 2013 qualifying capital expenditures resulting from the bonus depreciation provisions had no impact on our effective income tax rate for 2013 although it reduced our cash taxes.  

The acceleration of depreciation deductions related to qualifying capital expenditures in 2013 decreased our 2013 cash taxes by approximately $70 million. However, taking accelerated depreciation deductions results in increased cash taxes in subsequent periods when the depreciation deductions related to the capital expenditures would have otherwise been taken. Overall, the effect of all applicable years’ bonus depreciation programs results in increased cash taxes of $40 million in 2013. Separately, our tax payments in 2013 were $145 million higher than the tax payments made in 2012.  

Uncertain Tax Positions — We have liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are included as a component of long-term “Other liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because the Company does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. We anticipate that approximately $9 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, and $3 million of related deferred tax assets may be reversed within the next 12 months. The anticipated reversals are related to state tax items, none of which are material, and are expected to result from audit settlements or the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations period.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We have financial interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities as discussed in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2013, nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

Inflation  

While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of diesel fuel, have affected our income from operations margins in recent years, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, as of December 31, 2013, approximately 30% of our collection revenues are generated under long-term agreements with price adjustments based on various indices intended to measure inflation. Additionally, management’s estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.