PART II  

 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

INTRODUCTION  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.  

On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas business to shareholders, as discussed below. Accordingly, the results of operations of Duke Energy’s Natural Gas Transmission business segment and Duke Energy’s 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. Additionally, in April 2006, Duke Energy consummated the merger with Cinergy.  

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  

2007 Objectives. During 2007, management of Duke Energy focused on the following objectives, as outlined in the 2007 Charter:  

   •    Establish the identity and culture of the new Duke Energy, unifying its people, values, strategy, processes and systems;  

   •    Optimize its operations by focusing on safety, simplicity, accountability, inclusion, customer satisfaction, cost management and employee development;  

   •    Achieve public policy, regulatory and legislative outcomes that balance customers’ needs for reliable energy at competitive prices with shareholders’ expectation of superior returns;  

   •    Invest in energy infrastructure that meets rising customer demands for reliable energy in an energy efficient and environmentally sound manner; and  

   •    Achieve 2007 financial objectives and position Duke Energy to meet future growth targets.  

With the completion of the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007, Duke Energy began its first year as primarily an electric utility and met or exceeded most of its financial and non-financial objectives established for 2007. See “2007 Financial Results” below for discussion of Duke Energy’s 2007 financial results. Overall, during a year of record-breaking heat and an exceptional drought in the Carolinas, Duke Energy was able to meet its productivity challenges as the coal fleet experienced superior operational performance and three of Duke Energy’s nuclear units set new capacity factor records. Additionally, Duke Energy focused on regulatory and legislative initiatives that will allow Duke Energy to balance the need for cleaner, more efficient power sources with future energy needs of its customers.  

Planning for future capital expansion was a primary focus in 2007. Over the next five years, Duke Energy plans to spend approximately $23 billion on capital expenditures, with approximately $19 billion anticipated to support the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. Of this amount, approximately 25% of this capital is expected to go towards new pulverized coal, IGCC, gas and renewable generation resources to meet growing customer demand. During 2007 and early 2008, Duke Energy achieved important milestones with various state and federal regulators related to future capital projects. In the Carolinas, the NCUC approved the construction of one state of the art coal generation unit at Duke Energy Carolinas’ existing Cliffside Steam Station and Duke Energy Carolinas entered into an engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning services agreement with an affiliate of The Shaw Group, Inc. related to participation in the construction of Cliffside Unit 6, which has a current cost estimate of approximately $2.4 billion, which includes approximately $0.6 billion of AFUDC. In January 2008, the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources issued the final air permit for Cliffside Unit 6, which was the last regulatory hurdle before construction could begin. Additionally, in December 2007, CPCN’s to build two 620 MW combined cycle natural gas-fired generating facilities, one each at the existing Dan River and Buck steam stations, were filed with the NCUC. Duke Energy Carolinas is also continuing to seek all necessary regulatory approvals for the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station, including December 2007 filings of a COL application with the NRC, which was approved in February 2008, and an Integrated Resource Plan with the NCUC and PSCSC. Duke Energy Carolinas also currently plans to file a CPCN related to the nuclear project in South Carolina during 2008. Although these actions are necessary steps as management continues to pursue the option of building a new nuclear plant, submitting these applications does not commit Duke Energy Carolinas to build a nuclear unit. In Indiana, the IURC issued an order in November 2007 granting Duke Energy Indiana CPCN’s for the proposed 630 MW IGCC power plant at the Edwardsport Generating Station, which has an estimated cost of construction of approximately $2 billion, including AFUDC. The order also approved the timely recovery of costs related to the project. In January 2008, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management approved the air permit for the project, and major construction is expected to begin in the Spring of 2008. Duke Energy is assessing the potential for a joint owner for the facility, but could retain all of the plant capacity if a joint owner is not identified.  

The continued development of renewable energy as part of Duke Energy’s generating portfolio was another primary focus of management during 2007. Climate change concerns, as well as the high price of oil, have sparked increased support for renewable   

39  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 energy legislation at both the federal and state level. For example, the new energy legislation passed in North Carolina in 2007 establishes a renewable portfolio standard for electric utilities at 3% of output by 2012, rising gradually to 12.5% by 2021. In response to this legislation, during 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued Request for Proposals (RFP) seeking bids for power generate from renewable energy sources, including sun, wind, water, organic matter and other sources. A similar RFP has also been issued by Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana. Additionally, in support of a strategy to increase its renewable energy portfolio in its unregulated businesses, Duke Energy acquired the wind power development assets of Energy Investor Funds from Tierra Energy in May 2007. Three of the development projects acquired from Tierra Energy are anticipated to be in commercial operation in late 2008 or 2009 and Duke Energy has already contracted to purchase wind turbines that are capable of generating approximately 240 MW when placed in commercial operation.  

Management is also making progress on increasing the role energy efficiency will have in meeting customers’ growing energy needs. Energy efficiency is considered a “fifth fuel” in the portfolio available to meet customers’ growing needs for electricity, along with coal, nuclear, natural gas and renewable energy. During 2007, new energy efficiency plans were filed in North Carolina, South Carolina and Indiana and energy efficiency programs were expanded in both Kentucky and Ohio. The energy efficiency plans filed in North Carolina, South Carolina and Indiana are save-a-watt programs that would compensate Duke Energy for verified reductions in energy use and be available to all customer groups. The PSCSC and IURC have scheduled evidentiary hearings in 2008 to review these filings for South Carolina and Indiana, respectively. In advance of the evidentiary hearing held February 5-6, 2008 related to the South Carolina energy efficiency filing, a settlement agreement was reached with the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff, Wal-Mart, Piedmont Natural Gas and the South Carolina Energy Users Committee. This agreement calls for Duke Energy Carolinas to bear the cost of the programs and allow for recovery of 85% of the avoided generation charges. An evidentiary hearing is expected to be scheduled by the NCUC for North Carolina in 2008.  

Duke Energy also participated in the development of energy legislation in various jurisdictions in 2007. Both North Carolina and South Carolina passed comprehensive energy legislation during 2007. This legislation includes provisions that will allow Duke Energy to recover new plant financing costs during the construction phase and allows recovery of costs of certain reagents used in emission removal. The North Carolina legislation also includes a renewable energy portfolio standard discussed above. Additionally, the Ohio Senate introduced Senate Bill 221 (SB 221), which proposes a comprehensive change to Ohio’s 1999 electric energy industry restructuring legislation. If enacted, SB 221 provides a workable framework for the development of new technologies, the building of new generation, environmental improvement, as well as energy efficiency. SB 221 is currently pending before the Ohio House of Representatives and could be enacted during the first quarter of 2008.  

In the fourth quarter of 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas completed its first comprehensive rate case in North Carolina since 1991. Duke Energy Carolinas reached a settlement with interveners and the NCUC approved it. Overall, the rate settlement reduces customer rates in North Carolina without significantly impacting current earning levels. Although earnings levels will not be significantly impacted as a result of the rate settlement, future cash flows will be reduced as a result of a reduction in customer rates effective January 1, 2008. The decrease in revenues from the decrease in customer rates will be mostly offset by the discontinuance of amortization of clean air expenditures. Future clean air expenditures of approximately $700 million through 2010 will be capitalized as a component of rate base. Additionally, the PUCO affirmed Duke Energy Ohio’s RSP, which had been remanded by the Ohio Supreme Court to the PUCO for further consideration. The ruling maintained the current price and provided for continuation of the existing rate components, including the recovery of costs related to new pollution control equipment and capacity costs associated with power purchase contracts to meet customer demand, but provided customers an enhanced opportunity to avoid certain pricing components if they are served by a competitive supplier.  

Overall, the regulatory and legislative accomplishments during 2007 have positioned Duke Energy well for 2008 and beyond.  

2007 Financial Results. For the year-ended December 31, 2007, Duke Energy reported net income of $1,500 million and basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.19 and $1.18, respectively, as compared to reported net income of $1,863 million and basic and diluted EPS of $1.59 and $1.57, respectively, for the year-ended December 31, 2006. EPS (basic and diluted) decreased for 2007 as compared to 2006, primarily due to lower net income, which is discussed below, and 2007 earnings per share being impacted by the dilutive effect of the issuance of approximately 313 million shares in April 2006 related to the Cinergy merger.  

Income from continuing operations was $1,522 million for 2007, as compared to $1,080 million for 2006 due largely to the inclusion of Cinergy operations for a full year in 2007 versus nine months in the prior year. Total reportable segment EBIT increased from $2,553 million to $3,009 million. An increase for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas of $494 million was primarily related to $218 million of first quarter 2007 EBIT contributed by Cinergy’s regulated Midwest operations for which there was zero in the comparable period of the prior year, as well as improved results in both the Carolinas and Midwest in 2007 due largely to favorable weather and additional long-term wholesale contracts, partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expense. Segment EBIT for Commercial Power increased   

40  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 $231 million due to improved retail electric margins resulting largely from timing of fuel and purchased power recoveries, higher overall prices and favorable weather, favorable mark-to-market results, and improved results from the Midwest gas-fired assets as a result of higher generation and capacity revenues, partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expense. Higher segment results at International Energy of $225 million are primarily a result of higher equity earnings at National Methanol Company (NMC), higher prices in Latin America and favorable foreign currency exchange impacts, as well as the absence of a $100 million litigation reserve and a $50 million impairment charge recorded in 2006. Segment results for Crescent decreased from $532 million in 2006 to $38 million in 2007, reflecting the $246 million gain on sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent and the subsequent reduction in ownership from 100% to an effective 50% in September 2006, two large sales that occurred in the second quarter of 2006, lower residential developed lot sales in 2007 and an impairment charge on certain residential developments in 2007. In addition, losses at Other decreased as a result of lower costs related to captive insurance, lower merger costs, lower corporate governance costs and a benefit in 2007 related to contract settlement negotiations, partially offset by convertible debt costs of approximately $21 million related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy.  

In addition to the increase in total reportable segment and Other EBIT, income from continuing operations for 2007 as compared to 2006 was negatively impacted by higher income tax expense from continuing operations and higher interest expense. Income tax expense from continuing operations increased as a result of higher pre-tax income and a higher effective tax rate in 2007 compared to 2006 largely due to certain favorable tax matters in 2006 that lowered the effective tax rate in 2006. Interest expense increased due primarily to the debt assumed from Cinergy. Partially offsetting these unfavorable results was higher interest income, largely as a result of increased earnings from higher average invested cash and short-term investment balances during 2007 as compared to 2006, including a $19 million favorable impact related to the inclusion of amounts for legacy Cinergy for the first quarter of 2007 with no comparable amount in 2006.  

More than offsetting the increase in income from continuing operations was a decrease in income from discontinued operations for 2007 as compared to 2006, primarily attributable to the classification of the results of operations for the natural gas businesses spun off on January 2, 2007 as discontinued operations for periods prior to the spin-off.  

Duke Energy’s Direction in 2008 and Beyond. Management of Duke Energy is focusing on the following objectives in 2008 and beyond:  

   •    Pursue a balanced approach to meeting future energy needs by pursuing new supply options, including energy efficiency, coal gasification, advanced pulverized coal, nuclear, natural gas-fired generation and renewable energy, while considering whether they are available, affordable, reliable and clean;  

   •    Accept the reality of a carbon-constrained world and pursue low-carbon and no-carbon solutions for meeting future energy needs;  

   •    Finding a path to success during this era of rising costs by striving to control costs, run the businesses efficiently and provide excellent customer service; and  

   •    Meet 2008 financial objectives and, for the long-term, deliver on its promise to shareholders by steadily growing earnings and dividends  

The majority of future earnings are anticipated to be contributed from U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, which consists of Duke Energy’s regulated businesses that currently own a capacity of approximately 28,000 megawatts of generation. The regulated generation portfolio consists of a mix of coal, nuclear, natural gas and hydroelectric generation, with the substantial majority of all of the sales of electricity coming from coal and nuclear generation facilities. While the drought conditions in the Carolinas did not significantly impact earnings in 2007, continued or sustained drought conditions could have a negative impact on earnings in 2008. Commercial Power has net capacity of approximately 8,000 megawatts of unregulated generation, of which approximately 4,000 megawatts serves retail customers under the RSP in Ohio. Approximately 75% of International Energy’s net capacity of approximately 4,000 megawatts of installed generation capacity in Latin America consists of base load hydroelectric capacity that carries a low level of dispatch risk; in addition, for 2008 over 90% of International Energy’s contractible capacity in Latin America is either currently contracted or receives a system capacity payment.  

As mentioned earlier, during the five-year period from 2008 to 2012, Duke Energy anticipates total capital expenditures of approximately $23 billion. Annual capital expenditures are currently estimated at approximately $5 billion in 2008-2011 and approximately $3 billion in 2012. These expenditures are principally related to expansion plans, maintenance costs, environmental spending related to Clean Air Act requirements and nuclear fuel. Current estimates are that Duke Energy’s regulated generation capacity will need to increase by approximately 7,700 megawatts over the next ten years, with the majority being in the Carolinas. Duke Energy is committed to adding base load capacity at a reasonable price while modernizing the current generation facilities by replacing older, less efficient plants with cleaner, more efficient plants. Significant expansion projects include the new IGCC plant at Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport Generating Station, a new 800 MW coal unit at Duke Energy Carolinas’ existing Cliffside facility in North Carolina and new gas-fired generation units at Duke Energy Carolinas’ existing Dan River and Buck Steam Stations, as well as other additions due to system growth.   

41  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 Additionally, Duke Energy is evaluating the potential construction of a new nuclear power plant in Cherokee County, South Carolina. Costs related to environmental spending are expected to decrease over the five-year period as the upgrades to comply with the new environmental regulations are completed.  

Duke Energy anticipates capital expenditures at Commercial Power will primarily relate to growth opportunities, such as renewable energy generation projects and environmental control equipment, as well as maintenance on existing plants. Capital expenditures at International Energy, which will be funded with cash held or raised by International Energy, will primarily be for strategic growth opportunities, such as new hydro plants in Brazil, as well as maintenance on existing plants. Duke Energy does not anticipate any additional capital investment related to its investment in the Crescent JV.  

Duke Energy does not currently anticipate funding capital expenditures with the issuance of common equity in the foreseeable future, but rather through the use of available cash and cash equivalents as well as the issuance of incremental debt.  

As the majority of Duke Energy’s anticipated future capital expenditures are related to its regulated operations, a risk to Duke Energy is the ability to recover costs related to such expansion in a timely manner. Energy legislation passed in North Carolina and South Carolina in 2007 provides, among other things, mechanisms for Duke Energy to recover financing costs for new nuclear or coal base load generation during the construction phase. In Indiana, Duke Energy has received approval to recover its development costs for the new IGCC plant at the Edwardsport Generating Station. Duke Energy has received approval for nearly $260 million of future federal tax credits related to costs to be incurred for the modernization of the Cliffside facility as well as the IGCC plant in Indiana. In addition, Duke Energy has received general assurances from the NCUC that the North Carolina allocable portion of development costs associated with the William States Lee III nuclear station will be recoverable through a future rate case proceeding as long as the costs are deemed prudent and reasonable. Duke Energy does not anticipate beginning construction of the proposed nuclear power plant without adequate assurance of cost recovery from the state legislators or regulators.  

In response to concerns over climate change, the U.S. Congress has been discussing various proposals to reduce or cap CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions. Any legislation enacted as a result of these efforts could involve a market based cap and trade program. In anticipation, Duke Energy is increasing focus on renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives in an effort to reduce emissions. In addition to the wind assets purchased during 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana have issued RFP’s for renewable energy sources that can be operational as early as 2012. Additionally, new energy efficiency plans were filed in North Carolina, South Carolina and Indiana and energy efficiency programs were expanded in both Kentucky and Ohio. Energy efficiency filings are expected to be made in Ohio and Kentucky in 2008. The energy efficiency plans filed in North Carolina, South Carolina and Indiana are save-a-watt programs that would compensate Duke Energy for verified reductions in energy use and be available to all customer groups. The PSCSC and IURC have scheduled evidentiary hearings in 2008 to review these filings for South Carolina and Indiana, respectively. In advance of the evidentiary hearing held February 5-6, 2008 related to the South Carolina energy efficiency filing, a settlement agreement was reached with the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff, Wal-Mart, Piedmont Natural Gas and the South Carolina Energy Users Committee. This agreement calls for Duke Energy Carolinas to bear the cost of the programs and allow for recovery of 85% of the avoided generation charges. An evidentiary hearing is expected to be scheduled by the NCUC for North Carolina in 2008.  

In summary, Duke Energy is coordinating its future capital expenditure requirements with regulatory initiatives in order to ensure adequate and timely cost recovery while continuing to provide low cost energy to its customers.  

Economic Factors for Duke Energy’s Business. Duke Energy’s business model provides diversification between stable, less cyclical businesses like U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, and the traditionally higher-growth and more cyclical energy businesses like Commercial Power and International Energy. Additionally, Crescent’s portfolio strategy is diversified between residential, commercial and multi-family development. All of Duke Energy’s businesses can be negatively affected by sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy, including low market prices of commodities, all of which are beyond Duke Energy’s control, and could impair Duke Energy’s ability to meet its goals for 2008 and beyond.  

Declines in demand for electricity as a result of economic downturns would reduce overall electricity sales and lessen Duke Energy’s cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production and, thus, consumption of electricity. A portion of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ business risk is mitigated by its regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of fuel costs under fuel adjustment clauses.  

If negative market conditions should persist over time and estimated cash flows over the lives of Duke Energy’s individual assets do not exceed the carrying value of those individual assets, asset impairments may occur in the future under existing accounting rules and diminish results of operations. A change in management’s intent about the use of individual assets (held for use versus held for sale) or a change in fair value of assets held for sale could also result in impairments or losses.  

42  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy’s 2008 goals can also be substantially at risk due to the regulation of its businesses. Duke Energy’s businesses in the United States are subject to regulation on the federal and state level. Regulations, applicable to the electric power industry, have a significant impact on the nature of the businesses and the manner in which they operate. Changes to regulations are ongoing and Duke Energy cannot predict the future course of changes in the regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that any future changes will have on its business.  

Duke Energy’s earnings are impacted by fluctuations in commodity prices. Exposure to commodity prices generates higher earnings volatility in the unregulated businesses as there are timing differences as to when such costs are recovered in rates. To mitigate these risks, Duke Energy enters into derivative instruments to effectively hedge known exposures.  

Additionally, Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. Changes in these factors are difficult to predict and may impact Duke Energy’s future results.  

Duke Energy also relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not met by cash flow from operations. An inability to access capital at competitive rates could adversely affect Duke Energy’s ability to implement its strategy. Market disruptions or a downgrade of Duke Energy’s credit rating may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to access one or more sources of liquidity.  

For further information related to management’s assessment of Duke Energy’s risk factors, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Consolidated Operating Revenues  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. Consolidated operating revenues for 2007 increased $2,113 million, compared to 2006. This change was driven primarily by approximately $1,408 million of revenues generated during the first quarter of 2007 related to legacy Cinergy operations (reflected in the results for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power) for which no revenues were recognized in the comparable period of the prior year since the Cinergy merger occurred effective April 2006. Also contributing to the increase in revenues were:  

   •    A $576 million increase at U. S. Franchised Electric and Gas due primarily to increased fuel revenue from retail customers, higher sales volume as a result of favorable weather, increased wholesale power revenues due to increased sales volumes primarily due to additional long-term wholesale contracts in 2007, increase in retail rates and rate riders primarily related to new electric base rates implemented in the first quarter of 2007 for Duke Energy Kentucky and the recovery of environmental compliance costs from retail customers in Indiana, and an increase related to the sharing of anticipated merger savings through rate decrement riders which was substantially completed prior to the third quarter of 2007;  

   •    A $208 million increase at Commercial Power due primarily to increased retail electric revenues principally related to the timing of collections on fuel and purchased power and increased retail demand resulting from favorable weather, and increased wholesale revenues due primarily to higher generation volumes resulting from favorable weather and higher tolling and capacity revenues, partially offset by net unfavorable mark-to-market results on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts; and  

   •    A $117 million increase at International Energy due primarily to higher sales prices in Brazil and Peru, and favorable foreign currency exchange impacts compared to the prior year, primarily in Brazil.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $221 million decrease at Crescent as a result of the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006 and the subsequent accounting for Duke Energy’s investment in Crescent as an equity method investment.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005. Consolidated operating revenues for 2006 increased $3,701 million, compared to 2005. This change was driven by:  

   •    An approximate $3,820 million increase due to the merger with Cinergy; and  

   •    A $216 million increase at International Energy due primarily to higher revenues in Peru from increased ownership and resulting consolidation of Aguaytia, higher energy prices in El Salvador, favorable results in Brazil, primarily foreign exchange rate impacts and higher electricity volumes and prices in Argentina.  

43  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $274 million decrease at Crescent due primarily to the deconsolidation of Crescent, effective September 7, 2006 and softening in the residential real estate market; and  

   •    A $69 million decrease in Other due primarily to the sale of Duke Project Services Group, Inc. (DPSG) in February 2006 and a prior year mark-to-market gain related to former DENA’s hedge discontinuance in the Southeast.  

For a more detailed discussion of operating revenues, see the segment discussions that follow.  

Consolidated Operating Expenses  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. Consolidated operating expenses for 2007 increased $1,012 million, compared to 2006. This change was driven primarily by an approximate $1,160 million of expenses incurred during the first quarter of 2007 related to legacy Cinergy operations (reflected in the results for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power) for which no expenses were incurred in the comparable period of the prior year since the Cinergy merger occurred effective April 2006. Excluding the above, consolidated operating expenses increased as a result of the following:  

   •    A $317 million increase at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas due primarily to increased operating and maintenance expenses driven by higher wage and benefits costs, including increased short-term incentive costs, maintenance costs at fossil and nuclear generating plants, increased fuel expense driven by higher demand from retail customers resulting from favorable weather, and an increase in depreciation due to additional capital spending; and  

   •    An $18 million increase at Commercial Power due primarily to increased fuel expense and operating and maintenance expenses from the Midwest gas-fired generation assets due primarily to increased generation volumes in 2007 compared to 2006 and higher fuel and purchased power expenses due to increased retail sales volumes and plant outages in 2007, partially offset by net mark-to-market gains on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts in 2007 compared to net losses in 2006 and lower losses from sales of fuel.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $240 million decrease in Other due primarily to a 2006 charge and 2007 credits related to contract settlement negotiations, lower costs to achieve related to the Cinergy merger, lower costs related to Duke Energy’s captive insurance company driven by lower charges for mutual insurance exit obligations, and lower governance and other corporate costs, partially offset by a donation to the Duke Foundation;  

   •    A $160 million decrease at Crescent as a result of the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006 and the subsequent accounting for Duke Energy’s investment in Crescent as an equity method investment; and  

   •    A $62 million decrease at International Energy due primarily to a prior year reserve related to a settlement made in conjunction with the Citrus Trading Corporation (Citrus) litigation, a contract dispute between Citrus and Spectra Energy LNG Sales Inc. (formerly known as Duke Energy LNG Sales Inc.), an impairment charge on notes receivable from Campeche recorded in 2006, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange impacts, increased purchased power, general and administrative costs in Brazil, and higher fuel consumption in Guatemala due to higher generation and higher maintenance costs as a result of unplanned outages.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005. Consolidated operating expenses for 2006 increased $3,624 million, compared to 2005. The change was primarily driven by:  

   •    An approximate $3,326 million increase due to the merger with Cinergy;  

   •    A $312 million increase at International Energy due primarily to higher costs in Peru, driven primarily by increased ownership and resulting consolidation of Aguaytia, a reserve related to a settlement made in conjunction with the Citrus litigation, higher fuel prices and increased consumption in El Salvador, unfavorable exchange rates, increased regulatory fees and higher purchased power costs in Brazil and an impairment charge on notes receivable from a Mexican investment recorded in 2006;  

   •    A $132 million increase in Other due primarily to costs to achieve the Cinergy merger, a reserve charge related to contract settlement negotiations, partially offset by decreases due to the continued wind-down of the former DENA businesses; and  

   •    An approximate $115 million increase at Duke Energy Carolinas driven primarily by increased fuel expenses, due primarily to higher coal costs and increased purchase power expense resulting primarily from less generation availability during 2006 as a result of outages at base load stations, partially offset by lower regulatory amortization, due primarily to reduced amortization of compliance costs related to clean air legislation, and lower operating and maintenance expense, due primarily to a December 2005 ice storm.  

44  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $239 million decrease at Crescent due primarily to the deconsolidation of Crescent, effective September 7, 2006 and softening in the residential real estate market.  

For a more detailed discussion of operating expenses, see the segment discussions that follow.  

Consolidated Gains on Sales of Investments in Commercial and Multi-Family Real Estate  

Consolidated gains on sales of investments in commercial and multi-family real estate were zero in 2007, as a result of the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006 and the subsequent accounting for Duke Energy’s investment in Crescent as an equity method investment, $201 million in 2006, and $191 million in 2005. The gain in 2006 was driven primarily by pre-tax gains from the sale of two office buildings at Potomac Yard in Washington, D.C. and a gain on a land sale at Lake Keowee in northwestern South Carolina. The gain in 2005 was driven primarily by pre-tax gains from the sales of surplus legacy land, particularly a large sale in Lancaster, South Carolina, commercial land sales, including a large sale near Washington, D.C. and multi-family project sales in North Carolina and Florida.  

Consolidated (Losses) Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net  

Consolidated (losses) gains on sales of other assets and other, net was a loss of $5 million for 2007, a gain of $223 million for 2006, and a loss of $55 million for 2005. The loss in 2007 was due primarily to losses related to Commercial Power’s sale of emission allowances. The gain in 2006 was due primarily to the pre-tax gains resulting from the sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent, creating a joint venture between Duke Energy and MSREF (approximately $246 million), partially offset by Commercial Power’s losses on sales of emission allowances (approximately $29 million). The loss in 2005 was due primarily to net losses at Commercial Power, principally the termination of DENA structured power contracts in the Southeast region (approximately $75 million).  

Consolidated Operating Income   

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. For 2007, consolidated operating income increased $672 million compared to 2006. Increased operating income was partially driven by an approximate $237 million favorable impact generated during the first quarter of 2007 related to legacy Cinergy operations (reflected in the results for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power) for which there was zero in the comparable period of the prior year since the Cinergy merger occurred effective April 2006, as well as factors discussed above.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005. For 2006, consolidated operating income increased $365 million, compared to 2005. Increased operating income was primarily related to approximately $465 million of operating income generated by legacy Cinergy in 2006 as a result of the merger and an approximate $250 million gain in 2006 on the sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent, partially offset by approximately $128 million of cost in 2006 to achieve the Cinergy merger and approximately $165 million of charges in 2006 related to settlements and contract negotiations.  

Other drivers to operating income are discussed above. For more detailed discussions, see the segment discussions that follow.  

Consolidated Other Income and Expenses  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. For 2007, consolidated other income and expenses increased $74 million, compared to 2006. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in equity earnings of $34 million due primarily to the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006 and the subsequent accounting for Crescent as an equity method investment and increased equity earnings from International Energy of approximately $22 million primarily related to its investment in National Methanol Company (NMC) primarily as a result of higher margins, approximately $34 million increase in interest income, largely as a result of increased earnings from higher average invested cash and short-term investment balances during 2007 as compared to 2006 (of which approximately $19 million of the increase relates to interest income of legacy Cinergy in the first quarter 2007 with no comparable amount in 2006), partially offset by lower interest income related to income taxes resulting primarily from favorable income tax settlements in 2006, a $17 million impairment charge at International Energy recorded during the second quarter of 2006, and convertible debt costs of approximately $21 million related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005. For 2006, consolidated other income and expenses increased $137 million, compared to 2005. The increase was due primarily to an increase of approximately $125 million of interest income resulting primarily from favorable income tax settlements in 2006.  

45  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Consolidated Interest Expense  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. For 2007, consolidated interest expense increased $53 million, compared to 2006. This increase was due primarily to the debt assumed from the merger with Cinergy, higher interest on debt in Brazil and interest expense recorded on tax items primarily as a result of the adoption of FIN No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (FIN 48), partially offset by debt reductions and financing activities and an increase in the debt component of AFUDC resulting from increased capital spending.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005. For 2006, consolidated interest expense increased $251 million, compared to 2005. This increase is primarily attributable to the increase in long-term debt as a result of the merger with Cinergy (approximately $227 million impact).  

Consolidated Minority Interest Expense  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. For 2007, consolidated minority interest expense decreased $11 million, compared to 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower earnings at Aguaytia in 2007 and the deconsolidation of Crescent.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005. For 2006, consolidated minority interest expense decreased $11 million, compared to 2005. This decrease was due primarily to lower earnings at Crescent’s LandMar affiliate in Florida, as a result of softening in the residential real estate market.  

Consolidated Income Tax Expense from Continuing Operations  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. For 2007, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations increased $262 million, compared to 2006. The increase is primarily the result of higher pre-tax income in 2007 as compared to 2006. Additionally, the effective tax rate increased for the year ended December 31, 2007 (32%) compared to 2006 (29%), due primarily to prior year favorable tax settlements on research and development costs and nuclear decommissioning costs, and tax benefits related to the impairment of an investment in Bolivia, partially offset by an increase in the manufacturing deduction in 2007 and higher foreign taxes accrued in 2006.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005. For 2006, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations increased $75 million, compared to 2005. This increase primarily resulted from higher pre-tax earnings, partially offset by favorable tax settlements on research and development costs and nuclear decommissioning costs, and tax benefits related to the impairment of an investment in Bolivia.  

Consolidated (Loss) Income from Discontinued Operations, net of tax  

Consolidated (loss) income from discontinued operations was a loss of $22 million for 2007, income of $783 million for 2006, and income of $935 million for 2005. The 2006 and 2005 amounts include the after-tax earnings of Duke Energy’s natural gas businesses that were spun off to shareholders on January 2, 2007. The 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounts include results of operations and gains (losses) on dispositions related primarily to former DENA’s assets and contracts outside the Midwestern and Southeastern United States as a result of the 2005 decision to exit substantially all of former DENA’s remaining assets and contracts outside the Midwestern United States and certain contractual positions related to the Midwestern assets, which are included in Other. The 2007 and 2006 amounts also include Cinergy commercial marketing and trading operations and synfuel operations, which are both included in Commercial Power. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale”.  

The 2007 amount is primarily comprised of an after-tax loss of approximately $18 million associated with former DENA contract settlements, an after-tax loss of approximately $8 million related to Cinergy commercial marketing and trading operations and after-tax earnings of approximately $23 million related to Commercial Power’s synfuel operations.  

The 2006 amount is primarily comprised of after-tax earnings of approximately $953 million related to the natural gas businesses, approximately $140 million of after-tax losses associated with certain contract terminations or sales at former DENA, and the recognition of approximately $17 million of after-tax losses associated with exiting the Cinergy commercial marketing and trading operations.  

The 2005 amount is primarily comprised of after-tax earnings of approximately $1,623 million related to the natural gas businesses, which includes $1,245 million of pre-tax gains on sales of equity investments, primarily associated with the sale of TEPPCO GP and Duke Energy’s limited partner interest in TEPPCO LP and an approximate $575 million gain resulting from the DEFS disposition transaction, an approximate $550 million non-cash, after-tax charge (approximately $900 million pre-tax) for the impairment of assets, and the dis-  

46  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 continuance of hedge accounting and the discontinuance of the normal purchase/normal sale exception for certain positions as a result of the decision to exit substantially all of former DENA’s remaining assets and contracts outside the Midwestern United States and certain contractual positions related to the Midwestern assets. Additionally, during 2005, Duke Energy recognized after-tax losses of approximately $250 million (approximately $400 million pre-tax) as the result of selling certain gas transportation and structured contracts related to the former DENA operations. These charges were offset by the recognition of after-tax gains of approximately $125 million (approximately $200 million pre-tax) related to the recognition of deferred gains in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) related to discontinued cash flow hedges related to the former DENA operations.  

Consolidated Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle, net of tax and minority interest  

During 2005, Duke Energy recorded a net-of-tax and minority interest cumulative effect adjustment for a change in accounting principle of $4 million as a reduction in earnings. The change in accounting principle related to the implementation of FIN No. 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations.  

Segment Results  

Management evaluates segment performance based on earnings before interest and taxes from continuing operations, after deducting minority interest expense related to those profits (EBIT). On a segment basis, EBIT excludes discontinued operations, represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating) before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the minority interest expense related to those profits. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed centrally by Duke Energy, so the gains and losses on foreign currency remeasurement, and interest and dividend income on those balances, are excluded from the segments’ EBIT. Management considers segment EBIT to be a good indicator of each segment’s operating performance from its continuing operations, as it represents the results of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.  

See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments,” for a discussion of Duke Energy’s segment structure.  

As discussed above and in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale” during the third quarter of 2005, the Board of Directors of Duke Energy authorized and directed management to execute the sale or disposition of substantially all former DENA’s remaining assets and contracts outside the Midwestern United States and certain contractual positions related to the Midwestern assets. As a result of this exit plan, the continuing operations of the former DENA segment (which primarily include the operations of the Midwestern generation assets, former DENA’s remaining Southeastern operations related to assets which were disposed of in 2004, the remaining operations of DETM, and certain general and administrative costs) have been reclassified to Commercial Power, except for DETM, which is in Other.  

Duke Energy’s segment EBIT may not be comparable to a similarly titled measure of another company because other entities may not calculate EBIT in the same manner. Segment EBIT is summarized in the following table, and detailed discussions follow.  

EBIT by Business Segment  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

47  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 (a) Amounts associated with former DENA’s operations are included in Other for all periods presented, except for the Midwestern generation and Southeast operations, which are reflected in Commercial Power.  

 (b) In September 2006, Duke Energy completed a joint venture transaction of Crescent. As a result, Crescent segment data includes Crescent as a consolidated entity for periods prior to September 7, 2006 and as an equity method investment for periods subsequent to September 7, 2006.  

 (c) Interest income and other includes foreign currency transaction gains and losses and additional minority interest expense not allocated to the segment results.  

Minority interest expense presented below includes only minority interest expense related to EBIT of Duke Energy’s joint ventures. It does not include minority interest expense related to interest and taxes of the joint ventures.  

The amounts discussed below include intercompany transactions that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Gigawatt-hours (GWh)  

 (b) Relates to operations of former Cinergy from the date of acquisition and thereafter  

 (c) Megawatt (MW)  

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Carolinas.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Major components of Duke Energy Carolinas’ retail sales.  

 (b) Consists of all components of Duke Energy Carolinas’ sales, including retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers.  

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Midwest for the nine months ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Major components of Duke Energy Midwest’s retail sales.  

 (b) Consists of all components of Duke Energy Midwest’s sales, including retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers.  

48  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $1,066 million increase in regulated revenues for the first quarter of 2007 due to the merger with Cinergy;  

   •    A $212 million increase in fuel revenues, including emission allowances, driven by increased fuel rates for retail customers and increased GWh sales to retail customers;  

   •    A $188 million increase in GWh sales to retail customers due to favorable weather conditions. For the Carolinas and Midwest, cooling degree days for 2007 were approximately 27% and 48% above normal, respectively, compared to close to normal in both regions during 2006;  

   •    An $82 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, due to increased sales volumes primarily due to additional long-term contracts;  

   •    A $57 million increase in retail rates and rate riders primarily related to the new electric base rates implemented in the first quarter of 2007 for Duke Energy Kentucky and the recovery of environmental compliance costs from retail customers in Indiana; and  

   •    A $40 million increase related to the sharing of anticipated merger savings through rate decrement riders with regulated customers, which was substantially completed prior to the third quarter of 2007.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    An $852 million increase in regulated operating expenses for the first quarter of 2007 due to the merger with Cinergy;  

   •    A $137 million increase in operating and maintenance expense primarily due to higher wage and benefit costs, including increased short-term incentive costs, and maintenance costs at fossil and nuclear generating plants, partially offset by a one time $12 million donation in the second quarter 2006 ordered by the NCUC as a condition of the Cinergy merger;  

   •    A $133 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily due to increased retail demand resulting from favorable weather conditions. Generation fueled by coal and natural gas, as well as purchases to meet retail customer requirements, increased significantly during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year. These increases were partially offset by a $21 million reimbursement for previously incurred fuel expenses resulting from a settlement between Duke Energy Carolinas and the U.S. Department of Justice resolving Duke Energy’s used nuclear fuel litigation against the Department of Energy (DOE). The settlement between the parties was finalized on March 6, 2007; and  

   •    A $40 million increase in depreciation due primarily to additional capital spending in the Carolinas.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $6 million net decrease in regulatory amortization expense primarily due to decreased amortization of compliance costs related to North Carolina clean air legislation during 2007 as compared to the prior year. Regulatory amortization expenses related to clean air were approximately $187 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to approximately $225 million during the same period in 2006. This decrease was partially offset by the write-off of a portion of the investment in the GridSouth RTO (approximately $17 million) per a rate order from the NCUC and Ohio’s regulatory amortization related to the rate transition charge rider and new demand side management (DSM) rider.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase is primarily attributable to the equity component of AFUDC earned from additional capital spending for on-going construction projects.  

EBIT. The increase resulted primarily from the merger with Cinergy, favorable weather conditions, additional long-term wholesale contracts, increase in retail rates and rate riders and the substantial completion of the required rate reductions due to the merger with Cinergy. These increases were partially offset by increased operating and maintenance expenses and additional depreciation as rate base increased during 2007.  

Matters Impacting Future U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas Results  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas continues to increase its customer base, maintain low costs and deliver high-quality customer service in the Carolinas and Midwest. The residential and general service sectors are expected to grow. The industrial sector, particularly textile and housing related, was soft in 2007 and that trend is expected to continue in 2008. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas will continue to provide strong cash flows from operations to Duke Energy, which will help fund the capital spending program in 2008. Changes in weather, wholesale power market prices, service area economy, generation availability and changes to the regulatory environment would impact future financial results for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas.  

49  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

The impact of the North Carolina rate order resulting from the 2007 rate review ordered by the NCUC will also affect income for 2008 and future years. Particularly, retail base rates were lowered by $287 million, which was primarily offset by the elimination of clean air legislation amortization. For 2008 only, the NCUC also allowed a one time increment rider of $80 million related to merger savings. Legislation enacted in both North and South Carolina in 2007 will allow Duke Energy Carolinas to recover from retail customers more of the costs incurred for purchases of power and reagents needed to meet customer demand. Various regulatory activities will continue in 2008, including a review of Duke Energy Carolinas’ and Duke Energy Indiana’s proposed cost recovery methodology related to energy efficiency programs. Decisions on 2007 filings for certification for new generation are also expected. Duke Energy Ohio’s pending gas rate case could also impact future results through the increase of base rates.  

The Southeastern United States continues to experience severe drought conditions brought about by a significant shortage of rainfall in the past several months. As a result of these conditions, water supplies in the reservoirs and lake systems that support many of Duke Energy Carolinas’ hydroelectric, nuclear, and fossil electric generation plants have declined and could continue to decline in the absence of more normal levels of rainfall. Duke Energy is analyzing long-term weather forecasts and developing plans to mitigate any potential operational impacts that continued severe drought conditions could cause; however, at this time we cannot determine if such impacts will have a material effect on Duke Energy.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $2,651 million increase in regulated revenues due to the acquisition of Cinergy;  

   •    A $203 million increase in fuel revenues driven by increased fuel rates for retail customers due primarily to increased coal costs. The delivered cost of coal in 2006 is approximately $11 per ton higher than the same period in 2005, representing an approximately 20% increase; and  

   •    A $27 million increase related to demand from retail customers, due primarily to continued growth in the number of residential and general service customers in Duke Energy Carolinas’ service territory. The number of customers in 2006 increased by approximately 45,000 compared to 2005.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $91 million decrease in wholesale power sales, net of the impact of sharing of profits from wholesale power sales with industrial customers in North Carolina ($40 million). Sales volumes decreased by approximately 39% primarily due to production constraints caused by generation outages and pricing;  

   •    A $77 million decrease related to the sharing of anticipated merger savings by way of a rate decrement rider with regulated customers in North Carolina and South Carolina. As a requirement of the merger, Duke Energy Carolinas is required to share anticipated merger savings of approximately $118 million with North Carolina customers and approximately $40 million with South Carolina customers over a one year period; and  

   •    A $32 million decrease in GWh sales to retail customers due to unfavorable weather conditions compared to the same period in 2005. Weather statistics in 2006 for heating degree days were approximately 9% below normal as compared to 2% above normal in 2005. Overall weather statistics for both heating and cooling periods in 2006 were unfavorable compared to the same periods in 2005.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $2,245 million increase in regulated operating expenses due to the acquisition of Cinergy;  

   •    A $188 million increase in fuel expenses, due primarily to higher coal costs. Fossil generation fueled by coal accounted for slightly more than 50% of total generation for year to date December 31, 2006 and 2005 and the delivered cost of coal in 2006 is approximately $11 per ton higher than the same period in 2005;  

   •    A $42 million increase in purchased power expense, due primarily to less generation availability during 2006 as a result of outages at base load stations; and  

   •    A $24 million increase in depreciation expense, due to additional capital spending.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    An $86 million decrease in regulatory amortization, due to reduced amortization of compliance costs related to clean air legislation during 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005. Regulatory amortization expenses were approximately $225 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to approximately $311 million during the same period in 2005;  

50  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

   •    A $39 million decrease in operating and maintenance expenses, due primarily to a December 2005 ice storm; and  

   •    A $15 million decrease in donations related to sharing of profits from wholesale power sales with charitable, educational and economic development programs in North Carolina and South Carolina. For the year ended December 31, 2006, donations totaled $13 million, while for the same period in 2005, donations totaled $28 million.  

Other income and expenses. The increase in Other income and expenses resulted primarily from an increase in AFUDC due mainly to the acquisition of the regulated operations of Cinergy.  

EBIT. The increase in EBIT resulted primarily from the acquisition of the regulated operations of Cinergy, lower regulatory amortization in North Carolina, increased demand from retail customers due to continued growth in the number of residential and general service customers and decreased operating and maintenance expense in the Carolinas. These changes were partially offset by lower wholesale power sales, net of sharing, rate reductions due to the merger, unfavorable weather conditions and increased purchased power expense in the Carolinas.  

Commercial Power  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Excludes discontinued operations  

During the third quarter of 2005, the Board of Directors of Duke Energy authorized and directed management to execute the sale or disposition of substantially all of former DENA’s remaining assets and contracts outside the Midwestern United States and certain contractual positions related to the Midwestern assets. As a result of this exit plan, Commercial Power includes the operations of former DENA’s Midwestern generation assets and remaining Southeastern operations related to the assets which were disposed of in 2004. The results of former DENA’s discontinued operations, which are comprised of assets sold to LS Power, are presented in (Loss) Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations, and are discussed in consolidated Results of Operations section titled “Consolidated (Loss) Income from Discontinued Operations, net of tax.”  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as compared to December 31, 2006  

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $387 million increase related to the non-regulated generation assets of former Cinergy, including the impacts of purchase accounting, which reflects the first quarter 2007 operating revenues for which there was zero in the comparable period in the prior year as a result of the merger in April 2006;  

   •    A $185 million increase in retail electric revenues due to higher retail pricing principally related to the time of collections on fuel and purchased power (FPP) rider and increased retail demand resulting from favorable weather in 2007 compared to 2006; and  

   •    A $134 million increase in revenues due to higher generation volumes and capacity revenues from the Midwest gas-fired assets resulting from favorable weather in 2007 compared to 2006.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $111 million decrease in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $52 million in 2007 compared to gains of $59 million in 2006; and  

   •    A $35 million decrease in revenues from sales of fuel due to lower volumes in 2007 compared to 2006.  

51  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $327 million increase related to the non-regulated generation assets of former Cinergy, including the impacts of purchase accounting, which reflects the first quarter 2007 operating expenses for which there was zero in the comparable period in the prior year as a result of the merger with Cinergy in April 2006;  

   •    A $116 million increase in fuel expenses for the Midwest gas-fired assets primarily due to increased generation volumes in 2007 compared to 2006; and  

   •    A $36 million increase in operating expenses primarily due to increased plant maintenance in 2007.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $114 million decrease in net mark-to-market expenses on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market gains of $65 million in 2007 compared to losses of $49 million in 2006; and  

   •    A $30 million decrease in expenses associated with sales of fuel due to lower volumes in 2007 compared to 2006.  

(Losses) Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. Decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 is attributable to lower losses on emission allowance sales in 2007 due to lower sales activity in 2007 compared to 2006.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease is driven by lower equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. 

EBIT. The improvement is primarily attributable to higher retail margins resulting largely from favorable timing of fuel and purchase power recoveries, increased retail demand as a result of favorable weather and improved results from the Midwest gas-fired assets as a result of higher generation volumes and increased capacity revenues. These favorable variances were partially offset by higher expenses from increased plant maintenance in 2007.  

Matters Impacting Future Commercial Power Results  

Commercial Power’s current strategy is focused on maximizing the returns and cash flows from its current portfolio, as well as growing Duke Energy’s non-regulated renewable energy portfolio. Results for Commercial Power are sensitive to changes in power supply, power demand, fuel prices and weather, as well as dependent upon completion of energy asset construction projects and tax credits on renewable energy production. Future results for Commercial Power are subject to volatility due to the over or under-collection of fuel and purchased power costs since Commercial Power’s Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) market based standard service offer (MBSSO) is not subject to regulatory accounting pursuant to SFAS No. 71, “Accounting for Certain Types of Regulation” (SFAS No. 71). In addition, Commercial Power’s RSP expires on December 31, 2008. Duke Energy is currently working with the PUCO and the Ohio legislature to establish a rate structure beyond 2008. The outcome of this rate structure could impact the results of operations in future periods. Compared to 2006 and 2007, Commercial Power’s 2008 results will also be favorably impacted by the reduced impact of purchase accounting adjustments recorded in connection with the 2006 merger with Cinergy.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as compared to December 31, 2005  

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily driven by the acquisition of Cinergy non-regulated generation assets for which results, including the impacts of purchase accounting, are reflected from the date of acquisition and thereafter, but are not included in the same period in 2005 (approximately $1,169 million). Operating revenues associated with the former DENA Midwest plants were approximately $14 million higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to higher average prices and slightly higher volumes.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily driven by the acquisition of Cinergy non-regulated generation assets for which results, including the impacts of purchase accounting, are reflected from the date of acquisition and thereafter, but are not included in the same period in 2005 (approximately $1,082 million). Operating expenses associated with the former DENA Midwest plants were approximately $10 million higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to higher fuel prices and slightly higher volumes.  

(Losses) Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The increase was driven primarily by an approximate $75 million pre-tax charge in 2005 related to the termination of structured power contracts in the Southeastern Region, partially offset by net losses of approximately $29 million on sales of emission allowances in 2006.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase is driven primarily by equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates related to investments acquired in connection with the Cinergy merger in 2006.  

EBIT. The increase was due primarily to the approximate $75 million pre-tax charge in 2005 related to the termination of structured power contracts in the Southeastern Region and the acquisition of Cinergy assets (approximately $95 million).  

52  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

International Energy  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Excludes discontinued operations  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    An $81 million increase in Brazil due to higher sales prices and favorable exchange rates;  

   •    A $37 million increase in Guatemala due to higher prices and volumes as a result of increased thermal dispatch; and  

   •    A $27 million increase in Peru due to higher spot prices as a result of transmission line congestion.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    An $18 million decrease in Ecuador due to decreased sales as a result of lower thermal dispatch; and  

   •    A $5 million decrease in Argentina due to lower sales volumes resulting from unfavorable hydrology, partially offset by higher average sales prices.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $100 million decrease due to a prior year reserve established as a result of a settlement made in conjunction with the Citrus litigation;  

   •    A $43 million decrease in Mexico due primarily to a $33 million impairment charge on the notes receivable from the Campeche equity investment in 2006; and  

   •    An $11 million decrease in Ecuador due to lower fuel used as a result of lower generation.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $50 million increase in Brazil primarily due to higher exchange rates and higher regulatory and purchased power costs;  

   •    A $37 million increase in Guatemala due to increased fuel used as a result of higher dispatch and higher maintenance costs as a result of unplanned outages; and  

   •    An $8 million increase in Argentina due to higher maintenance costs.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was driven primarily by a $26 million increase in equity earnings at National Methanol Company (NMC) as a result of higher methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) margins, as well as the absence of a $17 million impairment of the Campeche equity investment recorded in 2006.  

EBIT. The increase in EBIT was primarily due to a prior year reserve established as a result of a settlement made in conjunction with the Citrus litigation, a prior year impairment of the Campeche equity investment and note receivable reserve, favorable prices in Peru due to transmission line congestion, favorable prices and net foreign exchange impacts offset by higher regulatory costs in Brazil and higher equity earnings at National Methanol, partially offset by higher maintenance costs and unfavorable hydrology in Argentina.  

53  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Matters Impacting Future International Energy Results  

International Energy’s current strategy is focused on selectively growing its Latin American power generation business while continuing to maximize the returns and cash flow from its current portfolio. EBIT results for International Energy are sensitive to changes in hydrology, power supply, power demand, and fuel and commodity prices. Regulatory matters can also impact EBIT results, as well as impacts from fluctuations in exchange rates, most notably the Brazilian Real.  

Certain of International Energy’s long-term sales contracts and long-term debt in Brazil contain inflation adjustment clauses. While this is favorable to revenue in the long run, as International Energy’s contract prices are adjusted, there is an unfavorable impact on interest expense resulting from revaluation of International Energy’s outstanding local currency debt.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $118 million increase in Peru due to increased ownership and resulting consolidation of Aguaytia (See Note 2 in the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions”) and an increase in Egenor due to higher sales volumes, offset by lower prices;  

   •    A $40 million increase in El Salvador due to higher energy prices;  

   •    A $31 million increase in Brazil due to the strengthening of the Brazilian Real against the U.S. dollar and higher average energy prices, partially offset by lower volumes; and  

   •    A $27 million increase in Argentina primarily due to higher electricity generation, prices and increased gas marketing sales.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $109 million increase in Peru due to increased ownership and resulting consolidation of Aguaytia and increased purchased power and fuel costs in Egenor;  

   •    A $100 million increase due to a reserve established as a result of a settlement made in conjunction with the Citrus litigation;  

   •    A $38 million increase in El Salvador primarily due to higher fuel prices and increased fuel consumption;  

   •    A $34 million increase in Brazil due to the strengthening of the Brazilian Real against the U.S. dollar, increased regulatory fees, and purchased power costs; and  

   •    A $33 million increase in Mexico due to an impairment of a note receivable from Campeche.  

Other Income and expenses, net. The decrease was primarily driven by a $26 million decrease in NMC due to lower MTBE margins and unplanned outages and a $12 million decrease as a result of consolidation of Aguaytia in 2006.  

EBIT. The decrease in EBIT was primarily due to a litigation provision, an impairment in Mexico, lower margins at NMC, higher purchased power costs in Egenor, offset by favorable hydrology and pricing in Argentina.  

Crescent(a)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In September 2006, Duke Energy completed a joint venture transaction at Crescent and deconsolidated its investment in Crescent due to reduction in ownership and its inability to exercise control. As a result, Crescent segment data includes Crescent as a consolidated wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy for periods prior to September 7, 2006, and as an equity investment for the periods subsequent to September 7, 2006 and represents Duke Energy’s 50% of equity earnings in Crescent.  

54  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

EBIT. The decrease was due primarily to a $246 million gain on the sale of ownership interests in Crescent in the third quarter 2006 (see Note 2 in the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions”); significant gains in the second quarter 2006, primarily an approximate $81 million gain on the sale of two office buildings at Potomac Yard in Washington, D.C. and an approximate $52 million gain on a land sale at Lake Keowee in northwestern South Carolina; lower residential developed lot sales; a $32 million impairment charge recorded in equity earnings for the fourth quarter 2007 related to certain of Crescent’s residential developments; and the inclusion of approximately $29 million of interest expense in Crescent’s equity earnings for 2007 compared to $6 million for 2006. Prior to the deconsolidation of Crescent, interest expense was not included in Crescent’s segment EBIT.  

Matters Impacting Future Crescent Results  

Crescent’s results are subject to volatility due to factors including its management’s portfolio allocation decisions, the strength of the real estate markets, the cost of construction materials and changes in interest rates. As discussed above, during 2007 Crescent recorded impairment charges on certain of its properties. The impairment charges reflect the current economic conditions in Crescent’s markets and its management’s current plans for the properties in its portfolio. Changes in factors such as further or prolonged deterioration in market conditions or changes regarding the timing or method for disposition of properties could result in future impairments being recorded by Crescent.  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was driven primarily by the deconsolidation of Crescent effective September 7, 2006, as well as a $272 million decrease in residential developed lot sales, primarily due to decreased sales at the LandMar division in Florida.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by the deconsolidation of Crescent effective September 7, 2006, as well as a $187 million decrease in the cost of residential developed lot sales as noted above and a $16 million impairment charge in 2005 related to a residential community in South Carolina (Oldfield).  

Gains on Sales of Investments in Commercial and Multi-Family Real Estate. The increase was driven primarily by an $81 million gain on the sale of two office buildings at Potomac Yard in Washington, D.C. along with a $52 million land sale at Lake Keowee in northwestern South Carolina in 2006, partially offset by a $41 million land sale at Catawba Ridge in South Carolina in 2005, a $15 million gain on a land sale in Charlotte, North Carolina in 2005 and a $19 million gain on a project sale in Jacksonville, Florida in 2005.  

(Losses) Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The increase was due to an approximate $246 million pre-tax gain resulting from the sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease is primarily due to $45 million in income related to a distribution from an interest in a portfolio of commercial office buildings in the third quarter of 2005.  

EBIT. The increase was primarily due to the gain on sale of an ownership interest in Crescent, as noted above, as well as the sale of the Potomac Yard office buildings, partially offset by land and project sales in 2005 as discussed above.  

Supplemental Data  

Below is supplemental condensed summary financial information for Crescent stand-alone operating results subsequent to deconsolidation on September 7, 2006:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

55  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Other  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $15 million increase related to revenues earned for services performed for Spectra Energy; and  

   •    A $14 million increase related to DETM, primarily driven by mark-to-market activity.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $110 million decrease related to contract settlement negotiations. Duke Energy was party to an agreement with a third party service provider related to certain future purchases. The agreement contained certain damage payment provisions if qualifying purchases were not initiated by September 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Duke Energy initiated early settlement discussions regarding this agreement and recorded a reserve of approximately $65 million. During the year ended December 31, 2007, Duke Energy paid the third party service provider approximately $20 million, which directly reduced Duke Energy’s future exposure under the agreement, and further reduced the reserve by $45 million based upon qualifying purchase commitments that fulfilled Duke Energy’s obligations under the agreement;  

   •    A $74 million decrease in costs to achieve related to the Cinergy merger;  

   •    A $50 million decrease at Bison due primarily to lower charges for mutual insurance exit obligations of approximately $76 million, partially offset by higher operating expenses of approximately $26 million;  

   •    A $42 million decrease in governance and other corporate costs, including prior year shared services cost allocations to Spectra Energy not classified as discontinued operations; and  

   •    A $22 million decrease in amortization costs related to Crescent capitalized interest.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $25 million increase due to a donation to the Duke Foundation, a non-profit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected non-profits and governmental subdivisions; and  

   •    A $12 million increase related to employee severance costs.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease was driven primarily by convertible debt charges of approximately $21 million related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy, partially offset by an increase in investment returns related to executive life insurance of $8 million.  

EBIT. The improvement was due primarily to contract settlement negotiations, lower charges for mutual insurance exit obligations, the reduction of costs to achieve related to the Cinergy merger, lower governance and other corporate costs and a decrease in amortization costs related to Crescent capitalized interest, partially offset by an increase in captive insurance expenses, a donation to the Duke Foundation, convertible debt charges related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy and employee severance charges.  

Matters Impacting Future Other Results  

Future Other results may be subject to volatility as a result of losses insured by Bison and changes in liabilities associated with mutual insurance companies and the wind-down of DETM.  

56  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Year Ended December 31, 2006 as Compared to December 31, 2005  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $43 million decrease due to the sale of DPSG in February 2006; and  

   •    A $21 million decrease due to a prior year mark-to-market gain related to former DENA’s hedge discontinuance in the Southeast.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $128 million increase due to costs-to-achieve in 2006 related to the Cinergy merger;  

   •    A $65 million increase due to a charge in 2006 related to contract settlement negotiations; and  

   •    A $14 million increase in corporate governance and other costs due primarily to the merger with Cinergy in April 2006.  

Partially offset by:  

   •    A $47 million decrease due to the continued wind-down of the former DENA businesses; and  

   •    A $45 million decrease due to the sale of DPSG.  

EBIT. The decrease was due primarily to the increase in charges in 2006 associated with Cinergy merger and a charge for contract settlement negotiations.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

The application of accounting policies and estimates is an important process that continues to evolve as Duke Energy’s operations change and accounting guidance evolves. Duke Energy has identified a number of critical accounting policies and estimates that require the use of significant estimates and judgments.  

Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on other various assumptions that they believe are reasonable at the time of application. The estimates and judgments may change as time passes and more information about Duke Energy’s environment becomes available. If estimates and judgments are different than the actual amounts recorded, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to take into consideration the new information. Duke Energy discusses its critical accounting policies and estimates and other significant accounting policies with senior members of management and the audit committee, as appropriate. Duke Energy’s critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed below.  

Regulatory Accounting  

Duke Energy accounts for certain of its regulated operations (primarily U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas) under the provisions of SFAS No. 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation.” As a result, Duke Energy records assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recorded under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for non-regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that either are not likely to or have yet to be incurred. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. Based on this continual assessment, management believes the existing regulatory assets are probable of recovery. This assessment reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the state and federal levels, and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Additionally, the regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, nuclear decommissioning costs and amortization of regulatory assets. Total regulatory assets were $2,645 million as of December 31, 2007 and $4,072 million as of December 31, 2006. Total regulatory liabilities were $2,674 million as of December 31, 2007 and $3,058 million as of December 31, 2006. Amounts at December 31, 2006 include balances related to the natural gas businesses that were spun off on January 2, 2007. For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”  

Goodwill Impairment Assessments  

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Duke Energy had goodwill balances of $4,642 million and $8,175 million, respectively. Duke Energy evaluates the impairment of goodwill under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS No. 142). The majority of Duke Energy’s goodwill at December 31, 2007 relates to the acquisition of Cinergy in April 2006, whose assets are primarily included in   

57  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. The remainder relates to International Energy’s Latin American operations. Goodwill at December 31, 2006 included approximately $3,523 million which primarily related to the acquisition of Westcoast Energy, Inc. (Westcoast) in March 2002 and was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007. As of the acquisition date, Duke Energy allocates goodwill to a reporting unit, which Duke Energy defines as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. As required by SFAS No. 142, Duke Energy performs an annual goodwill impairment test and updates the test between annual tests if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Key assumptions used in the analysis include, but are not limited to, the use of an appropriate discount rate, estimated future cash flows and estimated run rates of operation, maintenance, and general and administrative costs. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory stability and ability to renew contracts, as well as other factors, into its revenue and expense forecasts. Duke Energy did not record any impairment on its goodwill as a result of the 2007, 2006 or 2005 impairment tests required by SFAS No. 142.  

Management continues to remain alert for any indicators that the fair value of a reporting unit could be below book value and will assess goodwill for impairment as appropriate.  

Revenue Recognition  

Revenues on sales of electricity and gas, primarily at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, are recognized when either the service is provided or the product is delivered. Unbilled revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue/kilowatt hour or per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) for all customer classes to the number of estimated kilowatt hours or Mcf’s delivered but not billed. The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly period to period as a result of factors including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns and customer mix. Unbilled revenues, which are recorded as Receivables in Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $380 million and $330 million, respectively. The amount at December 31, 2006 excludes unbilled revenues related to the natural gas businesses transferred in January 2007, as discussed above.  

Accounting for Loss Contingencies  

Duke Energy is involved in certain legal and environmental matters that arise in the normal course of business. In the preparation of its consolidated financial statements, management makes judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and records a loss contingency based on the accounting guidance set forth in SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” (SFAS No. 5), which requires a loss contingency to be recognized when it is determined that it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Management regularly reviews current information available to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts and scenarios that often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties, such as federal, state and local courts and other regulators. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long periods of time. Amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may differ from the actual outcome once the contingency is resolved, which could have a material impact on future results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has experienced numerous claims for indemnification and medical cost reimbursement relating to damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen from the exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with construction and maintenance activities conducted by Duke Energy Carolinas on its electric generation plants prior to 1985.  

Amounts recognized as asbestos-related reserves related to Duke Energy Carolinas in the Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled approximately $1,082 million and $1,159 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and are classified in Other Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities and Other Current Liabilities. These reserves are based upon the minimum amount in Duke Energy’s best estimate of the range of loss of $1,082 million to $1,350 million for current and future asbestos claims through 2027. The reserves balance of $1,082 million as of December 31, 2007 consists of approximately $182 million related to known claimants and approximately $900 million related to unknown claimants. Management believes that it is possible there will be additional claims filed against Duke Energy Carolinas after 2027. In light of the uncertainties inherent in a longer-term forecast, management does not believe that we can reasonably estimate the indemnity and medical costs that might be incurred after 2027 related to such potential claims. Asbestos-related loss estimates incorporate anticipated inflation, if applicable, and are recorded on an undiscounted basis. These reserves are based upon current estimates and are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, the nature of the alleged injury, and the average cost of resolving each such claim could change our estimated liability, as could any substantial adverse or favorable verdict at trial. A federal legislative solution, further state tort reform or structured settlement transactions could also change the estimated liability. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting matters   

58  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 into the future and numerous other factors outside Duke Energy Carolinas’ control, management believes that it is reasonably possible Duke Energy Carolinas may incur asbestos liabilities in excess of the recorded reserves. While it is reasonably possible that such excess liabilities could be material to operating results in any given quarter or year, management does not believe that such excess liabilities would have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy’s long-term results of operations, liquidity, or consolidated financial position.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas’ asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Through December 31, 2007, Duke Energy has made approximately $460 million in payments that apply to this retention. The insurance policy limit for potential insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,107 million in excess of the self insured retention. Probable insurance recoveries of approximately $1,040 million and $1,020 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets primarily in Other within Investments and Other Assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Duke Energy considers the existence of uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims or any significant solvency concerns related to the insurance carrier, and is not aware of such uncertainties as of December 31, 2007.  

For further information, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Accounting for Income Taxes  

Duke Energy accounts for income taxes under SFAS No. 109, “Accounting For Income Taxes,” (SFAS No. 109) and FIN 48. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the book basis and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. If future utilization of deferred tax assets is uncertain, Duke Energy may record a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets.  

Prior to the adoption of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007, Duke Energy recorded tax contingencies based on the accounting guidance set forth in SFAS No. 5, which requires a contingency to be both probable and reasonably estimable for a loss to be recorded. Upon adoption of FIN 48, Duke Energy began recording unrecognized tax benefits for positions taken or expected to be taken on tax returns, including the decision to exclude certain income or transactions from a return, when a more-likely-than-not threshold is met for a tax position and management believes that the position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. In accordance with FIN 48, Duke Energy records the largest amount of the unrecognized tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant management judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management reevaluates tax positions each period in which new information about recognition or measurement becomes available.  

Significant management judgment is required in determining Duke Energy’s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and the valuation recorded against Duke Energy’s net deferred tax assets, if any. In assessing the likelihood of realization of deferred tax assets, management considers estimates of the amount and character of future taxable income. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, Duke Energy’s forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. Although management believes current estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates.  

For further information, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Income Taxes.”  

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits  

Duke Energy accounts for its defined benefit pension plans using SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,” (SFAS No. 158). Under SFAS No. 87, pension income/expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees’ approximate service periods. Other post-retirement benefits are accounted for using SFAS No. 106, “Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,” (SFAS No. 106).  

In accordance with the measurement date provision of SFAS No. 158, in 2007, Duke Energy changed its measurement date from September 30 to December 31.  

Funding requirements for defined benefit (DB) plans are determined by government regulations, not SFAS No. 87. Duke Energy made voluntary contributions to its DB retirement plans of $350 million in 2007, $124 million in 2006 and zero in 2005. Duke Energy does not anticipate making a contribution to its DB retirement plans in 2008. Additionally, during 2007, Duke Energy contributed approximately $62 million to its other post-retirement benefit plans.  

59  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

The calculation of pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and Duke Energy’s pension and other post-retirement liabilities require the use of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and reported liability amounts, and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes that the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. Additionally, medical and prescription drug cost trend rate assumptions are critical to Duke Energy’s estimates of other post-retirement benefits. The prescription drug trend rate assumption resulted from the effect of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act (Modernization Act).  

Duke Energy Plans  

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries (including legacy Cinergy businesses) maintain non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans (Plans). The Plans cover most U.S. employees using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits that are based upon a percentage (which may vary with age and years of service) of current eligible earnings and current interest credits. Certain legacy Cinergy employees are covered under plans that use a final average earnings formula. Under a final average earnings formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit equal to a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings, plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings in excess of covered compensation per year of participation (maximum of 35 years), plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings times years of participation in excess of 35 years. Duke Energy also maintains non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans which cover certain executives.  

Duke Energy and most of its subsidiaries also provide some health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory basis. Employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans.  

Duke Energy recognized pre-tax qualified pension cost of $80 million, pre-tax non-qualified pension cost of $14 million and pre-tax other post-retirement benefits cost of $85 million in 2007. In 2008, Duke Energy’s qualified pension cost is expected to be approximately $40 million lower than in 2007 as a result of the 2007 contribution to the qualified plans, non-qualified pension cost is expected to remain approximately the same as 2007 and other post-retirement benefits cost is expected to be approximately $27 million lower than in 2007 as a result of the aforementioned voluntary contribution to the other post-retirement benefit plans.  

For both pension and other post-retirement plans, Duke Energy assumed that its plan’s assets would generate a long-term rate of return of 8.5% as of December 31, 2007. The assets for Duke Energy’s pension and other post-retirement plans are maintained in a master trust. The investment objective of the master trust is to achieve reasonable returns on trust assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for plan participants. The asset allocation target was set after considering the investment objective and the risk profile with respect to the trust. U.S. equities are held for their high expected return. Non-U.S. equities, debt securities, and real estate are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are to be diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers or investments. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to its targeted allocation when considered appropriate.  

The expected long-term rate of return of 8.5% for the plan’s assets was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers. The weighted average returns expected by asset classes were 4.3% for U.S. equities, 1.7% for Non U.S. equities, 2.2% for fixed income securities, and 0.3% for real estate.  

If Duke Energy had used a long-term rate of 8.25% in 2007, pre-tax pension expense would have been higher by approximately $9 million and pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been higher by less than $1 million. If Duke Energy had used a long-term rate of 8.75% pre-tax pension expense would have been lower by approximately $9 million and pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been lower by less than $1 million.  

Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a rate of 6.00% as of December 31, 2007. Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using rates of 5.75% as of September 30, 2006 for its non-legacy Cinergy business pension plans and 6.00% as of April 1, 2006 for its legacy Cinergy business pension plans. For legacy Cinergy plans, the discount rate reflects remeasurement as of April 1, 2006 due to the merger between Duke Energy and Cinergy. Duke Energy determines the appropriate discount based on AA bond yields. The yield is selected based on bonds with cash flows that are similar to the timing and amount of the expected benefit payments under the plan. Lowering the discount rates by 0.25% would have decreased Duke Energy’s 2007 pre-tax pension expense by approximately $2 million. Increasing the discount rates by 0.25% would have increased Duke Energy’s 2007 pre-tax pension expense by approximately $2 million. Lowering the discount rates by 0.25% would have increased Duke Energy’s 2007 pre-tax other post-retirement expense by approximately $1 million. Increasing the discount rate by 0.25% would have decreased Duke Energy’s 2007 pre-tax other post-retirement expense by less than approximately $1 million.  

60  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a medical care trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in medical health care costs. Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a prescription drug trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug health care costs. As of December 31, 2007, the medical care trend rates were 8.00%, which grades to 5.00% by 2013. As of December 31, 2007, the prescription drug trend rate was 12.50%, which grades to 5.00% by 2022. If Duke Energy had used health care trend rates one percentage point higher, pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been higher by $5 million. If Duke Energy had used health care trend rates one percentage point lower, pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been lower by $4 million.  

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy’s pension and post-retirement plans will impact Duke Energy’s future pension expense and liabilities. Management cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future.  

For further information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans.”  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Known Trends and Uncertainties  

At December 31, 2007, Duke Energy had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $1.1 billion, partially offset by approximately $742 million of short-term notes payable and commercial paper. During 2008, Duke Energy will rely primarily upon cash flows from operations, borrowings and its existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments to fund its liquidity and capital requirements. The relatively stable operating cash flows of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas business segment compose a substantial portion of Duke Energy’s cash flows from operations and it is anticipated that they will continue to do so for the next several years. A material adverse change in operations, or in available financing, could impact Duke Energy’s ability to fund its current liquidity and capital resource requirements.  

Ultimate cash flows from operations are subject to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends, and market volatility (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for details).  

Duke Energy projects 2008 capital and investment expenditures of approximately $5.1 billion, primarily consisting of:  

   •    $3.9 billion at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  

   •    $0.6 billion at Commercial Power  

   •    $0.4 billion at International Energy and  

   •    $0.2 billion at Other  

Duke Energy continues to focus on reducing risk and positioning its business for future success and will invest principally in its strongest business sectors with an overall focus on positive net cash generation. Based on this goal, approximately 75 percent of total projected 2008 capital expenditures are allocated to the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. Total U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas projected 2008 capital and investment expenditures include approximately $1.7 billion for system growth, $1.5 billion for maintenance and upgrades of existing plants and infrastructure to serve load growth, approximately $0.5 billion of environmental expenditures, and approximately $0.2 billion of nuclear fuel.  

As a result of Duke Energy’s significant commitment to modernize its generating fleet through the construction of new units, as well as its focus on increasing its renewable energy portfolio, the ability to cost effectively manage the construction phase of current and future projects is critical to ensuring full and timely recovery of costs of construction. Should Duke Energy encounter significant cost overruns above amounts approved by the various state commissions, and those amounts are disallowed for recovery in rates, future cash flows could be adversely impacted.  

Duke Energy anticipates its debt to total capitalization ratio to be approximately 40% by the end of 2008, as compared to approximately 35% at the end of 2007. This increase is primarily due to expected debt issuances in 2008, primarily to fund capital expenditures. Duke Energy expect its total debt balance (including outstanding commercial paper balances) to increase approximately $2.6 billion in 2008. Additionally, Duke Energy has expected debt retirements of approximately $2.0 billion in 2008, which includes scheduled maturities of approximately $1.5 billion and approximately $0.5 billion of early retirements of long-term debt that are expected to be refinanced. In January 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage bonds. Proceeds from the issuance will be used to fund capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper.  

Based upon anticipated 2008 cash flows from operations, capital expenditure and dividend payments, Duke Energy expects to increase outstanding commercial paper balances during 2008; however, Duke Energy expects that the current total available capacity under its commercial paper facilities to be sufficient to meet any additional commercial paper requirements.  

61  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Due to recent financial market developments, including certain liquidity issues within the short-term investment markets and a series of write-downs by some companies in the values of their investments in subprime U.S. mortgage-related assets, Duke Energy performed an assessment to determine the impact, if any, of current market developments on Duke Energy’s financial position. 

As of December 31, 2007 and late February 2008, there were no investments in subprime mortgage-related assets within Duke Energy’s short-term investment balances. As of December 31, 2007, Duke Energy held approximately $430 million of investments in auction rate debt securities, substantially all of which were sold at auction in January 2008 at full principal amounts. Duke Energy made new investments in auction rate debt securities in January and February 2008, and as of late-February 2008, Duke Energy holds approximately $300 million of investments in auction rate debt securities. The vast majority of these investments are in U.S. Federal government backed student loans. As a result of the aforementioned credit market developments, these investments, which historically have provided short-term liquidity through a periodic auction process, have become increasingly illiquid as a result of failed auctions. Auction rate securities are designed such that interest rates on these instruments reset periodically through an auction process, so long as demand for the debt at the auction date is sufficient to cover the amount being submitted by the existing holders for auction. In the event demand is less than the amount being auctioned, a failed auction would occur and Duke Energy would begin receiving a higher interest rate on its investments in the auction rate debt at the failed-auction interest rate. As a result of recent auction failures, it is necessary for Duke Energy to hold these investments for longer periods of time than the historical short-term holding periods. However, Duke Energy does not currently believe there is any significant risk of credit default by the issuers and Duke Energy expects to be able to liquidate its holdings in the future at amounts approximating their current book value.  

Duke Energy also performed an assessment of its investments held in trusts, including those that will be used to satisfy future obligations under its pension and other post-retirement benefit plans and future obligations to decommission Duke Energy Carolinas nuclear plants. Based on this assessment, it has been determined that an insignificant portion of the holdings within the trusts are directly invested in subprime mortgage-related assets or auction rate debt securities. Duke Energy does not believe that any decline in the fair value of these subprime mortgage-related assets or auction rate debt securities will have a material impact on its results of operations or its future cash funding requirements. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans,” for additional information on the investment objectives of Duke Energy with respect to its pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assets, and to Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

As of December 31, 2007 and mid-February 2008, Duke Energy had approximately $880 million of auction rate pollution control bonds outstanding. While these debt instruments are long-term in nature and cannot be put back to Duke Energy prior to maturity, the interest rates on these instruments are designed to reset periodically through an auction process. In February 2008, Duke Energy began to experience failed auctions for a portion of these debt instruments. When failed auctions occur on a series of this debt, Duke Energy is required to begin paying a failed-auction interest rate on the instrument. The failed-auction interest rate for the majority of the auction rate debt is 1.75 times one-month LIBOR. Payment of the failed-auction interest rates will continue until Duke Energy is able to either successfully remarket these instruments through the auction process or refund and refinance the existing debt through the issuance of an equivalent amount of tax exempt bonds. Duke Energy is currently pursuing a refunding and refinancing plan, which is subject to approval by applicable state or county financing authorities and utility regulators. If Duke Energy is unable to successfully refund and refinance these debt instruments, the impact of paying higher interest rates on the outstanding auction rate debt is not expected to materially effect Duke Energy’s overall financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Further, at this time, Duke Energy does not believe the recent market developments significantly impact its ability to obtain financing and fully expects to have access to liquidity in the capital markets at reasonable rates and terms. Additionally, Duke Energy has access to unsecured revolving credit facilities, which are not restricted upon general market conditions, with aggregate bank commitments of approximately $2.65 billion, of which a portion is currently committed primarily to backstop Duke Energy’s commercial paper program.  

Duke Energy monitors compliance with all debt covenants and restrictions and does not currently believe it will be in violation or breach of its debt covenants during 2008. However, circumstances could arise that may alter that view. If and when management had a belief that such potential breach could exist, appropriate action would be taken to mitigate any such issue. Duke Energy also maintains an active dialogue with the credit rating agencies.  

Operating Cash Flows  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,208 million in 2007, compared to $3,748 million in 2006, a decrease in cash provided of $540 million. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was driven primarily by:  

   •    The spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007,  

   •    The deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006, and  

62  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

   •    A $250 million increase in contributions to Duke Energy’s pension plan and other post retirement benefit plans in 2007, partially offset by  

   •    The impact of a full year of Cinergy operations in 2007 compared to nine months in 2006.  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,748 million in 2006 compared to $2,818 million in 2005, an increase in cash provided of $930 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to the following:  

   •    The impacts of the merger with Cinergy, effective April 3, 2006, partially offset by  

   •    An approximate $400 million decrease due to the net settlement of the remaining former DENA contracts during 2006.  

Investing Cash Flows  

Net cash used in investing activities was $2,151 million in 2007, $1,328 million in 2006, and $126 million in 2005.  

The primary use of cash related to investing activities is capital and investment expenditures, detailed by reportable business segment in the following table.  

Capital and Investment Expenditures by Business Segment  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts include capital expenditures associated with North Carolina clean air legislation of $418 million in 2007, $403 million in 2006 and $310 million in 2005, which are included in Capital Expenditures within Cash Flows from Investing Activities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  

 (b) On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses. The natural gas businesses spun off primarily consisted of Duke Energy’s Natural Gas Transmission business segment and Duke Energy’s 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream, which was part of the Field Services business segment.  

 (c) Field Services amounts for 2005 only include capital and investment expenditures for periods prior to deconsolidation on July 1, 2005.  

 (d) Crescent amounts for 2006 only include capital and investment expenditures for periods prior to deconsolidation on September 7, 2006. Additionally, amounts include capital expenditures associated with residential real estate of $322 million for the period from January 1, 2006 through the date of deconsolidation and $355 million in 2005, which are included in Capital Expenditures for Residential Real Estate within Cash Flows from Operating Activities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  

The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2007 as compared to 2006 is primarily due to the following:  

   •    Approximately $1.6 billion in proceeds received from the sale of former DENA assets in 2006,  

   •    Approximately $700 million in proceeds received from the sale of Cinergy commercial marketing and trading operations in 2006,  

   •    Approximately $380 million in proceeds received from the sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent in 2006,  

   •    An approximate $250 million decrease in proceeds from the sales of commercial and multi-family real estate due to the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006, and  

   •    Approximately $150 million of cash received in 2006 as part of the Cinergy merger.  

These increases in cash used were partially offset by the following:  

   •    An approximate $1.8 billion increase in proceeds from available-for sale securities, net of purchases, and  

   •    An approximate $470 million decrease in capital and investment expenditures, in part reflecting the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007.  

63  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2006 as compared to 2005 is primarily due to the following:  

   •    Increased capital and investment expenditures of $1,090 million, excluding Crescent’s residential real estate investment, primarily as a result of capital expenditures at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, in large part due to the acquisition of Cinergy in April 2006, the acquisition of the Rockingham facility in 2006 and increased expenditures associated with North Carolina clean air legislation, and,  

   •    Increased purchases of short-term investments of approximately $900 million in 2006 as compared to 2005, due primarily to the proceeds from the Crescent debt financing.  

These increases were partially offset by the following:  

   •    An increase in proceeds received from asset sales in 2006 as compared to 2005. Asset sales activity in 2006 of approximately $2.9 billion primarily involved the disposal of the former DENA remaining operations outside of the Midwestern United States, CMT, as well as the Crescent JV transaction. Asset sales activity in 2005 of approximately $2.4 billion primarily involved the disposition of the investments in TEPPCO as well as the DCP Midstream disposition transaction.  

Financing Cash Flows and Liquidity  

Duke Energy’s consolidated capital structure as of December 31, 2007, including short-term debt, was 35% debt, 1% minority interest and 64% common equity. The fixed charges coverage ratio, calculated using SEC guidelines, was 3.7 times for 2007, 2.6 times for 2006, which includes a pre-tax gain of approximately $250 million on the sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent, and 2.4 times for 2005.  

Net cash used in financing activities was $1,327 million in 2007 compared to $1,961 million in 2006, a decrease of $634 million. The change was due primarily to the following:  

   •    An approximate $500 million decrease in cash used due to the repurchase of common shares in 2006,  

   •    An approximate $400 million decrease in dividends paid as a result of the spin-off of Spectra Energy, and  

   •    An approximate $1,030 million increase in net proceeds in 2007 from the issuance of notes payable and commercial paper.  

These increases were partially offset by:  

   •    An approximate $700 million decrease in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt, net of redemptions,  

   •    An approximate $400 million distribution of cash in 2007 as a result of the spin-off of Spectra Energy,  

   •    An approximate $110 million decrease in cash due to the repurchase of senior convertible notes in 2007, and  

   •    An approximate $100 million decrease in proceeds from the Duke Energy Income Fund.  

Net cash used in financing activities was $1,961 million in 2006 compared to $2,717 million in 2005, a decrease of $756 million. The change was due primarily to the following:  

   •    An approximate $1.1 billion increase in proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt in 2006, net of redemptions, due primarily to the approximate $1.2 billion of debt proceeds from the Crescent JV transaction, and  

   •    An approximate $400 million decrease in share repurchases under Duke Energy’s share repurchase plan.  

These increases were partially offset by:  

   •    An approximate $400 million increase in dividends paid due to the increase in the quarterly dividend paid per share combined with a larger number of shares outstanding, primarily attributable to the 313 million shares issued in connection with the Cinergy merger, and  

   •    The repayment of approximately $400 million of notes payable and commercial paper in 2006 due primarily to proceeds received from asset sales.  

At December 31, 2007, Duke Energy had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $1.1 billion, partially offset by approximately $742 million of short-term notes payable and commercial paper. In January 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage refunding bonds, the proceeds from which will be used to fund capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2007. On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of the natural gas businesses. In connection with this transaction, Duke Energy distributed all the shares of Spectra Energy to Duke Energy shareholders. The distribution ratio approved by Duke Energy’s Board of Directors was one-half share of Spectra Energy stock for each share of Duke   

64  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 Energy stock. Additionally, dividends paid on Duke Energy common stock during 2007 of approximately $1,089 million were less than the 2006 dividends paid of approximately $1,488 million as dividends subsequent to the spin-off were split proportionately between Duke Energy and Spectra Energy such that the sum of the dividends of the two stand-alone companies approximated the former total dividend of Duke Energy.  

On May 15, 2007, substantially all of the holders of the Duke Energy convertible senior notes required Duke Energy to repurchase the balance then outstanding at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. In May 2007, Duke Energy repurchased approximately $110 million of the convertible senior notes.  

In June 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $500 million principal amount of 6.10% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2037. The net proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper that was issued to repay the outstanding $249 million 6.6% Insured Quarterly Senior Notes due 2022 on April 30, 2007, and approximately $110 million of convertible debt discussed above. The remainder was used for general corporate purposes.  

In November 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $100 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as insured auction rate securities, subject to an auction process every 35 days and bear a final maturity of 2040. The initial interest rate was set at 3.65%. The bonds were issued through the North Carolina Capital Facilities Finance Agency to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Belews Creek and Allen Steam Stations.  

In December 2007, Duke Energy Ohio issued $140 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as insured auction rate securities, subject to an auction process every 35 days and bear a final maturity of 2041. The initial interest rate was set at 4.85%. The bonds were issued through the Ohio Air Quality Development Authority to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Conesville, Stuart and Killen Generation Stations in Ohio.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2006. During the year ended December 31, 2006, Duke Energy increased the portion of outstanding commercial paper and pollution control bond balances classified as long-term from $472 million to $929 million. This non-current classification is due to the existence of long-term credit facilities which back-stop these balances along with Duke Energy’s intent to refinance such balances on a long-term basis.  

During 2006, Duke Energy repurchased approximately 17.5 million shares of its common stock for approximately $500 million and paid dividends of approximately $1,488 million. Also, during the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately $632 million of convertible senior notes were converted into approximately 27 million shares of Duke Energy Common Stock.  

In November 2006, Union Gas Limited (Union Gas) issued 4.85% fixed-rate debenture bonds denominated in 125 million Canadian dollars (approximately $108 million U.S. dollar equivalents as of the closing date) due in 2022. This debt was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.  

In October 2006, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $150 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as variable-rate demand bonds, subject to weekly remarketing and bear a final maturity of 2031. The initial interest rate was set at 3.72%. The bonds are supported by an irrevocable 3-year direct-pay letter of credit and were issued through the North Carolina Capital Facilities Finance Agency to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Marshall and Belews Creek Steam Stations.  

In September 2006, prior to the completion of the partial sale of Crescent to the MS Members as discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions,” Crescent issued approximately $1.23 billion principal amount of debt. The net proceeds from the debt issuance of approximately $1.21 billion were recorded as a Financing Activity on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As a result of Duke Energy’s deconsolidation of Crescent effective September 7, 2006, Crescent’s outstanding debt balance of $1,298 million was removed from Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

In September 2006, Union Gas entered into a fixed-rate financing agreement denominated in 165 million Canadian dollars (approximately $148 million in U.S. dollar equivalents as of the issuance date) due in 2036 with an interest rate of 5.46%. This debt was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.  

In September 2006, the Income Fund sold approximately 9 million previously unissued Trust Units at a price of 12.15 Canadian dollars per Trust Unit for total proceeds of 104 million Canadian dollars, net of commissions and expenses of other expenses of issuance. The sale of approximately 9 million Trust Units reduced Duke Energy’s ownership interest in the Income Fund to approximately 46% at December 31, 2006. The Income Fund was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.  

In August 2006, Duke Energy Kentucky issued approximately $77 million principal amount of floating rate tax-exempt notes due August 1, 2027. Proceeds from the issuance were used to refund a like amount of debt on September 1, 2006 then outstanding at Duke Energy Ohio. Approximately $27 million of the floating rate debt was swapped to a fixed rate concurrent with closing.  

65  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

In June 2006, Duke Energy Indiana issued $325 million principal amount of 6.05% senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2016. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay $325 million of 6.65% First Mortgage Bonds that matured on June 15, 2006.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2005. During 2005, Duke Energy repurchased approximately 32.6 million shares of its common stock for approximately $933 million and paid dividends of approximately $1,105 million. Also, during the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately $28 million of convertible senior notes were converted into approximately 1 million shares of Duke Energy Common Stock.  

In December 2005, the Income Fund, a Canadian income trust fund, was created which sold approximately 40% ownership in the Canadian Midstream operations for proceeds, net of underwriting discount, of approximately $110 million. In January 2006, a subsequent greenshoe sale of additional ownership interests, pursuant to an overallotment option, in the Income Fund were sold for approximately $10 million. As discussed above, the Income Fund was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.  

In December 2005, Duke Energy redeemed all Preferred and Preference stock without Sinking Fund Requirements for approximately $137 million and recognized an immaterial loss on the redemption.  

In November 2005, International Energy issued floating rate debt in Guatemala for $87 million and in El Salvador for $75 million. These debt issuances have variable interest rate terms and mature in 2015.  

On September 21, 2005, Union Gas entered into a fixed-rate financing agreement denominated in 200 million Canadian dollars (approximately $171 million in U.S. dollar equivalents as of the issuance date) due in 2016 with an interest rate of 4.64%. This debt was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.  

In August 2005, International Energy issued project-level debt in Peru, of which $75 million is denominated in U.S. dollars and approximately $34 million (in U.S. dollar equivalents as of the issuance date) is denominated in Peru Nuevos Soles. This debt has terms ranging from four to six years as well as variable or fixed interest rate terms, as applicable.  

On March 1, 2005, redemption notices were sent to the bondholders of the $100 million PanEnergy 8.625% bonds due in 2025. These bonds were redeemed on April 15, 2005 at a redemption price of 104.03 or approximately $104 million.  

In December 2004, Duke Energy reached an agreement to sell its partially completed Gray’s Harbor power generation facility (Grays Harbor) to an affiliate of Invenergy LLC. In 2004, Duke Energy terminated its capital lease with the dedicated pipeline which would have transported natural gas to Grays Harbor. As a result of this termination, approximately $94 million was paid by Duke Energy in January 2005.  

Available Credit Facilities and Restrictive Debt Covenants. During the year ended December 31, 2007, Duke Energy’s consolidated credit capacity decreased by approximately $1,468 million as a result of the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007. In June 2007, Duke Energy closed on the syndication of an amended and restated credit facility, replacing the existing credit facilities totaling $2.65 billion with a 5-year, $2.65 billion master credit facility. Concurrent with the syndication of the master credit facility, Duke Energy established a new $1.5 billion commercial paper program at Duke Energy and terminated Cinergy’s previously existing commercial paper program. In addition, the commercial paper program at Duke Energy Carolinas was increased from $650 million to $700 million. For further information on Duke Energy’s credit facilities as of December 31, 2007, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities.”  

Duke Energy’s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements. As of December 31, 2007, Duke Energy was in compliance with those covenants. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or to the acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.  

Credit Ratings. Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries each hold credit ratings by S&P and Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s).  

In May 2007, S&P upgraded Duke Energy and all its subsidiaries as a result of Duke Energy’s significant reduction in business risk, primarily through the disposal of its trading and marketing operations and merchant generation. In addition, S&P withdrew its rating on DETM.  

In January 2008, Moody’s changed the rating outlook on Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Cinergy, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky to stable from positive, while affirming the existing ratings in the below table of each of these entities.  

66  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

The following table summarizes the February 1, 2008 credit ratings from the agencies retained by Duke Energy and its principal funding subsidiaries.  

Credit Ratings Summary as of February 1, 2008  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Represents corporate credit rating and issuer rating for S&P and Moody’s respectively  

 (b) Represents senior unsecured credit rating  

Duke Energy’s credit ratings are dependent on, among other factors, the ability to generate sufficient cash to fund capital and investment expenditures and pay dividends on its common stock, while maintaining the strength of its current balance sheet. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, Duke Energy is unable to maintain its current balance sheet strength, or if its earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, Duke Energy’s credit ratings could be negatively impacted.  

Clauses. Duke Energy may be required to repay certain debt should the credit ratings of Duke Energy Carolinas fall to a certain level at S&P or Moody’s. As of December 31, 2007, Duke Energy had $10 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2012 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB- at S&P or Baa3 at Moody’s, and $21 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2016 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB at S&P or Baa2 at Moody’s.  

Other Financing Matters. In October 2007, Duke Energy filed a registration statement (Form S-3) with the SEC. Under this Form S-3, which is uncapped, Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana may issue debt and other securities in the future at amounts, prices and with terms to be determined at the time of future offerings. The registration statement also allows for the issuance of common stock by Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has paid quarterly cash dividends for 82 consecutive years and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. It is currently anticipated that dividends per share will increase $0.01 per share beginning in the third quarter of 2008.  

Duke Energy issues shares of its common stock to meet certain employee benefit and long-term incentive obligations. Proceeds from issuances of common stock related to employee benefits, primarily employee exercises of stock options, were approximately $50 million in 2007, approximately $127 million in 2006 and approximately $41 million for 2005.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include financial and performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, guarantees of debt, surety bonds and indemnifications. In contemplation of the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007, certain guarantees that had been issued by Spectra Energy Capital were transferred to Duke Energy prior to the consummation of the spin-off. This resulted in Duke Energy recording an immaterial liability for certain guarantees that were previously grandfathered under the provisions of FIN No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others,” and, therefore, had not been recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Guarantees issued by Spectra Energy Capital or its subsidiaries on or prior to December 31, 2006 remained with Spectra Energy Capital subsequent to the spin-off, except for certain guarantees that are in the process of being assigned to Duke Energy. During this assignment period, Duke Energy has indemnified Spectra Energy Capital against any losses incurred under these guarantee obligations. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further details of the guarantee arrangements.  

Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke   

67  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 Energy, either on its own or on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital through the aforementioned indemnification agreements, having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events.  

Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy’s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantee arrangements, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky have an agreement to sell certain of their accounts receivable and related collections to Cinergy Receivables Company LLC (Cinergy Receivables), which purchases, on a revolving basis, nearly all of the retail accounts receivable and related collections of Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky. Cinergy Receivables is not consolidated by Duke Energy since it meets the requirements to be accounted for as a qualifying special purpose entity (SPE). Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky each retain an interest in the receivables transferred to Cinergy Receivables. The transfers of receivables are accounted for as sales, pursuant to SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.” For a more detailed discussion of the sale of certain accounts receivable, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.”  

Duke Energy also holds interests in variable interest entities (VIEs), consolidated and unconsolidated, as defined by FIN No. 46R, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” For further information, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities”.  

Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above and normal operating lease arrangements, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information on these commitments, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Contractual Obligations  

Duke Energy enters into contracts that require payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s contractual cash obligations for each of the periods presented. It is expected that the majority of current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets will be paid in cash in 2008.  

Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2007  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities”. Amount includes interest payments over life of debt or capital lease. Payment amounts exclude $900 million of debt issued by Duke Energy Carolinas in January 2008. Interest payments on variable rate debt instruments were calculated using interest rates derived from examination of the forward interest rate curve. In addition, a spread was placed on top of the interest rates to aid in capturing the volatility inherent in projecting future interest rates.  

 (b) See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”.  

 (c) Includes firm capacity payments that provide Duke Energy with uninterrupted firm access to electricity transmission capacity, and the option to convert natural gas to electricity at third-party owned facilities (tolling arrangements) in some power locations throughout North America. Also includes firm capacity payments under electric power agreements entered into to meet U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ native load requirements.  

 (d) Includes contractual obligations to purchase physical quantities of electricity, coal and nuclear fuel. Amount includes certain normal purchases, energy derivatives and hedges per SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” (SFAS No. 133). For contracts where the price paid is based on an index, the amount is based on forward market prices at December 31, 2007. For certain of these amounts, Duke Energy may settle on a net cash basis since Duke Energy has entered into payment netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties.  

68  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 (e) Includes U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ obligation to purchase an additional ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Joint Ownership of Generating and Transmission Facilities”), as well as contracts for software, telephone, data and consulting or advisory services. Amount also includes contractual obligations for engineering, procurement and construction costs for new generation plants and nuclear plant refurbishments, environmental projects on fossil facilities, and major maintenance of certain non-regulated plants. Amount excludes certain open purchase orders for services that are provided on demand, for which the timing of the purchase can not be determined.  

 (f) Includes certain estimated executive benefit payments and contributions to the NDTF (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations”). The amount of cash flows to be paid to settle the asset retirement obligations is not known with certainty as Duke Energy may use internal resources or external resources to perform retirement activities. As a result, cash obligations for asset retirement activities are excluded. Asset retirement obligations recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets total $2,351 million and the fair value of the NDTF, which will be used to help fund these obligations, is $1,929 million at December 31, 2007. Amount excludes reserves for litigation, environmental remediation, asbestos-related injuries and damages claims and self-insurance claims (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”) because Duke Energy is uncertain as to the timing of when cash payments will be required. Additionally, amount excludes annual insurance premiums that are necessary to operate the business, including nuclear insurance (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”), funding of other post-employment benefits (see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans”) and regulatory credits (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters”) because the amount and timing of the cash payments are uncertain. Also excludes Deferred Income Taxes and Investment Tax Credits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each discrete fiscal year. Additionally, amounts related to uncertain tax positions are excluded from the table due to uncertainty of timing of future payments.  

 (g) Current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, and purchase obligations reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets have been excluded from the above table.  

 (h) Includes approximately $1.2 billion of anticipated remaining costs associated with an engineering, procurement and construction services agreement executed during 2007 with an affiliate of The Shaw Group, Inc., for participation in the construction of Cliffside Unit 6 and a flue gas desulfurization system at an existing unit at Cliffside. Duke Energy has the right to terminate this agreement at any time for its convenience, subject to customary cancellation and demobilization charges in accordance with terms of the agreement.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Risk Management Policies  

Duke Energy is exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, credit exposure, interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Management has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Treasurer and other members of management, on market risk positions, corporate exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. The Treasurer is responsible for the overall governance of managing credit risk and commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.  

Commodity Price Risk  

Duke Energy is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy related assets. Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. Duke Energy employs established policies and procedures to manage its risks associated with these market fluctuations using various commodity derivatives, including swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management and Hedging Activities, Credit Risk, and Financial Instruments.”  

Validation of a contract’s fair value is performed by an internal group separate from Duke Energy’s deal origination areas. While Duke Energy uses common industry practices to develop its valuation techniques, changes in Duke Energy’s pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income recognition.  

Hedging Strategies. Duke Energy closely monitors the risks associated with these commodity price changes on its future operations and, where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations. Duke Energy’s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge the generation portfolio against exposure to the prices of power and fuel.  

Certain derivatives used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. To the extent that instruments accounted for as hedges are effective in offsetting the transaction being hedged, there is no impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operations until delivery or settlement occurs. Accordingly, assumptions and valuation techniques for these contracts have no impact on reported earnings prior to settlement. Several factors influence the effectiveness of a hedge contract, including the use of contracts with different commodities or unmatched terms and counterparty credit risk. Hedge effectiveness is monitored regularly and measured each month.  

In addition to the hedge contracts described above and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, Duke Energy enters into other contracts that qualify for the normal purchases and sales exception described in paragraph 10 of SFAS No. 133, as amended and interpreted by Derivatives Implementation Group Issue C15, “Scope Exceptions: Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception for Option-Type Contracts and Forward Contracts in Electricity,” and SFAS No. 149, “Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments   

69  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 and Hedging Activities.” For contracts qualifying for the scope exception, no recognition of the contract’s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract unless the contract is designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge. On a limited basis, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power apply the normal purchase and normal sales exception to certain contracts. Recognition for the contracts in the Consolidated Statements of Operations will be the same regardless of whether the contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges or as normal purchases and sales, unless designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge, assuming no hedge ineffectiveness.  

Income recognition and realization related to normal purchases and normal sales contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of power. However, Duke Energy’s decision to reduce former DENA’s interest in partially completed plants and the decision in 2005 to sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all of former DENA’s remaining physical and commercial assets outside of the Midwestern United States and certain contractual positions related to the Midwestern assets (see Normal Purchases and Normal Sales below) required the reassessment of all associated derivatives, including normal purchases and normal sales. This required a change from the application of the Accrual Model to the Mark-to-Market (MTM) Model for these contracts and resulted in recording substantial unrealized losses that had not previously been recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  

Other derivatives used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are either not designated as a hedge or do not qualify for hedge accounting and are therefore accounted for using the MTM Model. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts (see Undesignated Contracts below).  

Generation Portfolio Risks. Duke Energy is primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power, natural gas, and coal prices in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. Duke Energy optimizes the value of its bulk power marketing and non-regulated generation portfolios. The portfolios include generation assets (power and capacity), fuel, and emission allowances. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the business units. The generation portfolio not utilized to serve native load or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations, although the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations reported earnings is partially offset by mechanisms in the regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, it was estimated that a ten percent price change per mega-watt hour in forward wholesale power prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $24 million in 2008 and would have had a $38 million impact in 2007, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, it was estimated that a ten percent price change per MMBtu in natural gas prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $9 million in 2008 and would have had a $15 million impact in 2007, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. 

Normal Purchases and Normal Sales. During the third quarter of 2005, Duke Energy’s Board of Directors authorized and directed management to execute the sale or disposition of substantially all of former DENA’s remaining assets and contracts outside the Midwestern United States, approximately 6,100 megawatts of power generation, and certain contractual positions related to the Midwestern assets (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale”). As a result of this decision, Duke Energy recognized a pre-tax loss of approximately $1.9 billion in the third quarter of 2005 for the disqualification of its power and gas forward sales contracts previously designated under the normal purchases normal sales exception. This loss was partially offset by the recognition of a pre-tax gain of approximately $1.2 billion for the discontinuance of hedge accounting for natural gas and power cash flow hedges.  

Undesignated Contracts. Undesignated contracts executed to manage generation portfolio risks are exposed to changes in fair value due to market price fluctuations of wholesale power and coal. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, it was estimated that a ten percent price change in the forward price per megawatt hour of wholesale power would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $16 million in 2008 and would have had a $22 million impact in 2007, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying and undesignated power contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, it was estimated that a ten percent change in the forward price per ton of coal would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $14 million in 2008 and would have had a $12 million impact in 2007, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying and undesignated coal contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date.  

Other Commodity Risks. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, pre-tax income in 2008 and 2007 was not expected to be materially impacted for exposures to other commodities’ price changes.  

The commodity price sensitivity calculations consider existing hedge positions and estimated production levels, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices.  

70  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy’s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms.  

Credit Risk  

Credit risk represents the loss that Duke Energy would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. To reduce credit exposure, Duke Energy seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. Duke Energy attempts to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable Duke Energy to obtain collateral or to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events. Duke Energy may, at times, use credit derivatives or other structures and techniques to provide for third-party credit enhancement of Duke Energy’s counterparties’ obligations.  

Duke Energy’s principal customers for power and natural gas marketing and transportation services are industrial end-users, marketers, local distribution companies and utilities located throughout the U.S. and Latin America. Duke Energy has concentrations of receivables from natural gas and electric utilities and their affiliates, as well as industrial customers and marketers throughout these regions. These concentrations of customers may affect Duke Energy’s overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. Where exposed to credit risk, Duke Energy analyzes the counterparties’ financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establishes credit limits and monitors the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas’ asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Through December 31, 2007, Duke Energy has made approximately $460 million in payments that apply to this retention. The insurance policy limit for potential insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,107 million in excess of the self insured retention. Probable insurance recoveries of approximately $1,040 million and $1,020 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets primarily in Other within Investments and Other Assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims or any significant solvency concerns related to the insurance carrier.  

Based on Duke Energy’s policies for managing credit risk, its exposures and its credit and other reserves, Duke Energy does not anticipate a materially adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty.  

During 2006, Duke Energy finalized the sale of the former DENA portfolio of derivative contracts to Barclays Bank PLC and sold the Cinergy commercial marketing and trading business to Fortis, which eliminated Duke Energy’s credit, collateral, market and legal risk associated with these related trading positions.  

In 1999, the Industrial Development Corp of the City of Edinburg, Texas (IDC) issued approximately $100 million in bonds to purchase equipment for lease to Duke Hidalgo (Hidalgo), a subsidiary of Spectra Energy Capital. Spectra Energy Capital unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed the lease payments of Hidalgo to IDC through 2028. In 2000, Hidalgo was sold to Calpine Corporation and Spectra Energy Capital remained obligated under the lease guaranty. In January 2006, Hidalgo and its subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy protection in connection with the previous bankruptcy filing by its parent, Calpine Corporation in December 2005. Gross, undiscounted exposure under the guarantee obligation as of December 31, 2006 is approximately $200 million, including principal and interest payments. Duke Energy does not believe a loss under the guarantee obligation is probable as of December 31, 2007, but continues to evaluate the situation. Therefore, no reserves have been recorded for any contingent loss as of December 31, 2007. No demands for payment have been made under the guarantee. If losses are incurred under the guarantee, Spectra Energy Capital has certain rights which should allow it to mitigate such loss. Subsequent to the spin-off the natural gas businesses, this guarantee remained with Spectra Energy Capital. However, Duke Energy indemnified Spectra Energy Capital against any future losses that could arise from payments required under this guarantee. In January 2008, Calpine Corporation announced that it had successfully emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and officially concluded its Chapter 11 reorganization.  

Duke Energy’s industry has historically operated under negotiated credit lines for physical delivery contracts. Duke Energy frequently uses master collateral agreements to mitigate certain credit exposures. The collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents an unsecured credit limit, determined in accordance with the corporate credit policy. Collateral agreements also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions.  

Duke Energy also obtains cash or letters of credit from customers to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on its financial analysis of the customer and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction.  

71  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Interest Rate Risk  

Duke Energy is exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of its issuance of variable and fixed rate debt and commercial paper. Duke Energy manages its interest rate exposure by limiting its variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total capitalization and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. Duke Energy also enters into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 8, and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” “Risk Management and Hedging Activities, Credit Risk, and Financial Instruments,” and “Debt and Credit Facilities.”  

Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2007, it was estimated that if market interest rates average 1% higher (lower) in 2008 than in 2007, interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would increase (decrease) by approximately $22 million. Comparatively, based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2006, had interest rates averaged 1% higher (lower) in 2006 than in 2005, it was estimated that interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would have increased (decreased) by approximately $3 million. These amounts were estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges, short-term investments, cash and cash equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. The increase in interest rate sensitivity is primarily due to a decrease in cash and short-term investment balances and a net increase in commercial paper borrowings. If interest rates changed significantly, management would likely take actions to manage its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in Duke Energy’s financial structure.  

Equity Price Risk  

Duke Energy maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC and the NCUC, to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations.”) As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international equity securities, debt securities, fixed-income securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per NRC and NCUC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. Those investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ rates, and fluctuations in equity prices or interest rates do not affect Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations as changes in the fair value of these investments are deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities pursuant to an Order by the NCUC. Earnings or losses of the fund will ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ rates.  

Bison, Duke Energy’s wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary, maintains investments to fund various business risks and losses, such as workers compensation, property, business interruption and general liability. Those investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates.  

Duke Energy maintains investments to help fund the costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. Those investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. Fluctuations in equity prices or interest rates could adversely affect Duke Energy’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans,” for additional information on pension plan assets.  

Foreign Currency Risk  

Duke Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk from investments in international affiliate businesses owned and operated in foreign countries and from certain commodity-related transactions within domestic operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. To mitigate risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, contracts may be denominated in or indexed to the U.S. Dollar and/or local inflation rates, or investments may be naturally hedged through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency. Duke Energy may also use foreign currency derivatives, where possible, to manage its risk related to foreign currency fluctuations. To monitor its currency exchange rate risks, Duke Energy uses sensitivity analysis, which measures the impact of devaluation of the foreign currencies to which it has exposure.  

In 2008, Duke Energy’s primary foreign currency rate exposures are expected to be the Brazilian Real and the Peruvian New Sol. A 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates as of December 31, 2007 in all of Duke Energy’s exposure currencies would result in an estimated net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings of approximately $10 million to Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2008. The Consolidated Balance Sheet would be negatively impacted by approximately $145 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI as of December 31, 2007 as a result of a 10% devaluation in the   

72  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2006, a 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates in all of Duke Energy’s exposure currencies was expected to result in an estimated net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings of approximately $7 million to Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and a reduction of approximately $120 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI as of December 31, 2007.  

OTHER ISSUES  

Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 was signed into law in August 2005. The legislation directs specified agencies to conduct a significant number of studies on various aspects of the energy industry and to implement other provisions through rulemakings. Among the key provisions, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 repeals the PUHCA of 1935, directs FERC to establish a self-regulating electric reliability organization governed by an independent board with FERC oversight, extends the Price Anderson Act for 20 years (until 2025), provides loan guarantees, standby support and production tax credits for new nuclear reactors, gives FERC enhanced merger approval authority, provides FERC new backstop authority for the siting of certain electric transmission projects, streamlines the processes for approval and permitting of interstate pipelines, and reforms hydropower relicensing. In late 2005 and early 2006, FERC initiated several rulemakings as directed by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Duke Energy is currently evaluating these proposals and does not anticipate that these rulemakings will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

Global Climate Change. A body of scientific evidence now accepted by a growing majority of the public and policymakers suggests that the Earth’s climate is changing, caused in part by greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere from human activities. Although there is still much to learn about the causes and long-term effects of climate change, many advocate taking steps now to begin reducing emissions with the aim of stabilizing the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases at a level that avoids the potentially worst-case effects of climate change.  

Greenhouse gas emissions are produced from a wide variety of human activities. The U.S. EPA publishes an inventory of these emissions annually. CO2, an essential trace gas, is a by-product of fossil fuel combustion and currently accounts for about 85% of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. Duke Energy currently accounts for about 1.5% of total U.S. CO2 emissions, and about 1.3% of total U.S. greenhouse gas emissions.  

Duke Energy is adding approximately 60,000 new customers annually to its customer base of nearly four million in the Carolinas and the Midwest and making long-term decisions for how best to meet its customers’ growing demand for electricity. Duke Energy is moving ahead on multiple fronts – energy efficiency, renewable energy, advanced nuclear power, advanced clean-coal and high-efficiency natural gas electric generating plants, and retirement of older less efficient coal-fired power plants. Duke Energy needs regulatory certainty regarding U.S. climate change policy as it makes these investment decisions.  

Duke Energy’s cost of complying with any federal greenhouse gas emissions law that may be enacted will depend on the design details of the program. The major design elements of a greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program that will most influence Duke Energy’s compliance costs include the required levels and timing of the cap, which will drive emission allowance prices, the emission sources covered under the cap, the number of allowances that Duke Energy is allocated on a year-to-year basis, the type of and effectiveness of the cost control mechanism employed by the program, and the availability and cost of technologies that Duke Energy can deploy to lower its emissions. Although it is likely that Congress will adopt some form of mandatory greenhouse gas emission reduction legislation in the future, the timing and specific requirements of any such legislation are highly uncertain, which means that potential future compliance costs for Duke Energy are also highly uncertain.  

The 110th Congress is currently considering several potential U.S. policy responses to the climate change issue. In 2007, nearly a dozen bills were introduced in the Senate calling for mandatory limits on U.S. greenhouse gas emissions through use of a cap-and-trade program. The key differences in the bills are the sources whose emissions would be regulated, the rate at which emissions would be required to be reduced, the number of emission allowances that would be distributed at no cost to sources whose emissions would be regulated, and the method of protecting the economy from potentially high and unexpected program costs.  

On December 5, 2007, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee reported out S. 2191 - America’s Climate Security Act of 2007 – sponsored by Senators Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut and John Warner of Virginia. The bill, which now awaits Senate floor action, proposes an economy-wide greenhouse gas reduction program to begin in 2012. Several bills have also been introduced in the House of Representatives but none has yet received subcommittee or committee approval. It is unlikely that legislation establishing a mandatory federal greenhouse gas emission reduction program will be enacted in 2008.  

Duke Energy supports the enactment of federal greenhouse gas cap-and-trade legislation that would apply to all parts of the economy, including power generation, industrial and commercial sources, and motor vehicles. To permit the economy to adjust rationally to the policy, legislation should establish a long-term program that first slows the growth of emissions, stops them and then transitions to a gradually declining emissions cap as new lower-and non-emitting technologies are developed and become ready for wide-scale deployment.  

73  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

New technologies for reducing CO2 emissions from coal - chief among them carbon capture and sequestration - are not expected to be developed and ready for deployment by 2012 when the Lieberman-Warner legislation, if passed, would take effect. This would pose a challenge to Duke Energy’s ability to utilize all of its current coal-fired generating capacity if the legislation is enacted in its current form. This could challenge Duke Energy’s ability to meet the growing electricity demand of its customers at a reasonable cost. Duke Energy’s deployment of renewable generation, along with its customer energy-efficiency initiative would help, but would not be enough. If the cap is too stringent in the early years of the program, Duke Energy’s compliance options could be limited to purchasing emission allowances and/or relying on existing natural gas generation to replace coal generation. Achieving a large fuel switch from coal to natural gas in less than four years is not practical and, on a national scale, is not good public policy. Such a shift would significantly increase natural gas prices, posing an economic hardship to millions of natural gas customers.  

Compliance cost estimates are very sensitive to various highly uncertain assumptions, including allowance prices. Under the proposed S. 2191 legislation, in addition to allowances allocated at no cost, Duke Energy currently estimates the costs of purchasing needed allowances to cover Duke Energy’s projected emissions in 2012 could range from approximately $930 million to $2.8 billion. Actual costs could be higher or lower than these estimates. Duke Energy would seek to recover its compliance costs through appropriate regulatory mechanisms in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Under a compliance scenario where Duke Energy continues to purchase allowances to meet its compliance obligation, annual allowance purchase costs would increase over time as the number of allowances Duke Energy is allocated under the proposed legislation decreases and allowance prices increase as the cap tightens.  

At some point in the future it would be expected that Duke Energy would begin replacing existing coal-fired generation with new lower-and zero-emitting generation technologies, and/or installing new carbon capture and sequestration technology on existing coal-fired generating plants to reduce emissions when technologies become available. It is not possible at this time, however, to predict with certainty what new technologies might be developed, when they will be ready to be deployed, or what their costs will be. There is also uncertainty as to how or when certain non-technical issues that could affect the cost and availability of new technologies might be resolved by regulators. Duke Energy currently is focused on advanced nuclear generation, integrated gasification combined cycle generation with carbon capture and sequestration, and capture and storage retrofit technology for existing pulverized coal-fired generation as promising new technologies for generating electricity with lower or no CO2 emissions.  

In addition to relying on new technologies to reduce its CO2 emissions, Duke Energy is seeking regulatory approval for a first-of-its-kind innovative approach in the utility industry to help meet growing customer demand with new and creative ways to increase energy efficiency, thereby reducing demand (save-a-watt) instead of relying almost exclusively on new power plants to generate electricity.  

(For additional information on other issues related to Duke Energy, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”)  

New Accounting Standards  

The following new accounting standards have been issued, but have not yet been adopted by Duke Energy as of December 31, 2007:  

SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (SFAS No. 157). In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements. The application of SFAS No. 157 may change Duke Energy’s current practice for measuring fair values under other accounting pronouncements that require fair value measurements. For Duke Energy, SFAS No. 157 is effective as of January 1, 2008. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. 157-2, which delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for one year for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. Duke Energy does not expect to report any material cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earning as is required by SFAS No. 157 for certain limited matters. Duke Energy continues to monitor additional proposed interpretative guidance regarding the application of SFAS No. 157. To date, no matters have been identified regarding implementation of SFAS No. 157 that would have any material impact on Duke Energy’s consolidated results of operations or financial position.  

SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (SFAS No. 159). In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, which permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. For Duke Energy, SFAS No. 159 is effective as of January 1, 2008 and will have no impact on amounts presented for periods prior to the effective date. Duke Energy does not currently have any financial assets or financial liabilities for which the provisions of SFAS No. 159 have been elected. However, in the future, Duke Energy may elect to measure certain financial instruments at fair value in accordance with this standard.  

74  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

EITF Issue No. 06-11, “Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards” (EITF 06-11). In June 2007, the EITF reached a consensus that would require realized income tax benefits from dividends or dividend equivalents that are charged to retained earnings and paid to employees for equity-classified nonvested equity shares, nonvested equity share units, and outstanding equity share options to be recognized as an increase to additional paid-in capital. In addition, EITF 06-11 would require that dividends on equity-classified share-based payment awards be reallocated between retained earnings (for awards expected to vest) and compensation cost (for awards not expected to vest) each reporting period to reflect current forfeiture estimates. For Duke Energy, EITF 06-11 must be applied prospectively to the income tax benefits of dividends on equity-classified employee share-based payment awards that are declared in fiscal years beginning January 1, 2008, as well as interim periods within those fiscal years. Early application would be permitted as of the beginning of a fiscal year for which interim or annual financial statements have not yet been issued. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the impact of applying EITF 06-11, and cannot currently estimate the impact of EITF 06-11 on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (SFAS No. 141R). In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, which replaces SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations.” SFAS No. 141R retains the fundamental requirements in SFAS No. 141 that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations and that an acquirer be identified for each business combination. This statement also establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling (minority) interests in an acquiree, and any goodwill acquired in a business combination or gain recognized from a bargain purchase. For Duke Energy, SFAS No. 141R must be applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date occurs on or after January 1, 2009. The impact to Duke Energy of applying SFAS No. 141(R) for periods subsequent to implementation will be dependent upon the nature of any transactions within the scope of SFAS No. 141(R).  

SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51” (SFAS No. 160). In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, which amends ARB No. 51, “Consolidated Financial Statements,” to establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling (minority) interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in a consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. This statement also changes the way the consolidated income statement is presented by requiring consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. In addition, SFAS No. 160 establishes a single method of accounting for changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation. For Duke Energy, SFAS No. 160 is effective as of January 1, 2009, and must be applied prospectively, except for certain presentation and disclosure requirements which must be applied retrospectively. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 160.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.