PART I   

  Item 1.    Business    

 General Development of Business  

 AMETEK, Inc. (“AMETEK” or the “Company”) is incorporated in Delaware. Its predecessor was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1930 under the name American Machine and Metals, Inc. The Company maintains its principal executive offices in suburban Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at 37 North Valley Road, Building 4, Paoli, Pennsylvania 19301. AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of electronic instruments and electromechanical devices with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. The Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: AME). The common stock of AMETEK is a component of the S&P MidCap 400 and the Russell 1000 Indices.  

 Website Access to Information  

 The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on the Company’s website at www.ametek.com (in the “Investors — Financial News and Information” section), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company has posted, free of charge, to the investor information portion of its website, its corporate governance guidelines, Board committee charters and codes of ethics. Such documents are also available in published form, free of charge, to any stockholder who requests them by writing to the Investor Relations Department at AMETEK, Inc., 37 North Valley Road, Building 4, Paoli, Pennsylvania 19301.  

 Products and Services  

 The Company markets its products worldwide through two operating groups, the Electronic Instruments Group (“EIG”) and the Electromechanical Group (“EMG”). EIG builds monitoring, testing, calibration and display devices for the process, aerospace, industrial and power markets. EMG is a supplier of electromechanical devices. EMG produces highly engineered electromechanical connectors for hermetic (moisture-proof) applications, specialty metals for niche markets and brushless air-moving motors, blowers and heat exchangers. End markets include aerospace, defense, mass transit, medical, office products and other industrial markets. The Company believes that EMG is the world’s largest manufacturer of air-moving electric motors for vacuum cleaners and is a prominent producer of motors for other floor care products. The Company continues to grow through strategic acquisitions focused on differentiated niche markets in instrumentation and electromechanical devices.  

 Competitive Strengths  

 Management believes that the Company has several significant competitive advantages that assist it in sustaining and enhancing its market positions. Its principal strengths include:  

 Significant Market Share. AMETEK maintains a significant share in many of its targeted niche markets because of its ability to produce and deliver high-quality products at competitive prices. In EIG, the Company maintains significant market positions in many niche segments within the process, aerospace, industrial and power instrumentation markets. In EMG, the Company maintains significant market positions in many niche segments including aerospace, defense, mass transit, medical, office products and air-moving motors for the floor care market.  

 Technological and Development Capabilities. AMETEK believes it has certain technological advantages over its competitors that allow it to develop innovative products and maintain leading market positions. Historically, the Company has grown by extending its technical expertise into the manufacture of customized products for its customers, as well as through strategic acquisitions. EIG competes primarily on the basis of product innovation in several highly specialized instrumentation markets, including process measurement, aerospace, power and heavy-vehicle dashboard instrumentation. EMG’s differentiated businesses focus on  

 2   
 developing customized products for specialized applications in aerospace and defense, medical, business machines and other industrial applications. In its cost-driven motor business, EMG focuses on low-cost design and manufacturing, while enhancing motor-blower performance through advances in power, efficiency, lighter weight and quieter operation.  

 Efficient and Low-Cost Manufacturing Operations. EMG has motor manufacturing plants in China, the Czech Republic, Mexico and Brazil to lower its costs and achieve strategic proximity to its customers, providing the opportunity to increase international sales and market share. Certain of the Company’s electronic instrument businesses are also relocating manufacturing operations to low-cost locales. Furthermore, strategic acquisitions and joint ventures in Europe, North America and Asia have resulted in additional cost savings and synergies through the consolidation of operations, product lines and distribution channels, which benefits both operating groups.  

 Experienced Management Team. Another key component of AMETEK’s success is the strength of its management team and its commitment to the performance of the Company. AMETEK’s senior management has extensive experience, averaging approximately 23 years with the Company, and is financially committed to the Company’s success through Company-established stock ownership guidelines and equity incentive programs.  

 Business Strategy  

 AMETEK’s objectives are to increase the Company’s earnings and financial returns through a combination of operational and financial strategies. Those operational strategies include business acquisitions, new product development, global and market expansion and Operational Excellence programs designed to achieve double-digit annual percentage growth in earnings per share over the business cycle and a superior return on total capital. To support those operational objectives, financial initiatives have been, or may be, undertaken, including public and private debt or equity issuance, bank debt refinancing, local financing in certain foreign countries, accounts receivable securitization and share repurchases. AMETEK’s commitment to earnings growth is reflected in its continued implementation of cost-reduction programs designed to achieve the Company’s long-term best-cost objectives.  

 AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan consists of four key strategies:  

 Operational Excellence. Operational Excellence is AMETEK’s cornerstone strategy for improving profit margins and strengthening the Company’s competitive position across its businesses. Through its Operational Excellence strategy, the Company seeks to reduce production costs and improve its market positions. The strategy has played a key role in achieving synergies from newly acquired companies. AMETEK believes that Operational Excellence, which focuses on Six Sigma process improvements, global sourcing and lean manufacturing and also emphasizes team building and a participative management culture, has enabled the Company to improve operating efficiencies and product quality, increase customer satisfaction and yield higher cash flow from operations, while lowering operating and administrative costs and shortening manufacturing cycle times.  

 New Product Development. One of AMETEK’s greatest strengths is the ability to develop innovative new products and bring them to market successfully. Recent product introductions include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 3   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Global and Market Expansion. AMETEK’s largest presence outside the United States is in Europe, where it has operations in the United Kingdom, Germany, Denmark, Italy, the Czech Republic, Romania, France, Austria and the Netherlands. These operations provide design and engineering capability, product-line breadth, enhanced European distribution channels and low-cost production. AMETEK has a leading market position in European floor care motors and a significant presence in many of its instrument businesses. It has grown sales in Latin America and Asia by building and expanding low-cost electric motor and instrument plants in Reynosa, Mexico and motor manufacturing plants near Sao Paulo, Brazil and in Shanghai, China. It also continues to achieve geographic expansion and market expansion in Asia through joint ventures in China, Taiwan and Japan and a direct sales and marketing presence in Singapore, Japan, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea, the Middle East and Russia.  

 Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances. The Company continues to pursue strategic acquisitions, both domestically and internationally, to expand and strengthen its product lines, improve its market share positions and increase earnings through sales growth and operational efficiencies at the acquired businesses. Since the beginning of 2004, through December 31, 2008, the Company has completed 23 acquisitions with annualized sales totaling approximately $1.0 billion, including 6 acquisitions in 2008 representing approximately $290 million in annualized sales (see “Recent Acquisitions”). Those acquisitions have enhanced AMETEK’s position in analytical instrumentation, aerospace, and electrical interconnects and packaging. Through these and prior acquisitions, the Company’s management team has gained considerable experience in successfully acquiring and integrating new businesses. The Company intends to continue to pursue this acquisition strategy.  

 2008 Overview  

 Operating Performance  

 In 2008, AMETEK generated sales of $2.5 billion, an increase of 18% from 2007, and increased net income by 8%. The Company set records for sales, operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. This strong performance was driven by strong internal growth in each of the Company’s two reportable segments, the contribution of recently acquired businesses and the Company’s continuing cost reduction initiatives.  

 Financing  

 In the third quarter of 2008, the Company completed a private placement agreement to sell $350 million in senior notes to a group of institutional investors. There were two funding dates for the senior notes. The first funding occurred in September 2008 for $250 million, consisting of $90 million in aggregate principal amount of  

 4   
 6.59% senior notes due September 2015 and $160 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.08% senior notes due September 2018. The second funding date occurred in December 2008 for $100 million, consisting of $35 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.69% senior notes due December 2015 and $65 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.18% senior notes due December 2018. The senior notes carry a weighted average interest rate of 6.93%. The proceeds from the senior notes were used to pay down a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Company’s revolving credit facility.  

 In July 2008, the Company repaid the $225 million 7.20% senior notes due July 2008 using the proceeds from borrowings under its existing revolving credit facility. Also in July 2008, the Company obtained the second funding of $80 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.35% senior notes due July 2018 under the 2007 private placement agreement, which completed the sale of $450 million in senior notes to a group of institutional investors. The first funding of the 2007 private placement occurred in December 2007 for $370 million, consisting of $270 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.20% senior notes due December 2017 and $100 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.30% senior notes due December 2019.  

 The accounts receivable securitization facility was amended and restated in May 2008, extending the expiration date from May 2008 to May 2009, and bringing the borrowing capacity to $100 million, from $110 million previously.  

 Recent Acquisitions  

 The Company spent $463.0 million for six business acquisitions and one technology line acquisition in 2008. The six businesses acquired have annualized sales of approximately $290 million.  

 In February 2008, the Company acquired Drake Air (“Drake”). Drake is a provider of heat-transfer repair services to the commercial aerospace industry. Drake is a part of EMG.  

 In February 2008, the Company acquired Motion Control Group (“MCG”). MCG is a leading global manufacturer of highly customized motors and motion control solutions for the medical, life sciences, industrial automation, semiconductor and aviation markets. MCG is a part of EMG.  

 In April 2008, the Company acquired Reading Alloys. Reading Alloys is a global leader in specialty titanium master alloys and highly engineered metal powders used in the aerospace, medical implant, military and electronics markets. Reading Alloys is a part of EMG.  

 In June 2008, the Company acquired Vision Research, Inc. Vision Research is a leading manufacturer of high-speed digital imaging systems used for motion capture and analysis in numerous test and measurement applications. Vision Research is a part of EIG.  

 In August 2008, the Company acquired the programmable power business of Xantrex Technology, Inc. (“Xantrex Programmable”). Xantrex Programmable is a leader in alternating current (“AC”) and direct current (“DC”) programmable power supplies used to test electrical and electronic products. Xantrex Programmable is a part of EIG.  

 In November 2008, the Company acquired UK-based Muirhead Aerospace Limited (“Muirhead”). Muirhead is a leading manufacturer of motion technology products and a provider of avionics repair and overhaul services for the aerospace and defense markets. Muirhead is a part of EMG.  

 Financial Information About Reportable Segments, Foreign Operations and Export Sales  

 Information with respect to reportable segments and geographic areas is set forth in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 The Company’s international sales increased 16% to $1,225.5 million in 2008. The increase was driven by both internal growth and acquisitions. The Company increased export sales of products manufactured in the United States, as well as sales from overseas operations. International sales represented 48% of consolidated net sales in 2008 compared with 49% in 2007.  

 5   
 Description of Business  

 The products and markets of each reportable segment are described below:  

 EIG  

 EIG is comprised of a group of differentiated businesses. EIG applies its specialized market focus and technology to manufacture instruments used for testing, monitoring, calibration and display for the process, aerospace, industrial and power markets. EIG’s growth is based on the four strategies outlined in AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. EIG designs products that, in many instances, are significantly different from, or technologically better than, competing products. It has reduced costs by implementing operational improvements, achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply chain management, moving production to low-cost locales and reducing headcount. EIG is among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it serves, including aerospace engine sensors, heavy-vehicle instrument panels, analytical instrumentation, level measurement products, power instruments and pressure gauges. It has joint venture operations in Japan, China and Taiwan. 53% of EIG’s 2008 sales were to markets outside the United States.  

 At December 31, 2008, EIG employed approximately 5,700 people, of whom approximately 900 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. EIG had 48 manufacturing facilities: 33 in the United States, seven in the United Kingdom, three in Germany and one each in France, Austria, Denmark, Argentina and Canada at December 31, 2008. EIG also shares manufacturing facilities with EMG in Mexico.  

 Process and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products  

 65% of EIG’s 2008 sales were from instruments for process and analytical measurement and analysis. These include: oxygen, moisture, combustion and liquid analyzers; emission monitors; spectrometers; mechanical and electronic pressure sensors and transmitters; radiation measurement devices; level measurement devices; precision pumping systems; and force-measurement and materials testing instrumentation. EIG’s focus is on the process industries, including oil, gas and petrochemical refining, power generation, specialty gas production, water and waste treatment, natural gas distribution and semiconductor manufacturing. AMETEK’s analytical instruments are also used for precision measurement in a number of other applications including radiation detection for Homeland Security, materials analysis, nanotechnology research and other test and measurement applications.  

 Vision Research, acquired in June 2008, is a global leader and innovator in high-speed digital imaging technology. Its highly differentiated products include a broad array of high-speed digital cameras for capturing data in product characterization and motion analysis applications, including a high-speed digital camera, the Phantom® v12, capable of capturing one million pictures per second.  

 Cameca SAS (“Cameca”), acquired in August 2007, manufactures high-end elemental analysis systems used in advanced laboratory research, semiconductor and nanotechnology applications. Cameca’s instruments measure the elemental and isotopic composition of micro- or nanovolumes at the surface or below the surface of a solid object. This extremely sensitive technology can measure atoms down to the part-per-billion level. The customer base, which is very diverse, includes semiconductor labs, semiconductor manufacturers and academic, governmental and industrial labs engaged in advanced research in nanotechnology, metals and nuclear science.  

 Power and Industrial Instrumentation Markets and Products  

 19% of EIG’s 2008 sales were to the power and industrial instrumentation markets.  

 AMETEK’s Power businesses provide analytical instruments, uninterruptible power supply systems and programmable power supplies used in a wide variety of industrial settings.  

 EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of power measurement and recording instrumentation used by the electric power and manufacturing industries. Those products include power transducers and meters, event and transient recorders, annunciators and alarm monitoring systems used to measure, monitor and record variables in the transmission and distribution of electric power.  

 6   
 EIG’s Solidstate Controls designs and manufactures uninterruptible power supply systems for the process and power generation industries. EIG also manufactures sensor systems for land-based gas turbines and for boilers and burners used by the utility, petrochemical, process and marine industries worldwide.  

 EIG’s programmable power business is a leader in programmable AC and DC power sources and pursues growth opportunities in the highly attractive electronic test and measurement equipment market.  

 Xantrex Programmable, acquired in July 2008, is a leader in programmable AC and DC power sources used to test electrical and electronic products by simulating various input voltages, frequencies and potentially harmful line transients. Its products are used in design verification testing, manufacturing, quality assurance and regulatory compliance by its customers in a wide range of industries, including aviation, military, and general electronics.  

 California Instruments Corporation, acquired in December 2007, is a leader in programmable AC power sources used to test electrical and electronic products.  

 EIG’s Instrumentation and Specialty Controls business is a leading North American manufacturer of dashboard instruments for heavy trucks and is also among the major suppliers of similar products for construction vehicles. It has strong product development capability in solid-state instruments that primarily monitor and display engine operating parameters. Through its NCC business, EIG has a leading position in the food service instrumentation market and is a primary source for stand-alone and integrated timing controls for the food service industry.  

 Aerospace Instrumentation Markets and Products  

 16% of EIG’s 2008 sales were from aerospace products. AMETEK’s aerospace products are designed to customer specifications and are manufactured to stringent operational and reliability requirements. Its aerospace business operates in specialized markets, where its products have a technological and/or cost advantage. Acquisitions have complemented and expanded EIG’s core sensor and transducer product line, used in a wide range of aerospace applications.  

 Aerospace products include: airborne data systems; turbine engine temperature measurement products; vibration-monitoring systems; indicators; displays; fuel and fluid measurement products; sensors; switches; cable harnesses; and transducers. EIG serves all segments of commercial aerospace, including helicopters, business jets, commuter aircraft and commercial airliners, as well as the military market.  

 Among its more significant competitive advantages are EIG’s 50-plus years of experience as an aerospace supplier and its long-standing customer relationships with global commercial aircraft Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”). Its customers are the leading producers of airframes and jet engines. It also serves the commercial aerospace aftermarket with spare part sales and repair and overhaul services.  

 Advanced Industries, Inc., acquired in June 2007, manufactures starter generators, brush and brushless motors, vane-axial and centrifugal blowers, and linear actuators for the business jet, light jet and helicopter markets. These differentiated products complement the Company’s AMPHION product line of power management products for the aerospace industry and have broadened the Company’s product offering in the power management subsystem market.  

 B&S Aircraft Parts & Accessories, also acquired in June 2007, provides third-party maintenance, repair and overhaul (“MRO”) services, primarily for starter generators and hydraulic and fuel system components, for a variety of business aircraft and helicopter applications.  

 Customers  

 EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EIG’s operations. 11% of EIG’s 2008 sales were made to its five largest customers and no one customer accounted for 10% or more of 2008 consolidated net sales.  

 7   
 EMG  

 EMG is among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it serves, including highly engineered motors, blowers, fans, heat exchangers, connectors, and other electromechanical products or systems for commercial and military aerospace applications, defense, medical equipment, business machines, computers and other power or industrial applications. In its cost-driven motor business, the Company believes that EMG is the world’s largest producer of high-speed, air-moving electric motors for OEMs of floor care products. EMG designs products that, in many instances, are significantly different from, or technologically better than, competing products. It has reduced costs by implementing operational improvements, achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply chain management, moving production to low-cost locales and reducing headcount. 43% of EMG’s 2008 sales were to customers outside the United States.  

 At December 31, 2008, EMG employed approximately 5,600 people, of whom approximately 2,300 were covered by collective bargaining agreements (including some that are covered by local unions). EMG had 51 manufacturing facilities: 28 in the United States, 12 in the United Kingdom, three in France, two each in Italy, Mexico and the Czech Republic and one each in China and Brazil at December 31, 2008.  

 Differentiated Businesses  

 Differentiated businesses account for an increasing proportion of EMG’s overall sales base. Differentiated businesses represented 73% of EMG’s sales in 2008 and are comprised of the technical motors and systems businesses and the engineered materials, interconnects and packaging businesses.  

 Technical Motors and Systems Markets and Products  

 Technical motors and systems, representing 40% of EMG’s 2008 sales, consist of brushless motors, blowers and pumps, as well as other electromechanical systems. These products are used in aerospace and defense, business machines, computer equipment, mass transit vehicles, medical equipment, power, and industrial applications.  

 EMG produces electronically commutated (brushless) motors, blowers and pumps that offer long life, reliability and near maintenance-free operation. These motor-blower systems and heat exchangers are used for thermal management and other applications on a wide variety of military and commercial aircraft and military ground vehicles, and are used increasingly in medical and other applications, in which their long life, and spark-free and reliable operation is very important. These motors provide cooling and ventilation for business machines, computers and mass transit vehicles.  

 EMG’s Prestolite switch business produces solenoids and other electromechanical devices for the motive and stationary power markets. The Prestolite battery charger business manufactures high-quality industrial battery chargers for use in the materials handling market. Both the switch and battery charger businesses have strong market positions and enjoy a reputation for high quality and service.  

 Muirhead, acquired in November 2008, is a leading manufacturer of motion technology products and a provider of avionics repair and overhaul services for the aerospace and defense markets.  

 MCG, acquired in February 2008, is a leading global manufacturer of highly customized motors and motion control solutions for the medical, life sciences, industrial automation, semiconductor and aviation markets. This acquisition enhances our capability in providing precision motion technology solutions.  

 Drake, also acquired in February 2008, provides heat-transfer repair services to the commercial aerospace industry and represents a further expansion of AMETEK’s growing presence in the global aerospace MRO industry.  

 The Repair & Overhaul Division of Umeco plc (“Umeco R&O”), acquired in November 2007, provides an extensive array of MRO services for electrical and electronic equipment, fluid power devices, hydraulic components, actuation systems, landing gear, wheels and brakes and safety equipment. Umeco R&O operates from multiple locations in the United Kingdom and Toulouse and Paris, France.  

 8   
 Engineered Materials, Interconnects and Packaging Markets and Products  

 33% of EMG’s 2008 sales are engineered materials, interconnects and packaging products. AMETEK is an innovator and market leader in specialized metal powder, strip, wire and bonded products. It produces stainless steel and nickel clad alloys; stainless steel, cobalt and nickel alloy powders; metal strip; specialty shaped and electronic wire; and advanced metal matrix composites used in electronic thermal management. Its products are used in automotive, appliance, medical and surgical, aerospace, telecommunications, marine and general industrial applications. Its niche market focus is based upon proprietary manufacturing technology and strong customer relationships.  

 Reading Alloys, acquired in April 2008, is a niche specialty metals producer. It produces titanium master alloys and expands our position in customized titanium products. Reading Alloys adds to our capabilities in strip and foil products used in medical devices, electronic components and aerospace instruments. Its metal powder production techniques complement our existing gas and water atomization capabilities.  

 Hamilton Precision Metals, Inc., acquired in June 2007, produces precision metal strip and foil for niche markets such as metals used in medical implant devices and surgical instruments, electronic components and measurement devices for aerospace and other industrial markets.  

 Seacon Phoenix, subsequently renamed AMETEK SCP, Inc., acquired in April 2007, produces undersea electrical interconnect subsystems for the global submarine market. It added to the Company’s position in highly engineered hermetically sealed electrical interconnects and microelectronics packaging used to protect sophisticated electronics in aerospace, defense, telecommunications and industrial applications.  

 Floor Care and Specialty Motor Markets and Products  

 27% of EMG’s 2008 sales are to floor care and specialty motor markets, where it has the leading share, through its sales of air-moving electric motors to most of the world’s major floor care OEMs, including vertically integrated OEMs that produce some of their own motors. EMG produces motor-blowers for a full range of floor care products, ranging from hand-held, canister and upright vacuums to central vacuums for residential use. High-performance vacuum motors also are marketed for commercial and industrial applications.  

 The Company also manufactures a variety of specialty motors used in a wide range of products, such as household and personal care appliances; fitness equipment; electric materials handling vehicles; and sewing machines. Additionally, its products are used in outdoor power equipment, such as electric chain saws, leaf blowers, string trimmers and power washers.  

 EMG has been successful in directing a portion of its global floor care marketing at vertically integrated vacuum cleaner manufacturers, who seek to outsource all or part of their motor production. By purchasing their motors from EMG, these customers are able to realize economic and operational advantages by reducing or discontinuing their own motor production and avoiding the capital investment required to keep their motor manufacturing current with changing technologies and market demands.  

 New Product Development  

 EMG focuses its new product development on reducing costs and achieving performance enhancements for its advanced motors and blowers, electrical connectors and microelectronics packaging; motion control products; industrial battery chargers and heat exchangers; and specialty metal alloys and powders. These include the latest versions of its Glassealtm and Sealtron tm electrical connectors; Pittman® and MCGtm motors and motion control components; INFIN-A-TEK® and FLO-TEKtm high-performance vacuum motors; and HPM® metal strip and Reading Alloys® high-purity titanium alloys and powders.  

 Customers  

 EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EMG’s operations. 14% of EMG’s 2008 sales were made to its five largest customers and no one customer accounted for 10% or more of 2008 consolidated net sales.  

 9   
 Marketing  

 The Company’s marketing efforts generally are organized and carried out at the division level. EIG makes significant use of distributors and sales representatives in marketing its products, as well as direct sales in some of its more technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, its specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers. Given the technical nature of many of its products, as well as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts much of its domestic and international marketing activities through a direct sales force and makes some use of sales representatives and distributors both in the United States and in other countries.  

 Competition  

 In general, most of the Company’s markets are highly competitive. The principal elements of competition for the Company’s products are price, product technology, distribution, quality and service.  

 In the markets served by EIG, the Company believes that it ranks among the leading U.S. producers of certain measuring and control instruments. It also is a leader in the U.S. heavy-vehicle instrumentation and power instrument markets and one of the leading instrument and sensor suppliers to the commercial aviation market. Competition remains strong and can intensify for certain EIG products, especially its pressure gauge and heavy-vehicle instrumentation products. Both of these businesses have several strong competitors. In the process and analytical instruments market, numerous companies in each specialized market compete on the basis of product quality, performance and innovation. The aerospace and power instrument businesses have a number of diversified competitors, which vary depending on the specific market niche.  

 EMG’s differentiated businesses have competition from a limited number of companies in each of their markets. Competition is generally based on product innovation, performance and price. There also is competition from alternative materials and processes. In its cost-driven businesses, EMG has limited domestic competition in the U.S. floor care market from independent manufacturers. Competition is increasing from Asian motor manufacturers that serve both the U.S. and the European floor care markets. Increasingly, global vacuum motor production is being shifted to Asia where AMETEK has a smaller but growing market position. There is potential competition from vertically integrated manufacturers of floor care products that produce their own motor-blowers. Many of these manufacturers would also be potential EMG customers if they decided to outsource their motor production.  

 Backlog and Seasonal Variations of Business  

 The Company’s backlog of unfilled orders by business segment was as follows at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The higher backlog at December 31, 2008 was primarily due to the six businesses acquired in 2008, partially offset by the negative impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar when compared to the British pound and Euro.  

 Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at December 31, 2008, approximately 84% is expected to be shipped by December 31, 2009. The Company believes that neither its business as a whole, nor either of its reportable segments, is subject to significant seasonal variations, although certain individual operations experience some seasonal variability.  

 Availability of Raw Materials  

 The Company’s reportable segments obtain raw materials and supplies from a variety of sources and generally from more than one supplier. However, for EMG, certain items, including various base metals and certain steel  

 10   
 components, are available only from a limited number of suppliers. The Company believes its sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for its needs.  

 Research, Product Development and Engineering  

 The Company is committed to research, product development and engineering activities that are designed to identify and develop potential new and improved products or enhance existing products. Research, product development and engineering costs before customer reimbursement were $115.9 million, $102.9 million and $87.6 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Customer reimbursements in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $6.1 million, $7.1 million and $6.4 million, respectively. These amounts included net Company-funded research and development expenses of $57.5 million, $52.9 million and $42.0 million, respectively. All such expenditures were directed toward the development of new products and processes and the improvement of existing products and processes.  

 Environmental Matters  

 Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth in the section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations entitled “Environmental Matters” and in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Patents, Licenses and Trademarks  

 The Company owns numerous unexpired U.S. patents and foreign patents, including counterparts of its more important U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the world. The Company is a licensor or licensee under patent agreements of various types and its products are marketed under various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names. However, the Company does not consider any single patent or trademark, or any group thereof, essential either to its business as a whole or to either of its business segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license agreements are not significant to either of its reportable segments or to the Company’s overall operations.  

 Employees  

 At December 31, 2008, the Company employed approximately 11,700 people in its EMG, EIG and corporate operations, of whom approximately 3,200 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Company has one collective bargaining agreement that will expire in 2009, which covers less than 20 employees. The Company expects no material adverse effects from the pending labor contract negotiation.  

 Working Capital Practices  

 The Company does not have extraordinary working capital requirements in either of its reportable segments. Customers generally are billed at normal trade terms, which may include extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely controlled and maintained at levels related to production cycles and are responsive to the normal delivery requirements of customers.  

  Item 1A.    Risk Factors