Item 1A. Risk Factors  

You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Any of these risks could materially affect our business and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could in turn materially affect the price of our common stock.  

Our contracts (revenue arrangements) with U.S. Government customers entail certain risks.  

A decline in or a redirection of the U.S. defense budget could result in a material decrease in our sales, results of operations and cash flows.  

Our government contracts and sales are highly correlated and dependent upon the U.S. defense budget which is subject to the congressional budget authorization and appropriations process. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress in future fiscal years. DoD budgets are a function of several factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration priorities, changing national security and defense requirements, geo-political developments and actual fiscal year congressional appropriations for defense budgets. Any of these factors could result in a significant decline in, or redirection of, current and future DoD budgets and impact our future results of operations, including our sales and operating income growth rates.  

In August 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the BCA). The BCA immediately imposes spending caps that contain approximately $487 billion in reductions to the DoD base budgets over the next ten years (FY 2012 to FY 2021), compared to previously proposed DoD base budgets for the same fiscal years. An automatic sequestration process was also triggered by the BCA and becomes effective on January 3, 2013, unless modified by the enactment of new law. The sequestration process imposes additional cuts of approximately $50 billion per year to the currently proposed DoD budgets for each fiscal year beginning with FY 2013 through FY 2021.  

On February 13, 2012, President Obama submitted his FY 2013 proposed budget (FY 2013 DoD Plan) to Congress. The FY 2013 DoD Plan complies with the first phase of the BCA imposed spending cuts. The FY 2013 DoD Plan reduces proposed DoD base budgets by $259 billion for FY 2013 to FY 2017, compared to the previously proposed DoD base budgets. The enacted DoD budget (base and OCO) for FY 2012 is 6% lower than the FY 2011 enacted budget. In addition, the FY 2013 DoD Plan projects a decline in the total DoD budget of 5% in FY 2013 and 6% in FY 2014, and a 2% increase in each year beginning in FY 2015 through FY 2017. The FY 2013 DoD Plan does not address or provision for the automatic sequestration process.  

20  

Table of Contents 

The declining DoD budgets will reduce funding for some of our revenue arrangements and generally will have a negative impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the planned withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2014 is expected to negatively impact our sales related to supporting U.S. military operations in Afghanistan.  

We rely predominantly on sales to U.S. Government entities, and the loss or delay of a significant number of our contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.  

Our sales are predominantly derived from contracts (revenue arrangements) with agencies of, and prime system contractors to, the U.S. Government. The loss or delay of all or a substantial portion of our sales to the U.S. Government would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Approximately 82%, or $12.4 billion, of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 were made directly or indirectly to U.S. Government agencies, including the DoD. Aggregate sales from our five largest contracts (revenue arrangements) amounted to approximately $1.7 billion, or 11% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our largest contract (revenue arrangement) in terms of annual sales was the Fort Rucker Maintenance Support contract with the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command, which is included in our AM&M segment. Under this contract, which generated approximately 3% of our 2011 sales, we provide maintenance and logistical support services for rotary wing aircraft assigned to Fort Rucker and satellite units in Alabama. The current contract is expected to end on September 30, 2012. We submitted our proposal in November 2011 for the contract re-competition and anticipate the award will be made by August 2012. We cannot provide any assurance that we will win the re-competition of the Fort Rucker Maintenance Support contract.  

A substantial majority of our total sales are for products and services under contracts with various agencies and procurement offices of the DoD or with prime contractors to the DoD. Although these various agencies, procurement offices and prime contractors are subject to common budgetary pressures and other factors, our customers exercise independent purchasing decisions. Because of this concentration of contracts, if a significant number of our DoD contracts and subcontracts are simultaneously delayed or cancelled for budgetary, performance or other reasons, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.  

In addition to contract cancellations and declines in agency budgets, our backlog and future financial results may be adversely affected by:  

   •    curtailment of the U.S. Government’s use of technology or other services and product providers, including curtailment due to government budget reductions and related fiscal matters;  

   •    developments in Afghanistan, or other geopolitical developments that affect demand for our products and services;  

   •    our ability to hire and retain personnel to meet increasing demand for our services; and  

   •    technological developments that impact purchasing decisions or our competitive position.  

The DoD’s wide-ranging efficiencies initiative, which targets affordability and cost growth, could have a material effect on the procurement process and may adversely affect our existing contracts and the award of new contracts.  

The U.S. Government has issued guidance regarding changes to the procurement process that is intended to control cost growth throughout the acquisition cycle by developing a competitive strategy for each program. As a result, the Company expects to engage in more frequent negotiations and re-competitions on a cost or price analysis basis with every competitive bid in which it participates. This initiative is organized into five major areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services acquisition; and  

21  

Table of Contents 

 processes and bureaucracy. Because this initiative significantly changes the way the U.S. Government solicits, negotiates and manages its contracts, this initiative could result in a reduction in expenditures for the type of products we manufacture for, and services we provide to, the U.S. Government and could have a material negative impact on our future sales, earnings and cash flows.  

In addition, the FY 2013 DoD Plan seeks reductions in contractor support services and consolidation of enterprise IT systems as part of an effort to achieve another $60 billion of efficiency savings over the five fiscal years FY 2013 through FY 2017. This initiative will primarily affect our businesses within the Government Services reportable segment and could result in the loss of certain of our existing contracts (revenue arrangements) depending on how the DoD implements this initiative.  

Our government contracts contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to audit and modification. If a termination right is exercised by the government, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Companies engaged primarily in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to certain business risks peculiar to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally:  

   •    suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations;  

   •    terminate existing contracts;  

   •    reduce the value of existing contracts; and  

   •    audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs.  

All of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Our contracts with foreign governments generally contain similar provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the customer.  

U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate our costs and performance on contracts, as well as our accounting and general business practices. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. Government may adjust our contract related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, under U.S. Government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including certain business acquisition costs, most financing costs, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be reimbursable under U.S. Government contracts.  

We currently have a backlog of funded orders, primarily under contracts with the U.S. Government. Our total funded backlog was $10,695 million at December 31, 2011. As described above, the U.S. Government may unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us. Accordingly, most of our backlog could be modified or terminated by the U.S. Government, which would negatively impact our future sales, results of operations and cash flows.  

22  

Table of Contents 

We may not be able to win competitively awarded contracts or receive required licenses to export our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.  

Our government contracts are subject to competitive bidding. We obtain many of our U.S. Government contracts through a competitive bidding process. We may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts. In addition, awarded contracts may not generate sales sufficient to result in our profitability. We are also subject to risks associated with the following:  

   •    the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns;  

   •    the substantial time, effort and experience required to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us;  

   •    design complexity and rapid technological obsolescence; and  

   •    the constant need for design improvement.  

In addition to these U.S. Government contract risks, we are not permitted to export some of our products and are also required to obtain licenses from U.S. Government agencies to export many of our products and systems. Failure to receive required licenses would eliminate our ability to sell our products and systems outside the United States.  

Intense competition and bid protests may adversely effect our sales, results of operations and cash flows.  

The defense and commercial industries in which our businesses operate are highly competitive. We expect that the DoD’s increased use of commercial off-the-shelf products and components in military equipment will continue to encourage new competitors to enter the market. We also expect increased competition for our products and services due to the uncertainty of future U.S. defense budgets. Furthermore, the current competitive environment has resulted in an increase of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders, which typically extends the time until work on a contract can begin. Additionally, some of our competitors are larger than we are and have more financial and other resources than we have. For more information concerning the factors that affect our ability to compete, see “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Competition” beginning on page 15.  

We are subject to government investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

U.S. Government contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements, and from time to time agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether such contracts were and are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. We are currently cooperating with the U.S. Government on several investigations, including those discussed in Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-41. Under U.S. Government regulations, an indictment of the Company by a federal grand jury, or an administrative finding against us as to our present responsibility to be a U.S. Government contractor or subcontractor, could result in us being suspended for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges. A conviction, or an administrative finding against us that satisfies the requisite level of seriousness, could result in debarment from contracting with the federal government for a specific term.  

23  

Table of Contents 

We are subject to the risks of current and future legal proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

At any given time, we are a defendant in various material legal proceedings and litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business, including litigation, claims and assessments that have been asserted against acquired businesses, which we have assumed. Although we maintain insurance policies, these policies may not be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to current or future claims and may not cover the conduct that is the subject of the litigation. Desired levels of insurance may not be available in the future at economical prices or at all. In addition, we believe that while we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us, the results of litigation can be difficult to predict, including those involving jury trials. Accordingly, our current judgment as to the likelihood of our loss (or our current estimate as to the potential range of loss, if applicable) with respect to any particular litigation matter may turn out to be wrong. A significant judgment against us, arising out of any of our current or future legal proceedings and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. For a discussion of material litigation to which we are currently a party, see Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements on page F-41.  

If we are unable to keep pace with rapidly evolving products and service offerings and technological change, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

The rapid change of technology is a key feature of most of the markets in which our products, services and systems oriented businesses operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been developed through customer-funded and internally funded research and development and through certain business acquisitions. We may not be able to continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development or successfully complete such acquisitions. In the past, we have allocated substantial funds to capital expenditures, programs and other investments. This practice will continue to be required in the future. Even so, we may not be able to successfully identify new opportunities and may not have the necessary financial resources to develop new products and systems in a timely or cost-effective manner. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products, services and systems obsolete or non-competitive.  

Our business acquisition strategy involves risks, and we may not successfully implement our strategy.  

We opportunistically seek to acquire businesses that enhance our capabilities and add new technologies, products, services, programs, contracts, and customers to our existing businesses. We may not be able to continue to identify acquisition candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we make additional business acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions, including sales growth, cost synergies and improving margins. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing for business acquisitions, since such additional financing could be restricted or limited by the terms of our debt agreements or due to unfavorable credit market conditions.  

The process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Possible future business acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense and contingent liabilities, each of which could result in an increase to our already significant level of outstanding debt, as well as more restrictive covenants.  

We consider and may enter into strategic business acquisitions on an ongoing basis and may be evaluating acquisitions or engaging in acquisition negotiations at any given time. We regularly evaluate potential  

24  

Table of Contents 

 acquisitions and joint venture transactions and have not entered into any agreements with respect to any material transactions at this time. Furthermore, in certain of our business acquisitions we have assumed all claims against and liabilities of the acquired business, including both asserted and unasserted claims and liabilities.  

Goodwill represents a significant asset on our balance sheet and may become impaired.  

Goodwill represents the largest asset on our balance sheet, with an aggregate balance of $8,697 million at December 31, 2011. We review goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also review goodwill annually in accordance with the accounting standards for goodwill and intangible assets. The annual impairment test requires us to determine the fair value of our reporting units in comparison to their carrying values. A decline in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, and a related non-cash impairment charge against earnings, if estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. The fair value of eight of our reporting units exceeded the carrying value of the net assets of those reporting units by less than 20% at November 30, 2011. In addition, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $43 million in 2011 due to a decline in the estimated fair value of the Marine Services business, which is part of the Electronic Systems segment, as a result of a decline in its projected future cash flows. A decline in the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” beginning on page 41.  

Our results of operations and cash flows are substantially affected by our mix of fixed-price, cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts.  

Our sales are transacted using written revenue arrangements, or contracts, which are generally fixed-price, cost-plus or time-and-material. For a description of our revenue recognition policies, see “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” beginning on page 41.  

The table below presents the percentage of our total sales generated from each contract-type.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Substantially all of our cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. Substantially all of our sales to commercial customers are transacted under fixed-price sales arrangements, and are included in our fixed-price type contract sales.  

On a fixed-price type contract (revenue arrangement), we agree to perform the contractual statement of work for a predetermined sales price. Although a fixed-price type contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract.  

On a cost-plus type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract’s fee arrangement up to predetermined funding levels  

25  

Table of Contents 

 determined by our customers. On a time-and-material type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid on the basis of direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly rates (that include wages, overhead, allowable general and administrative expenses and profit) and materials at cost. Therefore, on cost-plus type and time-and-material type contracts, we do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the predetermined funded amounts.  

Additionally, the impact of revisions in profit or loss estimates for all types of contracts subject to percentage of completion accounting are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions are made. Provisions for anticipated losses on contracts are recorded in the period in which they become evident. Amounts representing contract change orders or claims are included in sales only when they can be reliably estimated and their realization is reasonably assured. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant, can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as reduce the valuations of receivables and inventories; and in some cases, result in liabilities to complete contracts in a loss position.  

Our significant level of debt and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.  

At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $4,139 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt. In addition, at December 31, 2011 we had borrowing capacity of $997 million available to us under our three-year $1 billion revolving credit facility that was due to expire on October 23, 2012 (Revolving Credit Facility), after reductions of $3 million for outstanding letters of credit. On February 3, 2012, we amended and restated our Revolving Credit Facility (Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility), which also extended the expiration date to February 3, 2017. In the future, we may increase our borrowings, subject to limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. The first scheduled maturity of our existing debt is our $500 million aggregate principal amount of our 63/8% Senior Subordinated Notes maturing October 15, 2015. See “Part II – Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt” beginning on page 62 and Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to refinance our existing debt depends on our future financial performance as well as our ability to access the capital markets, and the relative attractiveness of available financing terms. We do not have complete control over our future financial performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial (including credit market conditions), competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the aerospace and defense industry, as well as commercial industries in which we operate. It is possible that in the future our businesses may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If this situation occurs, we may have to reduce costs and expenses, sell assets, restructure debt or obtain additional equity capital. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms in accordance with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to us. These consequences may include:  

   •    requiring a substantial portion of our net cash flow from operations to be used to pay interest and principal on our debt and therefore be unavailable for other purposes, including acquisitions, capital expenditures, paying dividends to our shareholders, repurchasing shares of our common stock, research and development and other investments;  

   •    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments or other expenditures, which, in each case, may limit our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy;  

   •    increasing interest expense due to higher interest rates on our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility as it has a variable interest rate;  

   •    heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in the general economy and restricting us from making acquisitions, introducing new technologies and products or exploiting business opportunities; and  

26  

Table of Contents 

   •    impacting debt covenants that limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends to our shareholders or repurchase shares of our common stock. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness.  

Additionally, on December 31, 2011, we had $9,212 million of contractual obligations (including outstanding indebtedness). For a detailed listing of the components of our contractual obligations, see “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations” on page 64.  

Our debt agreements restrict our ability to finance our future operations and, if we are unable to meet our financial ratios, could cause our existing debt to be accelerated.  

Our debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to:  

   •    sell assets;  

   •    incur more indebtedness;  

   •    repay certain indebtedness;  

   •    make certain investments or business acquisitions;  

   •    make certain capital expenditures;  

   •    engage in business mergers or consolidations; and  

   •    engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates.  

These restrictions could impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. In addition, some of our debt agreements also require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios, including (1) total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to total consolidated cash interest expense, (2) total consolidated funded indebtedness less designated cash balances to total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and (3) consolidated senior indebtedness less designated cash balances to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Our ability to comply with these ratios and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these agreements or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or covenants could result in a default under those debt agreements. In the event of any such default, the lenders under those debt agreements could elect to:  

   •    declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees to be due and immediately payable;  

   •    require us to apply all of our available cash to repay our outstanding senior debt; and  

   •    prevent us from making debt service payments on our other debt.  

For further discussion of our financial ratios, debt agreements and other payment restrictions, see Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements on page F-23.  

27  

Table of Contents 

If we are unable to attract and retain key management and personnel, we may become unable to operate our business effectively.  

Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management, and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical personnel, including employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly clearances of top-secret and above. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies for members of our management. We face competition for management and technical personnel from other companies and organizations. Failure to attract and retain such personnel would damage our future prospects.  

Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liability.  

Our operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local as well as certain foreign environmental laws and regulations within the countries in which we operate relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations.  

New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements may require us to incur a significant amount of additional costs in the future and could decrease the amount of cash flow available to us for other purposes, including capital expenditures, research and development and other investments and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

Our sales to certain foreign customers expose us to risks associated with operating internationally.  

For the year ended December 31, 2011, sales to foreign customers, excluding our foreign sales made under FMS agreements directly between the U.S. Government and allied foreign governments, represented approximately 11% of our consolidated sales. Consequently, our businesses are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following:  

   •    export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports;  

   •    compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar non-U.S. regulations;  

   •    the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties and technical standards and changes in those regulations;  

   •    contract award and funding delays;  

   •    potential restrictions on transfers of funds;  

   •    currency fluctuations;  

   •    import and export duties and value added taxes;  

   •    transportation delays and interruptions;  

   •    uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations; and  

   •    potential military conflicts and political risks.  

While we have and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of our foreign business, we cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions.  

As a U.S. defense contractor, we face various security threats, including cyber security attacks to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent disruptions in mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of confidential information and corruption of data. Accordingly, any significant operational delays, or any destruction, manipulation or improper use of our data, information systems or networks could adversely affect our financial results and damage the reputation for our products and services.  

We announced the planned spin-off of a part of our Government Services segment into a new, independent publicly traded company, which will be named Engility. This transaction will likely require significant time and attention of our management and we may not be able to complete the transaction or, if completed, realize the anticipated benefits.  

On July 28, 2011, we announced a plan to spin-off a part of our Government Services segment. In order to effectuate the spin-off, among other things, we will be required to file a registration statement on Form 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our ability to complete the spin-off in a timely manner, if at all, could be subject to several factors, including but not limited to: (1) changes in the newly created entity’s operating performance, (2) our ability to obtain any necessary consents or approvals, (3) our ability to obtain any necessary financing for the newly created entity as well as the terms of such financing, (4) changes in governmental regulations, (5) changes in the underlying businesses, its contracts, or customers, (6) overall political and economic conditions at the time of the spin-off, and (7) obtaining an opinion of counsel as to the satisfaction of certain requirements necessary for the spin-off to receive tax-free treatment upon which the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) does not rule. Additionally, execution of the proposed spin-off transaction will likely require significant time and attention from management, which could distract management from the operation of our business and the execution of our other strategic initiatives. We may not be able to complete the spin-off within the expected time frame or complete the spin-off at all. In addition, even if completed, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the spin-off.  

The Company’s proposed spin-off of Engility could result in substantial tax liability to the Company and its shareholders.  

We have received an IRS Ruling stating that L-3 and its shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off. In addition, certain requirements for tax-free treatment that are not covered in the IRS Ruling will be addressed in an opinion of counsel which we expect to receive immediately prior to the completion of the spin-off. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS. Accordingly, the IRS or the courts may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion of counsel. Moreover, both the IRS Ruling and the opinion of counsel are based on certain factual statements and representations made by us, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could invalidate the IRS Ruling or opinion of counsel.  

If, notwithstanding receipt of the IRS Ruling and opinion of counsel, the spin-off and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, then we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. In addition, if the spin-off were taxable, each holder of our common stock who receives shares of Engility would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of Engility received.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Item 2. Properties