Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

Interest Rate Risks  

Our financial results are affected by changes in U.S. and foreign interest rates. As part of managing this risk, we enter into interest rate exchange agreements to convert certain floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt and vice versa. The overall objective of our interest rate risk management is to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate debt. We continually monitor our mix of floating- and fixed-rate debt and adjust the mix, as necessary, based on our evaluation of internal and external factors. The difference between the rates our Manufacturing group received and the rates it paid on interest rate exchange agreements did not significantly impact interest expense in 2008, 2007 or 2006.  

Our Finance group limits its risk to changes in interest rates with its strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. This strategy includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. At January 3, 2009, floating-rate liabilities in excess of floating-rate assets were $3.0 billion, net of $2.1 billion of interest rate exchange agreements, which effectively converted fixed-rate debt to a floating-rate equivalent. Classified within fixed-rate assets are $3.0 billion of floating rate loans with index rate floors that are, on average, 224 basis points above the applicable index rate (predominately the Prime rate). These assets will remain classified as fixed-rate until the Prime rate increases above the floor rates. We have benefited from the interest rate floor arrangements in the recent low rate environment; however, in a rising rate environment, this benefit will dissipate until the Prime rate exceeds the floor rates embedded in these agreements. The net effect of interest rate exchange agreements designated as hedges of debt decreased interest expense for our Finance group by $25 million in 2008 and increased interest expense by $25 million and $27 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

40   

Foreign Exchange Risks  

Our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the foreign markets in which products are manufactured and/or sold. For 2008, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes from 2007 increased revenues by approximately $90 million (0.7%) and decreased segment profit by approximately $2 million (0.1%).  

For our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. We primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and British pound sterling for these purposes. In managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. These contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The notional amount of outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts and foreign currency options was approximately $1.0 billion at the end of 2008 and $1.1 billion at the end of 2007.  

Quantitative Risk Measures  

In the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. To quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. The financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements, foreign currency exchange contracts and marketable security price forward contracts for our common stock. We utilize forward contracts for our common stock to manage the expense related to our stock-based compensation awards.  

Presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. We estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. This sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates, a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the U.S. dollar and a 10% decrease in the quoted market price of our common stock.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   The value represents an asset or (liability).   

41   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data