Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Business Overview  

Revenues increased 13% to $14.2 billion, while segment profit decreased 7% to $1.5 billion in 2008, compared with 2007. The revenue increase was largely due to the acquisition of AAI Corporation (AAI), higher volume in our aerospace and defense businesses, and pricing. The decrease in segment profit was largely due to higher loan loss provisions in the commercial finance business, partially offset by the impact of the higher volume and pricing. See pages 18 through 27 for more discussion of these changes on a consolidated basis and by segment.  

During the second half of the year, turmoil in the capital markets and the deepening recession significantly impacted many of our businesses. On December 22, 2008, we announced our current plan to exit the non-captive commercial finance business in the Finance segment. We also announced a restructuring program designed to reduce costs across the company. This program, together with other volume-related reductions in workforce announced through January 2009, will eliminate approximately 15% of our workforce worldwide. As a result of the exit plan and the restructuring program, we incurred special charges totaling $526 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. These charges included a $293 million charge to mark-to-market finance receivables now designated as held for sale, a $169 million impairment charge to write off all of the Finance segment’s goodwill and $64 million in restructuring charges. See page 19 for a discussion of these special charges.  

Earnings per share from continuing operations decreased largely due to the special charges and a $31 million tax charge related to the change in investment status of a Canadian subsidiary in the Finance segment, which had a combined impact of $1.79 per share, and lower segment profit, largely reflecting an increase in loan loss provisions at our Finance segment.  

Backlog at the end of 2008 totaled $23.3 billion, a 23% increase from the prior year. Bell’s backlog increased $2.4 billion in 2008, largely due to the V-22 multi-year contract, and Cessna’s backlog increased $1.9 billion, largely due to orders received for the wide-body long-range Citation Columbus jet. At Cessna, while generally only firm aircraft orders for which we have received deposits are included in backlog, we have experienced deferrals that delay the delivery of commercial aircraft to later years, as well as cancellations of orders within backlog. See the “Backlog” section on page 5 for more information. For 2009, we have lowered our planned jet production level based on our current estimates. We expect ongoing volatility in the timing of fulfillment of our Cessna backlog until economic conditions stabilize.  

Our Industrial segment saw volume decline in most of its businesses as demand softened, with the largest decline at Kautex, reflecting numerous automotive original equipment manufacturers (OEM) factory shutdowns around the world. Volume at E-Z-GO increased largely due to increased fleet car sales related to the successful introduction of our new RXV model.  

Our defense businesses have buffered some of the impact of the economy through programs with the U.S. Government. At Textron Systems, revenues increased largely due to the acquisition of AAI and continued demand for Armored Security Vehicles (ASV) and other products. While Bell experienced the loss of the Armed Reconnaissance Helicopter (ARH) program in the fourth quarter of 2008, Bell’s V-22 and H-1 programs are performing as expected. We shipped four more V-22 aircraft and two more H-1 aircraft in 2008, compared with 2007.  

Due to the current economic environment, we have experienced higher borrowing cost and, at times, limited access to the capital markets. In February 2009, we drew down on the balance of our $3.0 billion committed bank lines of credit to pay off our outstanding commercial paper and to provide us with additional liquidity during these uncertain times. See the “Recent Developments” section on pages 28 and 29 for a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources.  

17   

Consolidated Results of Operations  

In our discussion of comparative results for the Manufacturing group, changes in revenue and segment profit are typically expressed in terms of volume, pricing, foreign exchange and acquisitions. Additionally, changes in segment profit may be expressed in terms of mix, inflation and cost-performance. Volume represents changes in the number of units delivered or services provided. Pricing represents changes in unit pricing. Foreign exchange is the change resulting from translating foreign-denominated amounts into U.S. dollars at exchange rates that are different from the prior period. Acquisitions refer to the results generated from businesses that were acquired within the previous 12 months. For segment profit, mix represents a change due to the composition of products and/or services sold at different profit margins. Inflation represents higher material, wages, benefits or other costs. Cost performance reflects an increase or decrease in research and development, depreciation, warranty, product liability, quality/scrap, labor efficiency, overhead, product line profitability, start-up, ramp-up and cost reduction initiatives, or other manufacturing inputs. For U.S. Government business, performance generally refers to changes in estimated contract rates. These changes typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to total estimated costs to complete a contract that reflect improved (or deteriorated) operating performance on the contract, and are recognized by recording cumulative catch-up adjustments in the current period.  

Revenues  

Revenues increased $1.6 billion, or 13%, to $14.2 billion in 2008, compared with 2007. This increase is primarily due to the following factors in our manufacturing businesses, which were partially offset by lower revenues in the commercial finance business of $152 million:  

   •   Additional revenues from newly acquired businesses of $820 million, primarily the acquisition of AAI at Textron Systems;  

   •   Higher manufacturing volume of $514 million, reflecting:    

   –   $341 million in higher volume at Cessna, primarily related to an increase in business jet deliveries;  

   –   $134 million in higher volume at Bell, largely related to the V-22 and H-1 programs; and  

   –   $101 million in increased volume at Textron Systems from higher ASV aftermarket, Lycoming and Intelligent Battlefield Systems (IBS) products; partially offset by  

   –   $62 million decrease in the Industrial segment, principally due to lower demand at Kautex;    

   •   Higher pricing of $382 million, with $252 million at Cessna, $87 million at Bell and $34 million in the Industrial segment; and  

   •   Favorable foreign exchange impact of $95 million in the Industrial segment.    

Revenues increased $1.6 billion, or 15%, to $12.6 billion in 2007, compared with 2006. The primary reasons for this increase are:  

   •   Higher manufacturing volume of $1.0 billion, reflecting:    

   –   $631 million in higher volume at Cessna, primarily related to an increase in business jet deliveries;   

   –    $112 million increase in the Industrial segment, principally due to higher demand at Kautex;  

   –   $142 million in higher volume at Bell, largely related to the H-1 program; and  

   –   $93 million in increased volume at Textron Systems from higher ASV deliveries;    

   •   Higher pricing of $320 million, with $212 million at Cessna, $87 million in Bell’s commercial business and $22 million in the Industrial segment;  

   •   Additional revenues from newly acquired businesses of $166 million, primarily the acquisitions of Overwatch Systems and AAI;  

   •   Favorable foreign exchange impact of $115 million in the Industrial segment; and  

   •   A $66 million impact from higher average finance receivables due to growth in the aviation and resort finance businesses in the Finance segment.    

Segment Profit  

Segment profit decreased $116 million, or 7%, to $1.5 billion in 2008, compared with 2007. This decrease is primarily due to $272 million in reduced profits in the Finance segment, largely due to an increase in the provision for loan losses of $201 million, partially offset by the following factors:  

   •   A $73 million benefit from higher volume and mix reflecting $110 million in higher volume at Cessna, primarily related to an increase in business jet deliveries, offset by $54 million in lower volume and mix in the Industrial Segment;    

   •   $50 million in profit from newly acquired businesses; and    

   •   $43 million in pricing in excess of inflation reflecting $82 million in pricing in excess of inflation at Cessna and $32 million at Bell, partially offset by $61 million in inflation in excess of pricing at Industrial.    

18   

Segment profit increased $342 million, or 27%, to $1.6 billion in 2007, compared with 2006. This increase is primarily due to the following factors, which were partially offset by inflation of $240 million:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Special Charges  

Special charges for the year ended January 3, 2009, include an initial mark-to-market adjustment of $293 million that was made when we reclassified certain finance receivables from held for investment to held for sale, a goodwill impairment charge in the Finance segment of $169 million and restructuring charges of $64 million. There were no special charges in fiscal 2007 or 2006.  

As a result of the volatility and disruption in the credit markets, and in order to reduce our reliance on short-term funding, on October 13, 2008, our Board of Directors approved the recommendation of management to downsize the Finance segment. The plan approved at that time entailed exiting the Finance group’s Asset-Based Lending and Structured Capital businesses, as well as several additional product lines, and limiting new originations in the Distribution Finance, Golf Finance and Resort Finance businesses. On December 22, 2008, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit all of the commercial finance business of the Finance segment, other than that portion of the business supporting customer purchases of Textron-manufactured products. We made the decision to exit this business due to continued weakness in the economy and in order to address our long-term liquidity position in light of continuing disruption and instability in the capital markets. In total, these actions will impact approximately $7.3 billion of the Finance segment’s $10.8 billion managed receivable portfolio as of the end of 2008. The exit plan will be effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales and is expected to be substantially complete over the next two to four years. We recorded a pre-tax mark-to-market adjustment of $293 million against owned receivables held for sale due to the exit plan. At January 3, 2009, approximately $2.9 billion of the liquidating receivables were designated for sale or transfer, of which about $1.2 billion represent securitized receivables managed by the Finance segment, and $1.7 billion represent owned receivables classified as held for sale.  

Based on current market conditions and the plan to downsize the Finance segment, we recorded a $169 million pre-tax impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 to eliminate all goodwill at the Finance segment.  

In October 2008, we initiated a restructuring program to reduce overhead cost and improve productivity across the company. On December 22, 2008, the Textron Board of Directors approved an expansion of this previously announced plan, which includes corporate and segment direct and indirect workforce reductions and streamlining of administrative overhead. The program, along with other volume-related reductions in workforce during the fourth quarter of 2008 and in January 2009, eliminates approximately 6,300 positions worldwide, representing approximately 15% of our global workforce.  

We recorded pre-tax restructuring costs of $64 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to this restructuring program and the Finance segment exit plan, excluding volume-related direct labor reductions, which are recorded in segment profit. In the first half of 2009, we estimate that we will incur an additional $40 million in pre-tax restructuring costs, largely related to workforce reductions at Cessna. We may have additional restructuring costs as a result of further headcount reductions and other actions; however, an estimate of additional charges cannot be made at this time.  

19   

Special charges by segment for the year ended January 3, 2009 are as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Corporate Expenses and Other, net  

Corporate expenses and other, net decreased $86 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to lower compensation expenses, largely caused by stock depreciation.  

Corporate expenses and other, net increased $50 million in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to $26 million of higher compensation expenses, largely related to stock appreciation, $14 million of higher professional and consulting fees for corporate initiatives, $11 million of increased costs for divested operations, primarily due to higher pension costs and other retained liabilities, and a $6 million increase in our contribution to the Textron Charitable Trust, partially offset by an $8 million gain on an insurance settlement.  

Interest Expense  

Interest expense for the Manufacturing group increased $38 million to $125 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to higher borrowing costs associated with our commercial paper borrowing in 2008.  

Income Taxes  

The following table reconciles the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In 2008, the effective income tax rate was significantly impacted by the plan announced in the fourth quarter of 2008 to exit portions of the Finance segment’s business. This plan resulted in the impairment of all of the Finance segment’s goodwill, of which only a small portion was deductible for tax purposes. In addition, due to the change in the investment status of the Finance segment’s Canadian subsidiary, we incurred $31 million in additional tax expense.  

Discontinued Operations  

In November 2008, we completed the sale of our Fluid & Power business unit to Clyde Blowers Limited, a U.K.-based worldwide leader in the areas of power, materials handling, intermodal transport and logistics, and pump technologies. This sale included our Gear Technologies, Hydraulics, Maag Pump and Union Pump product lines, along with each of their respective brands. We received approximately $527 million in cash, a six-year note with a face value of $28 million and up to $50 million based on final 2008 operating results that will be determined by the  

20   

end of the first quarter of 2009, which will be primarily payable in a six-year note. We recorded an after-tax gain of $111 million for this sale. After taxes and other deal-related expenses are paid, we expect total net after-tax proceeds for the sale to be approximately $380 million, excluding any payments due to us related to the 2008 operating results.  

In August 2006, we completed the sale of our Fastening Systems business to Platinum Equity, a private equity investment firm, for approximately $613 million in cash and the assumption of $16 million of net indebtedness and certain liabilities. There was no gain or loss recorded upon completion of the sale. Prior to the consummation of the sale of the Fastening Systems business, we recorded an impairment charge of $120 million in 2006 to record the business at the estimated fair value less cost to sell.  

The Fluid & Power and Fastening Systems businesses met the discontinued operations criteria and have been included in discontinued operations for all periods presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The results of the Fluid & Power business were previously reported in the Industrial segment.  

Revenue, results of operations and gains on disposal for our discontinued businesses are as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Segment Analysis  

Effective at the beginning of fiscal 2008, we operate in, and report financial information for, the following five business segments: Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems, Industrial and Finance. Prior to 2008, we reported segment financial results within four segments: Bell, Cessna, Industrial and Finance. We changed our segment reporting to separate Textron Systems into a new segment, initially named “Defense & Intelligence,” and to report Bell Helicopter as its own segment, Bell, to reflect the manner in which we now manage these businesses. All periods presented herein have been recast to reflect the 2008 segment reporting structure.  

Segment profit is an important measure used for evaluating performance and for decision-making purposes. Segment profit for the manufacturing segments excludes interest expense, certain corporate expenses and special charges. The measurement for the Finance segment includes interest income and expense and excludes special charges.  

Cessna  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Cessna Revenues  

Cessna’s revenues increased $662 million in 2008, compared with 2007, due to higher volume of $341 million, higher pricing of $252 million and a benefit from a newly acquired business of $69 million. The higher volume primarily reflects higher jet and Caravan deliveries of $481 million, partially offset by lower used aircraft sales of $98 million and lower single engine sales of $56 million. Citation business jets are the largest component of Cessna’s revenues. We delivered 467, 387 and 307 Citation business jets in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. However, we do not expect the level of revenue growth we have experienced over the last three years to continue in the near future. Due to recent deferrals  

21   

from 2009 deliveries and cancellations, as discussed in the Backlog section on page 5, Cessna has reduced its 2009 production plan from 2008 levels. As a result of reduced production levels, Cessna announced reductions in workforce by approximately 750 employees in the fourth quarter of 2008 and an additional 4,100 employees in January 2009.  

Cessna’s backlog increased $1.9 billion, primarily due to $2.3 billion in orders received for the wide-body, long-range Citation Columbus jet, which began a multi-year development period in 2008.  

In 2007, Cessna’s revenues increased $844 million, compared with 2006, due to higher volume of $631 million, primarily due to higher Citation business jet deliveries, and improved pricing of $212 million.  

Cessna Segment Profit  

Cessna’s segment profit increased $40 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the impact of higher volume of $110 million, pricing in excess of inflation of $82 million and favorable warranty performance of $14 million, partially offset by increased engineering and product development expense of $45 million, which includes costs related to the development of new Citation models, CJ4 and Columbus, inventory writedowns of $51 million, largely related to used aircraft, and increased overhead costs of $19 million. Favorable warranty performance is primarily related to lower estimated warranty costs for aircraft sold in 2008. Segment profit also includes other favorable warranty performance of $28 million in both 2008 and 2007.  

In 2007, Cessna’s segment profit increased $220 million, compared with 2006, primarily due to improved pricing of $212 million, along with the $139 million impact of higher volume and favorable warranty performance of $14 million, partially offset by inflation of $106 million and increased engineering and product development expense of $41 million. Favorable warranty performance included the $19 million impact of lower estimated warranty costs for aircraft sold in 2007 related to initial model launches as discussed below, partially offset by a lower benefit of $5 million from other favorable warranty performance (a $28 million benefit in 2007, compared with $33 million in 2006).  

During initial model launches, Cessna typically incurs higher warranty-related costs until the production process matures, at which point warranty costs generally moderate. For the Sovereign and CJ3 models, production lines had reached this maturity level based on historical production and warranty patterns, resulting in lower estimated warranty costs than earlier production aircraft. Accordingly, Cessna has had favorable warranty performance in the past three years primarily due to the lower point-of-sale warranty costs for Sovereign and CJ3 aircraft sold.  

Bell  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Bell Revenues  

Bell’s revenues increased $246 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to higher volume of $134 million, higher pricing of $87 million and revenues from newly acquired businesses of $26 million. The increase in volume relates primarily to higher V-22 volume of $125 million (largely due to delivery of 18 aircraft in 2008, compared with 14 in 2007), higher H-1 volume of $47 million (principally due to delivery of 12 aircraft in 2008, compared with 10 in 2007), and an increase in spares and service sales volume of $28 million. These volume increases were partially offset by lower commercial helicopter volume of $54 million and lower ARH program revenues of $19 million as a result of the program’s termination in October 2008.  

Backlog at Bell increased $2.4 billion in 2008, largely due to funding under the V-22 multi-year contract approved in March 2008.  

Bell’s revenues increased $234 million in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to higher volume and mix of $141 million and higher pricing of $90 million. The increase in volume relates primarily to an increase in H-1 program revenues of $161 million, principally due to delivery of the first 10 production units, an increase in V-22 program revenues of $70 million, primarily due to higher spares revenues, and higher commercial helicopter deliveries of $50 million. These increases were partially offset by $92 million in lower spares and service sales for aircraft other than the V-22 and $44 million in lower Huey II kit deliveries.  

22   

Bell Segment Profit  

Bell’s segment profit increased $134 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to favorable cost performance of $78 million, higher pricing in excess of inflation of $32 million and $21 million in increased royalty revenues, primarily related to the Model A139. Cost performance includes:  

   •   Improved performance for the H-1 LRIP program of $46 million, primarily resulting from a $30 million net charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007 and $6 million in favorability in 2008, as discussed in more detail below;  

   •   $32 million in lower net charges for the ARH program, as discussed in more detail below;  

   •   $26 million in costs incurred in 2007 related to our exit of certain commercial models;  

   •   $14 million in commercial aircraft margins, primarily due to improved production efficiencies for the 412 and 407 models; and  

   •   $11 million for the V-22 program, primarily due to manufacturing efficiencies.    

Favorable cost performance in 2008 was partially offset by $20 million in increased selling and administrative expenses due to higher project-related consulting expenses and $14 million in increased research and development expense.  

Bell’s segment profit increased $36 million in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to higher pricing of $90 million and lower engineering, research and development expense of $16 million, partially offset by inflation of $48 million and the net impact of an unfavorable product mix of $17 million. Cost performance had only a moderate impact on profit but was impacted by the following significant items:  

   •   An increase in ARH program charges from $14 million in 2006 to $32 million in 2007, which are discussed in more detail below;  

   •   Lower H-1 LRIP program charges of $43 million, which are discussed in more detail below;  

   •   $22 million in lower V-22 profitability, largely due to a $15 million impact from lower margin units, which have been unfavorably impacted by higher overhead costs associated with increasing production capacity, and a $6 million award fee recognized in 2006; and  

   •   Vendor termination costs of $37 million as a result of streamlining our legacy commercial product lines, which were partially offset by $29 million in lower overhead expense in the commercial business.    

ARH Program Termination  

On October 16, 2008, we received notification from the U.S. Department of Defense that it would not certify the continuation of the ARH program to Congress under the Nunn-McCurdy Act, resulting in the termination of the program for the convenience of the Government. The ARH program included a development phase, covered by the SDD contract, and a production phase. We are in the process of establishing the termination costs for the SDD contract, which we believe will be fully recoverable from the U.S. Government.  

Prior to termination of the program, we obtained inventory and incurred vendor obligations for long-lead time materials related to the anticipated LRIP contracts to maintain the program schedule based on our belief that the LRIP contracts would be awarded. We have since terminated these vendor contracts and have initiated negotiations to settle our termination obligations, which we estimate may cost up to approximately $80 million. We continue to evaluate the utility of the related inventory to other Bell programs, customers, or vendors. This review and the related discussions with vendors are ongoing. We estimate that our potential loss resulting from our LRIP-related vendor obligations will be between approximately $50 million and $80 million. At January 3, 2009, our reserves related to this program totaled $50 million. We intend to provide a termination proposal to the U.S. Government to request reimbursement of costs expended in support of the LRIP program.  

In 2007, we incurred net charges of $32 million related to this program. In the first quarter of 2007, we received correspondence from the U.S. Government that created uncertainty about whether it would proceed into the production phase of the ARH program. Accordingly, we provided for losses of $18 million in supplier obligations for long-lead component production incurred at our own risk to support anticipated ARH LRIP contract awards to maintain the program schedule. In the second quarter of 2007, the U.S. Army agreed to re-plan the ARH program, and we reached a non-binding memorandum of understanding related to aircraft specifications, pricing methodology and delivery schedules for initial LRIP aircraft. We also agreed to conduct additional SDD activities on a funded basis. Based on the plan at that time and our related estimates of aircraft production costs, including costs related to risks associated with achieving learning curve and schedule assumptions, we expected to lose approximately $73 million on the production of the proposed initial LRIP aircraft. Accordingly, an additional charge of $55 million was taken for estimated LRIP contract losses. In the third quarter of 2007, we reached an agreement with our customer under which we recovered $18 million of SDD launch-related costs previously written off, and, in December 2007, we agreed to expand the scope of the development contract efforts  

23   

on a funded basis. Based on the status of our negotiations with the U.S. Government and our contractual commitments with our vendors related to materials for the anticipated production units at that time, we revised our best estimate of the expected loss to $50 million, resulting in a $23 million reduction of previously established reserves.  

In 2006, we expensed $14 million in unreimbursed costs we incurred in the development phase of the program as costs exceeded the original contract amount for this program.  

H-1 Program  

Segment profit includes charges related to the H-1 program of $39 million in 2007 and $82 million in 2006. In 2006, this program was still in the development phase while we were concurrently working on the initial production aircraft under firm fixed-price LRIP contracts with the U.S. Government. In 2006, we recorded $82 million in charges based on our estimate that the costs to complete these LRIP contracts would exceed contractual reimbursement due to higher estimated incremental costs for resources added to meet the contractual schedule requirements, higher anticipated efforts in final assembly, delayed acceptance of the initial aircraft by the U.S. Government due to changes in the development and engineering requirements identified in the final stages of assembly and acceptance testing, rework of in-process units and resulting inefficiencies, and a reduction in previously anticipated learning curve improvements.  

During 2007, we completed delivery of all the Lot 1 aircraft as well as the first Lot 2 aircraft. Our manufacturing performance during the year was substantially consistent with our expectations; however, we anticipated a cost increase, primarily due to anticipated delays in receiving cabins from a supplier. Additionally, during the fourth quarter, we committed to higher pricing levels on an anticipated Lot 5 contract that we estimated would likely result in a loss once contract negotiations were finalized, primarily due to higher cabin supplier costs. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded a net charge of $30 million to reflect the higher cost estimates for existing contract completion resulting from supplier delays, as well as the estimated loss resulting from our price commitment on the Lot 5 contract.  

During 2008, our production efficiencies improved, resulting in $6 million of favorable cost performance. We delivered all remaining Lot 2 aircraft during the year and expect to deliver the final Lot 3 aircraft in February 2009. We also completed contract negotiations with the U.S. Government on Lot 5, consistent with our prior expectations.  

Textron Systems  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Textron Systems Revenues  

Revenues at Textron Systems increased $782 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the acquisition of AAI in 2007, which contributed $701 million to revenues in 2008, and higher volume of $101 million, partially offset by the nonrecurrence of the $28 million cost reimbursement in 2007 related to losses incurred during Hurricane Katrina. The volume increase is primarily due to $69 million in higher volume in our ASV aftermarket products, $48 million in higher volume for IBS products and $22 million in higher volume at Lycoming, partially offset by $32 million in lower Sensor Fused Weapons (SFW) volume.  

Revenues at Textron Systems increased $273 million in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to newly acquired businesses, which contributed $163 million, higher volume of $93 million and $21 million in higher reimbursement of costs related to Hurricane Katrina. The volume increase is primarily due to $78 million in higher ASV revenues due to a 21 % increase in deliveries to 576 units in 2007, $56 million in higher revenues for IBS and a $16 million increase from SFW deliveries. These increases were partially offset by lower Joint Direct Attack Munitions volume of $63 million.  

Textron Systems Segment Profit  

Segment profit at Textron Systems increased $88 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the acquisition of AAI, which contributed $62 million in 2008, and favorable cost performance of $23 million. The favorable cost performance includes $39 million related to the ASV program, partially offset by the 2007 reimbursement of $28 million for the impact of losses incurred during Hurricane Katrina. The ASV cost performance is primarily due to improved labor efficiencies and lower material costs.  

24   

Segment profit at Textron Systems increased $50 million in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to improved cost performance of $61 million and $22 million in profit contributions from acquisitions, partially offset by the net unfavorable impact from inflation and pricing of $23 million. The favorable cost performance includes $21 million of ASV improvements resulting from increased productivity and lower indirect costs and the favorable impact from a Hurricane Katrina cost reimbursement of $21 million.  

Industrial  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Industrial Revenues  

Revenues in the Industrial segment increased $93 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange impact of $95 million, higher pricing of $34 million and the favorable impact of an acquisition of $24 million, partially offset by lower volume of $62 million. Volume declined in the Kautex, Greenlee and Jacobsen businesses as demand softened, with the largest decline at Kautex as the slowing economy had a significant impact on automotive sales in the second half of 2008, resulting in numerous automotive OEM factory shutdowns around the world. At E-Z-GO, volume increased $41 million, largely due to increased fleet car sales related to the successful introduction of the RXV model. In response to significant decline in anticipated volume throughout all of Industrial, we have reduced production plans for 2009 and announced in the fourth quarter of 2008 planned headcount reductions of approximately 600 employees.  

Revenues in the Industrial segment increased $214 million in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the favorable foreign exchange impact of $115 million, higher volume of $112 million and higher pricing of $22 million, partially offset by the 2006 divestiture of non-core product lines of $37 million.  

Industrial Segment Profit  

Segment profit in the Industrial segment decreased $106 million in 2008, compared with 2007, mainly due to inflation in excess of pricing of $61 million, the impact of lower volume and mix of $54 million, partially offset by improved cost performance of $13 million.  

Industrial segment profit increased $24 million in 2007, compared with 2006, mainly due to improved cost performance of $48 million, higher pricing of $22 million, and the $17 million impact of higher volume and mix, partially offset by inflation of $66 million. Improved cost performance was primarily attributable to cost reduction efforts at Kautex, while inflation largely reflects increases in material costs.  

Finance  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

On December 22, 2008, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit all of the commercial finance business of the Finance segment, other than that portion of the business supporting customer purchases of Textron-manufactured products. We made the decision to exit this business due to continued weakness in the economy and to address our long-term liquidity position in light of continuing disruption and instability in the capital markets. In total, these actions will impact approximately $7.3 billion of the Finance segment’s $10.8 billion managed receivable portfolio. The exit plan will be effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales and is expected to be substantially complete over the next two to four years. The Finance group also announced a restructuring program in the fourth quarter of 2008 primarily related to headcount reductions and asset impairments resulting from the exit plan. See “Special Charges” section on page 19 regarding charges taken as a result of the exit plan, which are not reflected in segment profit.  

25   

Finance Revenues  

Revenues in the Finance segment decreased $152 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the following:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

These decreases were partially offset by the $24 million benefit from variable-rate receivable interest rate floors and a $21 million impact from higher average finance receivables of $258 million.  

Revenues in the Finance segment increased $77 million in 2007, compared with 2006. Our revenue growth was primarily attributed to the following factors:  

   •   Higher average finance receivables of $722 million, primarily due to growth in the aviation and resort finance businesses, which resulted in additional revenues of $66 million;  

   •   A$21 million gain on the sale of a leveraged lease investment; and  

   •   A$20 million increase in securitization income, primarily related to a $588 million increase in the level of receivables sold into the distribution finance revolving securitization.    

These increases were partially offset by a $17 million decrease in portfolio yields related to competitive pricing pressures, $13 million in lower leveraged lease earnings due to an unfavorable cumulative earnings adjustment attributable to the recognition of residual value impairments, and an $8 million reduction in leveraged lease earnings from the adoption of FSP No. 13-2, “Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction” in 2007.  

Finance Segment Profit  

Segment profit in the Finance segment decreased $272 million in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to a $201 million increase in the provision for loan losses, a $51 million impact of higher borrowing costs, relative to market rates, $20 million in lower securitization gains, net of impairments, a $16 million lower gain on the sale of a leveraged lease investment, partially offset by a $24 million benefit from variable-rate receivable interest rate floors.  

We increased the allowance for loan losses significantly during 2008 in response to weakening general market conditions, declining collateral values and the lack of liquidity available to our borrowers and their customers. We also increased our estimate of credit losses as a result of our decision to exit portions of the finance businesses in the fourth quarter, which we believe will negatively impact credit losses over the duration of our portfolio. The increases in provision for loan losses were primarily a result of an $81 million increase in defaults in the marine and recreational vehicles distribution finance portfolios, a $21 million increase for the resort finance portfolio, a $19 million reserve established for one account in the golf finance portfolio and a $16 million reserve for one account in the asset-based lending portfolio.  

Borrowing costs increased relative to the target Federal Funds rate as credit market volatility significantly impacted the historical relationships between market indices. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in the spread between the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and the target Federal Funds rate and from increased borrowing spreads on issuances of commercial paper in comparison with 2007. These increases were partially offset by increased receivable pricing as a result of variable-rate receivables with interest rate floors.  

Segment profit in the Finance segment increased $12 million in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to a $30 million increase in net interest margin, partially offset by an $11 million increase in selling and administrative expenses, largely attributable to finance receivable portfolio growth and a $7 million increase in provision for loan losses, reflecting an increase in nonperforming assets and net charge-offs in the distribution finance portfolio. Net interest margin increased due to a number of factors, including the following:  

   •   An increase of $56 million in securitization and other fee income as described above, and  

   •   An increase of $30 million related to growth in average finance receivables;  

   •   Partially offset by a $17 million decrease in portfolio yields related to competitive pricing pressures;  

   •   Lower leveraged lease earnings of $13 million due to an unfavorable cumulative earnings adjustment attributable to the recognition of residual value impairments;  

   •   Higher borrowing costs of $11 million relative to the Federal Funds rate;  

   •   A reduction in leveraged lease earnings of $8 million from the adoption of a new accounting standard; and  

   •   Lower leveraged lease earnings of $7 million due to a gain in 2006 on the sale of an option related to a leveraged lease asset.    

26   

Finance Portfolio Quality  

The following table presents information about the Finance segment’s credit performance related to finance receivables held for investment. Finance receivables held for sale are reflected at fair value in 2008, and are not included in the credit performance statistics below. In 2007 and 2006, all of our finance receivables were held for investment and are reflected in the performance statistics provided below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual finance receivables and repossessed assets that are not guaranteed by our Manufacturing group. Nonperforming assets by business, and as a percentage of the owned finance assets held for investment for each business, are as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We believe that nonperforming assets generally will continue to increase as we execute our liquidation plan under the current economic conditions. This plan is also likely to result in a slower rate of liquidation for nonperforming assets. The increase in nonperforming assets is primarily attributable to $110 million in the golf mortgage portfolio, with one golf mortgage account financing 14 golf courses representing 64% of this amount, and $74 million in the resort portfolio, largely due to one resort account financing eight resorts and the associated timeshare notes receivable, which represented 92% of the balance. In addition, nonperforming assets and net charge-offs increased substantially in the distribution finance portfolio reflecting continued weakening U.S. economic conditions.  

In 2007, the increases in nonperforming assets as a percentage of owned finance assets for asset-based lending and distribution finance, compared with 2006, relate to weakening U.S. economic conditions, which began to have a negative impact on borrowers in certain industries.  

27   

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Borrowing Group Presentation  

Our financings are conducted through two separate borrowing groups. The Manufacturing group consists of Textron Inc. consolidated with all of its majority-owned subsidiaries that operate in the Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial segments, except for Textron Financial Corporation. The Finance group consists of Textron Financial Corporation consolidated with its subsidiaries. We designed this framework to enhance our borrowing power by separating the Finance group. Our Manufacturing group operations include the development, production and delivery of tangible goods and services, while our Finance group provides financial services. Due to the fundamental differences between each borrowing group’s activities, investors, rating agencies and analysts use different measures to evaluate each group’s performance. To support those evaluations, we present balance sheet and cash flow information for each borrowing group within the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Recent Developments  

Historically, the principal source of liquidity for the Manufacturing group has been operating cash flows, and we have had additional short-term liquidity available to us through the commercial paper market, while for our long-term capital needs, we have been able to access the public capital markets. Our Finance group has historically funded its operations through commercial paper borrowings, issuances of medium-term notes and other term debt securities, and syndication and securitization of receivables.  

Due to unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption in the credit markets beginning in the second half of 2008, we experienced difficulty in accessing the commercial paper markets at favorable rates and terms. On several days in early 2009, we were unable to place sufficient amounts of commercial paper to meet our Finance group’s needs, resulting in our Finance group borrowing on its bank line of credit. The adverse impact that the credit market deterioration has had on us has been exacerbated by the recent downgrades of our credit ratings, which have adversely impacted our ability to access the term debt market.  

Given the current economic environment and the risks associated with the capital markets in general, including the current unavailability to us of public unsecured term debt and difficulty in accessing sufficient commercial paper on a daily basis, on February 3, 2009, we drew down on the balance of the $3.0 billion committed bank credit lines available to Textron and Textron Financial Corporation. After repayment of all commercial paper outstanding, this provides us with an aggregate amount of added cash liquidity of approximately $1.2 billion. Together with the proceeds of planned liquidations and cash flow from our Manufacturing group, we expect that this amount will be more than sufficient to repay the Finance group’s maturing term debt during 2009.  

Early in the fourth quarter of 2008, in order to reduce our reliance on short term funding, our Board of Directors approved the recommendation of management to downsize the Finance segment. The plan approved at that time entailed exiting the Finance group’s Asset-Based Lending and Structured Capital businesses, as well as several additional product lines, and limiting new originations in the Distribution Finance, Golf Finance and Resort Finance businesses. As conditions continued to worsen, on December 22, 2008, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit all of the commercial finance business of the Finance segment, other than that portion of the business supporting customer purchases of Textron-manufactured products. We made the decision to exit this business due to continued weakness in the economy and in order to address our long-term liquidity position in light of continuing disruption and instability in the capital markets.  

In total, the exit plan will impact approximately $7.3 billion of the Finance segment’s $10.8 billion managed receivable portfolio as of the end of 2008. The exit plan will be effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales and is expected to be substantially complete over the next two to four years. Under this exit plan, we expect to liquidate at least $2.6 billion of managed finance receivables, net of originations, in 2009, of which approximately $2.0 billion will be used to pay down off-balance sheet securitized debt. The remainder of the planned liquidations will be utilized to repay a portion of the term debt issued by the Finance group that is maturing in 2009.  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we approved a restructuring plan to reduce costs and improve productivity across the company. The restructuring program, along with other volume-related reductions in workforce during the fourth quarter of 2008 and in January 2009, eliminates approximately 6,300 positions worldwide, representing approximately 15% of our global workforce.  

28   

We expect the economic uncertainty and capital market turbulence to continue into 2009. In order to ensure that we have sufficient liquidity to repay our maturing debt obligations during the first quarter of 2010 and beyond, our focus will be the maximization of cash flow through the following initiatives:  

 •   Liquidation of finance receivables, including selected sales of finance receivables held for sale by our Finance group;  

 •   Realignment of production in our commercial manufacturing businesses to match lower expected demand;  

 •   Cost reduction activities, including reducing our workforce, freezing salaries, curtailing most discretionary spending, including some reductions in product development, and reducing most areas of discretionary capital spending; and  

 •   Reduction of working capital with a focus on inventory management.    

In 2008, our Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends of $0.23 per common share. On February 25, 2009, we announced that our Board of Directors has voted to reduce our quarterly dividend to $0.02 per share for the first quarter of 2009. This decision is intended to increase our liquidity in the long-term interest of our shareholders. The decision to pay a dividend is reviewed quarterly and requires declaration by our Board of Directors.  

In addition, we are continuing to explore other potential avenues of liquidity, including funding sources in the capital markets and are actively pursuing new financing structures for the Finance group, which would be secured directly by its finance receivable portfolio, as well as extensions of existing securitization vehicles. In December 2008, the Finance group extended the revolving term of its Aviation Finance securitization by one year, which is estimated to provide additional liquidity of approximately $100 million during 2009 as the current portfolio securing this funding source matures and is replaced with additional finance receivables.  

Depending on the success of the above cash flow initiatives and changes in external factors affecting the marketability and value of our assets, we may consider the sale of additional assets in the finance business or the sale of certain manufacturing businesses. We believe that with the successful execution of the Finance group’s exit plan, combined with other liquidity actions discussed above and the cash we expect to generate from our manufacturing operations, we will be able to raise cash sufficient to meet our future liquidity needs.  

Bank Facilities and Other Sources of Capital  

Our aggregate $3.0 billion in committed bank lines of credit have historically been in support of commercial paper and letters of credit issuances only. There were no borrowings outstanding related to the Manufacturing group’s $1.25 billion facility or the Finance group’s $1.75 billion facility at the end of 2008 or 2007. In February 2009, due to the unavailability of term debt and difficulty in accessing sufficient commercial paper on a daily basis, we drew the available balance from these credit facilities. Amounts borrowed under the credit facilities will not be due until April 2012. A portion of the proceeds will be used to repay all of our outstanding commercial paper as it comes due.  

The debt (net of cash)-to-capital ratio for our Manufacturing group was 46% at January 3, 2009, compared with 32% at December 29, 2007, and the gross debt-to-capital ratio at January 3, 2009 was 52%, compared with 38% at December 29, 2007.  

The Manufacturing group maintains an effective shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows it to issue an unlimited amount of public debt and other securities, and the Finance group maintains an effective shelf registration statement that allows it to issue an unlimited amount of public debt securities. In the first half of 2008, the Finance group issued $675 million of term debt under its registration statement.  

Contractual Obligations  

Finance Group  

Due to the nature of finance companies, we believe that it is meaningful to include contractual cash receipts that we expect to receive in the future. The Finance group generally borrows funds at various contractual maturities to match the maturities of its finance receivables. The following table summarizes the Finance group’s liquidity position, including all managed finance receivables and both on- and off-balance sheet funding sources as of January 3, 2009, for the specified periods:  

29   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1)   Contractual receipts and payments exclude finance charges from receivables, debt interest payments and other items.  

 (2)   Commercial paper outstanding and the Textron intercompany loan are reflected as being repaid in connection with the maturity of the Finance group’s $1.75 billion committed multi-year credit facility in 2012. Actual commercial paper issuances generally are outstanding for less than 90 days; however, these issuances were replaced by a full drawdown on the multi-year credit facility in February 2009.  

 (3)   Securitized on-balance sheet and securitized off-balance sheet debt payments are based on the contractual receipts of the underlying receivables, which are remitted into the securitization structure when and as they are received. These payments do not represent contractual obligations of the Finance group, and we do not provide legal recourse to investors that purchase interests in the securitizations beyond the credit enhancement inherent in the retained subordinate interests.  

 (4)   Finance receivable receipts are based on contractual cash flows only and do not reflect any reserves for uncollectible amounts. These receipts could differ due to prepayments, charge-offs and other factors, including the inability of borrowers to repay the balance of the loan at the contractual maturity date. Finance receivable receipts on the held for sale portfolio exclude the potential negative impact from selling the portfolio at the estimated fair value, which reflects a $293 million mark-to-market adjustment, net of the existing allowance for loan losses of $44 million, as discussed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

This liquidity profile, combined with the excess cash generated by the drawdown of our credit facilities, is an indicator of the Finance group’s ability to repay outstanding funding obligations, assuming contractual collection of all finance receivables, absent access to new sources of liquidity or origination of additional finance receivables. In addition, at January 3, 2009, our Finance group had $338 million in other liabilities, primarily including accounts payable and accrued expenses, that are payable within the next 12 months.  

30   

At January 3, 2009, the Finance group had $1.2 billion of unused commitments to fund new and existing customers under revolving lines of credit, compared to $1.6 billion at December 29, 2007. These loan commitments generally have an original duration of less than three years, and funding under these facilities is dependent on the availability of eligible collateral and compliance with customary financial covenants. Since many of the agreements will not be used to the extent committed or will expire unused, the total commitment amount does not necessarily represent future cash requirements. We also have ongoing customer relationships, including manufacturers and dealers in the Distribution Finance division, which do not contractually obligate us to provide funding, however, we may choose to fund certain of these relationships to facilitate an orderly liquidation and mitigate credit losses. Neither of these potential fundings is included as contractual obligations in the table above.  

Manufacturing Group  

The following table summarizes the known contractual obligations, as defined by reporting regulations, of our Manufacturing group as of January 3, 2009, as well as an estimate of the timing in which these obligations are expected to be satisfied:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1)   Commercial paper outstanding at January 3, 2009 is reflected as being repaid in connection with the maturity of our $1.75 billion committed multi-year credit facility in 2012. Actual commercial paper issuances generally are outstanding for less than 90 days; however, these issuances were replaced by a full draw-down on the multi-year credit facility in February 2009.  

 (2)   Amounts exclude interest payments.   

We maintain defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans other than pensions as discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Included in the above table are discounted estimated benefit payments we expect to make related to unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Actual benefit payments are dependent on a number of factors, including mortality assumptions, expected retirement age, rate of compensation increases and medical trend rates, which are subject to change in future years. Our policy for funding pension plans is to make contributions annually, consistent with applicable laws and regulations; however, future contributions to our pension plans are not included in the above table. We expect to make contributions to our funded pension plans in the range of approximately $50 million to $55 million in 2009. Based on our current assumptions, which may change with changes in market conditions, our current annual contribution for each of the years from 2010 through 2013 is estimated to be approximately $375 million under the plan provisions in place at this time.  

Other long-term liabilities included in the table consist primarily of undiscounted amounts on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 3, 2009, representing obligations under deferred compensation arrangements and estimated environmental remediation costs. Payments under deferred compensation arrangements have been estimated based on management’s assumptions of expected retirement age, mortality, stock price and rates of return on participant deferrals. The timing of cash flows associated with environmental remediation costs is largely based on historical experience. Other long-term liabilities, such as deferred taxes and unrecognized tax benefits, have been excluded from the table due to the uncertainty of the timing of payments combined with the absence of historical trends to be used as a predictor for such payments.  

Operating leases represent undiscounted obligations under noncancelable leases. Purchase obligations represent undiscounted obligations for which we are committed to purchase goods and services as of January 3, 2009. The ultimate liability for these obligations may be reduced based upon termination provisions included in certain purchase contracts, the costs incurred to date by vendors under these contracts or by recourse under firm contracts with the U.S. Government under normal termination clauses.  

31   

Credit Ratings  

Credit ratings are a critical component of our ability to access the public term debt and commercial paper markets and also impact the cost of those borrowings. Factors that can affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the industries in which we operate, our financial position and changes in our business strategy. Since high-quality credit ratings provide us with access to a broad base of global investors at an attractive cost, we target a long-term A rating from the independent debt-rating agencies. While historically we have been able to achieve this target rating, in recent months, the long-term ratings for both borrowing groups were downgraded several times by all of the debt-rating agencies.  

The credit ratings and outlooks of the debt-rating agencies at February 25, 2009 are as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The major rating agencies regularly evaluate both borrowing groups, and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, and factors outside our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Our long-term credit ratings have been downgraded several times in recent months, and Fitch Ratings downgraded our short-term credit rating on February 9, 2009. In connection with these rating actions, the rating agencies have cited concerns about the Finance group, including execution risks associated with our current plan to exit the non-captive finance businesses and the need for Textron Inc. to make capital contributions to Textron Financial Corporation, as well as lower-than-expected business and financial outlook for 2009, the increase in outstanding debt resulting from the drawdown on our credit facilities, weak economic conditions and continued liquidity and funding constraints. Failure to maintain investment grade credit ratings that are acceptable to investors would prevent us from accessing the commercial paper markets, and may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain other financing, as well as our access to the capital markets.  

Manufacturing Group Cash Flows  

The cash flows from continuing operations for the Manufacturing group are summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Under a support agreement between Textron Financial Corporation and Textron Inc., Textron Inc. is required to maintain a controlling interest in Textron Financial Corporation. The agreement also requires Textron Inc. to ensure that Textron Financial Corporation maintains fixed charge coverage of no less than 125% and consolidated shareholder’s equity of no less than $200 million. Due to a goodwill impairment charge of $169 million at Textron Financial Corporation, along with other charges resulting from the exit plan discussed above, on December 29, 2008, Textron Inc. made a cash payment of $625 million to Textron Financial Corporation, which was reflected as a capital contribution, to maintain compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio required by the support agreement and to maintain the leverage ratio required by its credit facility. Due to the nature of this contribution, we classified this contribution within cash flows used by operating activities for the Manufacturing group resulting in the significant decline in cash provided by operating activities. Capital contributions to support Finance group growth are classified as cash flows from financing activities. The Finance group’s net income (loss) is excluded from the Manufacturing group’s cash flows, while dividends from the Finance group are included within cash flows from operating activities for the Manufacturing group as they represent a return on investment.  

Excluding the capital contribution to the Finance group, cash provided by operating activities totaled $1 billion, reflecting consistent cash flow from the Manufacturing group, even with continued investment in our working capital. Changes in our working capital components resulted in a $476 million and $101 million use of cash in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and a $123 million source of cash in 2006. A significant use of operating cash is related to increased production levels during the year and inventory build-up at Bell and Cessna. Cash used for inventories totaled $657 million, $446 million and $364 million 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Partially offsetting the use of cash for inventories were  

32   

customer deposits within accrued liabilities, which provided a significant source of operating cash. Customer deposits increased $88 million, $290 million and $128 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Investing cash flows in 2008 were largely driven by capital expenditures of $542 million in 2008, $375 million in 2007 and $407 million in 2006. For 2009, we plan to reduce our capital spending to about $315 million, consistent with our reduced capacity requirements. In 2008 and 2007, we paid $109 million and $1.1 billion, largely related to the AAI acquisition; in 2006, we paid $338 million, primarily related to the acquisition of Overwatch Systems.  

In 2008, financing activities include $867 million in commercial paper borrowings of which a portion was used to make a cash payment for a capital contribution and for a loan to the Finance group. As we experienced limited ability to obtain financing at favorable rates in the second half of 2008, we borrowed $222 million against the cash surrender value of our corporate-owned officers’ life insurance policies in 2008. These cash inflows from financing activities were offset by share repurchases of $533 million, the maturity of two bonds requiring payments of $348 million, dividends paid to shareholders of $284 million and net lending to the Finance group of $133 million.  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Manufacturing group utilized its commercial paper borrowings to lend cash to the Finance group. A portion of these inter-group borrowings were repaid in the fourth quarter, primarily with funds from the $625 million capital contribution discussed above. At January 3, 2009, the Finance group owed the Manufacturing group $133 million related to these borrowings.  

In 2008, 2007 and 2006, we repurchased approximately 12 million, 6 million and 17 million shares of common stock, respectively, under Board-authorized share repurchase programs. In September 2008, we suspended all share repurchase activity.  

We used $996 million less cash for financing activities in 2007, compared with 2006. The decrease is due principally to the issuance of $350 million in 10-year notes in 2007, the paydown of $241 million of short-term debt in 2006 and a $457 million decrease in 2007 in purchases of our common stock from 2006.  

Our annual dividend increased to $0.92 in 2008 from $0.85 in 2007. Dividend payments to shareholders totaled $284 million, $154 million and $244 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The timing of our quarterly dividend payments resulted in four payments in 2008, three payments in 2007 and five payments in 2006.  

Finance Group Cash Flows  

The cash flows from continuing operations for the Finance group are summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The decrease in cash provided by operating activities for both 2008 and 2007 was primarily due to the timing of payments of income taxes and accrued interest and other liabilities.  

Cash flows used in investing activities decreased during 2008, primarily due to a $627 million decrease in finance receivable originations, net of collections, mostly the result of the decision to exit portions of the finance business resulting in lower originations, partially offset by lower proceeds from receivable sales, including securitizations of $363 million and the purchase of notes receivable issued by securitization trusts of $100 million. Cash used for investing activities decreased in 2007, compared with 2006, largely due to a $774 million decrease in finance receivable originations, net of collections, a $481 million increase in proceeds from receivable sales, including securitizations, and the $164 million impact in 2006 of cash used for an acquisition. Proceeds from receivable sales increased primarily due to the sale of $588 million of receivables into the distribution finance revolving securitization in 2007.  

Less cash was provided by financing activities in 2008, primarily due to lower proceeds from borrowings related to the reduction in managed receivable growth and higher principal payments, largely offset by the $625 million capital contribution received from the Manufacturing group in 2008 under its support agreement The decrease in financing cash inflows in 2007 primarily reflects a reduction in borrowings due to lower managed receivable growth in comparison with 2006. In addition, during 2007, we used the proceeds from receivable sales, including securitizations to fund asset growth, instead of additional borrowings.  

33   

Consolidated Cash Flows  

The consolidated cash flows from continuing operations, after elimination of activity between the borrowing groups, are summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Consolidated cash provided by operating activities decreased, primarily due to investment in working capital as discussed in more detail within the “Manufacturing Group Cash Flows” section herein.  

Cash used for investing activities decreased due to the $1.1 billion in cash used for acquisitions in 2007, primarily related to AAI. Cash used for investing activities decreased in 2007, compared with 2006, largely due to a $786 million decrease in finance receivable originations, net of collections (excluding $12 million from captive financing activities) and a $424 million increase in proceeds from receivable sales and securitizations collections (excluding $57 million from captive financing activities). These decreases were partially offset by $590 million in higher cash outflows for acquisitions. In 2007, we acquired four businesses, including AAI, for a total outflow of $1.1 billion, while in 2006, we acquired three businesses for $502 million, including Overwatch Systems and Electrolux Financial Corporation.  

We received less cash from financing activities in 2008, primarily due to $663 million in lower proceeds from borrowings, net of principal payments. We also used $229 million more for share repurchases and $130 million more for dividend payments to shareholders, which were partially offset by $222 million in proceeds we received from borrowings against the cash surrender value of corporate-owned officers’ life insurance policies in 2008.  

We received less cash from financing activities in 2007, primarily due to a reduction in borrowings, largely a result of lower managed receivable growth in comparison with 2006. In addition, during 2007, we used the proceeds from the sale of receivables, including securitizations to fund asset growth, instead of additional borrowings. The decrease in cash borrowed by the Finance group in 2007 from 2006 was partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of $350 million in 10-year notes by the Manufacturing group in 2007, a $457 million decrease in the purchases of our common stock and $90 million in lower dividend payments due to timing.  

Captive Financing and Other Intercompany Transactions  

The Finance group finances retail purchases and leases for new and used aircraft and equipment manufactured by our Manufacturing group, otherwise known as captive financing. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, cash received from customers or from securitizations is reflected as operating activities when received from third parties. However, in the cash flow information provided for the separate borrowing groups, cash flows related to captive financing activities are reflected based on the operations of each group. For example, when product is sold by our Manufacturing group to a customer and is financed by the Finance group, the origination of the finance receivable is recorded within investing activities as a cash outflow in the Finance group’s statement of cash flows. Meanwhile, in the Manufacturing group’s statement of cash flows, the cash received from the Finance group on the customer’s behalf is recorded within operating cash flows as a cash inflow. Although cash is transferred between the two borrowing groups, there is no cash transaction reported in the consolidated cash flows at the time of the original financing. These captive financing activities, along with all significant intercompany transactions, are reclassified or eliminated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  

Reclassification and elimination adjustments included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

34   

Consolidated Discontinued Operations Cash Flows  

The cash flows from discontinued operations are summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we received net cash proceeds from the sale of the Fluid & Power business of approximately $479 million, which is recorded in investing activities. After taxes and other deal-related expenses are paid, we expect total net after-tax proceeds for the sale to be approximately $380 million. This excludes any cash proceeds related to the final payment to be determined based on the Fluid & Power 2008 operating results. In 2007, cash flows from investing activities are primarily related to the realization of cash tax benefits from the Fastening Systems business. In 2006, cash inflows from investing activities include net cash proceeds of $636 million for the sale of the Fastening Systems business. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details concerning these dispositions.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Performance Guarantee  

In 2004, through our Bell Helicopter business, we formed AgustaWestlandBell LLC (AWB LLC) with AgustaWestland North America Inc. (AWNA). This venture was created for the joint design, development, manufacture, sale, customer training and product support of the VH-71 helicopter, and certain variations and derivatives thereof, to be offered and sold to departments or agencies of the U.S. Government. In March 2005, AWB LLC received a $1.2 billion cost reimbursement-type subcontract from Lockheed Martin for the System Development and Demonstration phase of the U.S. Marine Corps Helicopter Squadron Program, which was increased to $1.4 billion in December 2008. We guaranteed to Lockheed Martin the due and prompt performance by AWB LLC of all its obligations under this subcontract, provided that our liability under the guaranty shall not exceed 49% of AWB LLC’s aggregate liability to Lockheed Martin under the subcontract. AgustaWestland N.V., AWNA’s parent company, has guaranteed the remaining 51% to Lockheed Martin. We have entered into cross-indemnification agreements with AgustaWestland N.V. in which each party indemnifies the other related to any payments required under these agreements that result from the indemnifying party’s workshare under any subcontracts received. AWB LLC’s maximum obligation is 50% of the total contract value, of $676 million, for a maximum amount of our liability under the guarantee of $331 million at January 3, 2009 through completion. Under the current phase of the contract, we do not believe that there is any performance risk with respect to the guarantee. In late January 2009, the Pentagon declared a Nunn-McCurdy Act breach for this program due to cost overruns, requiring recertification of the program. We do not have enough information at this time to make a determination of whether the program will be recertified; however, if the program were to be terminated, we do not believe that the guarantee will be triggered as it relates solely to performance under the subcontract.  

Finance Receivable Sales and Securitizations  

The Finance group primarily sells finance receivables utilizing asset-backed securitization structures. As a result of these transactions, finance receivables are removed from the balance sheet, and the proceeds received are used to reduce recorded debt levels. Despite the reduction in the recorded balance sheet position, we generally retain a subordinated interest in the finance receivables sold through securitizations, which may affect operating results through periodic fair value adjustments.  

We utilize off-balance sheet financing arrangements to further diversify funding alternatives, and termination of these arrangements would reduce our short-term funding alternatives, which could result in increased funding costs for our managed finance receivable portfolio. While these arrangements do not contain provisions that require us to repurchase significant amounts of receivables previously sold, there are risks that could reduce the availability of these funding alternatives in the future. Potential barriers to the continued use of these off-balance sheet arrangements include deterioration in finance receivable portfolio quality, downgrades in our debt credit ratings, and a reduction of new finance receivable originations in the businesses that utilize these funding arrangements. We do not expect any of these factors to have a material impact on our liquidity or income from operations, and if we were required to consolidate these arrangements, it would have no impact on our existing debt covenants.  

35   

As of January 3, 2009, we have one significant off-balance sheet financing arrangement. The Distribution Finance revolving securitization trust is a master trust that purchases inventory finance receivables from our Finance group and issues asset-backed notes to investors. These receivables typically have short durations, which results in significant collections of previously purchased receivables and significant additional purchases of replacement receivables from us on a monthly basis. This arrangement has provided net proceeds of $125 million in 2008, $549 million in 2007 and $50 million 2006, and net pre-tax gains of $36 million, $58 million and $42 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Proceeds from securitizations include amounts received related to the issuance of additional asset-backed notes to investors and exclude amounts received related to the ongoing replenishment of the outstanding sold balance of these short-duration receivables.  

During 2008, $802 million of the outstanding notes issued by the Distribution Finance revolving securitization trust matured, and the trust issued variable funding notes in the amount of $559 million (maturing in September 2009) and $419 million (maturing in May 2009). We retained $103 million of these notes. Both notes have an interest rate equal to the commercial paper costs of the conduit purchasers. In addition, the trust holds $1.2 billion of one-month LIBOR-based variable-rate notes with three-year terms. Approximately $642 million of these notes mature in April 2009 and $588 million mature in March 2010. We retained $80 million of these notes. The amount of pre-tax gains recorded upon the ongoing sale of receivables in this arrangement and the value of our subordinated interest are impacted by the pricing of the investor notes issued by the trust. Therefore, an increase in the pricing of investor notes issued upon the maturity of the existing notes could have a negative impact on the gains recognized by the Finance group related to future sales of receivables.  

Critical Accounting Estimates  

To prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements to be in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, we must make complex and subjective judgments in the selection and application of accounting policies. The accounting policies that we believe are most critical to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations are listed below. We believe these policies require our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments in estimating the effect of inherent uncertainties. This section should be read in conjunction with Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which includes other significant accounting policies.  

Allowance for Losses on Finance Receivables Held for Investment  

We evaluate our allowance for losses on finance receivables held for investment based on a combination of factors. For homogeneous loan pools, we examine current delinquencies, the characteristics of the existing accounts, historical loss experience, the value of the underlying collateral, general economic conditions and trends, and the potential impact of the lack of liquidity available to our borrowers and their customers as a result of our current decision to exit our non-captive finance businesses. We estimate losses will range from 0.75% to 10.0% of finance receivables held for investment depending on the specific homogeneous loan pool. For larger balance commercial loans, we also consider borrower specific information, industry trends and estimated discounted cash flows.  

Provision for losses on finance receivables held for investment are charged to income, in amounts sufficient to maintain the allowance for losses on finance receivables held for investment at a level considered adequate to cover losses inherent in the owned finance receivable held for investment portfolio, based on management’s evaluation and analysis of this portfolio. While management believes that its consideration of the factors and assumptions referred to above results in an accurate evaluation of existing losses in the portfolio based on prior trends and experience, changes in the assumptions or trends within reasonable historical volatility may have a material impact on our allowance for losses on finance receivables held for investment. The allowance for losses on finance receivables held for investment currently represents 2.76% of total finance receivables held for investment. During the last five years, net charge-offs as a percentage of finance receivables held for investment have ranged from 0.38% to 1.48%.  

Finance Receivables Held for Sale  

As a result of our exit plan, $1.7 billion of our finance receivable portfolio is classified as held for sale and is recorded at the lower of cost or fair value, and the remaining $6.9 billion of receivables in our finance receivable portfolio is classified as held for investment. Upon the initial reclassification of these receivables to held for sale, we estimated the fair value to be $293 million less than the carrying value, net of the $44 million allowance for loan losses attributable to these portfolios. This net adjustment was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008.  

36   

Finance receivables are classified as held for sale based on the determination that we no longer intend to hold the receivables for the foreseeable future or until maturity or there is no longer the ability to hold to maturity. Our decision to classify certain finance receivables as held for sale is based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, contractual duration, type of collateral, credit strength of the borrowers, the existence of continued contractual commitments, the perceived marketability of the receivables and our ability to hold the receivables to maturity. On an ongoing basis, these factors, combined with our overall liquidation strategy, determine which finance receivables we have the positive intent to hold for the foreseeable future and which receivables we will hold for sale.  

Our current strategy is based on an evaluation of both our performance and liquidity position and changes in external factors affecting the value and/or the marketability of our finance receivables. A change in this strategy could result in a change in the classification of our finance receivables. If we subsequently determine that finance receivables classified as held for sale will not be sold, the finance receivables will be reclassified to held for investment at the lower of cost or fair value at that time. Conversely, if we determine that there are other finance receivables that we subsequently determine we no longer intend or have the ability to hold to maturity, these receivables would be designated as held for sale and a valuation allowance would be established at that time, if necessary. At January 3, 2009, if we had classified additional finance receivables as held for sale, a valuation allowance would likely have been required at that time based on the fair value estimates we completed for our footnote disclosure requirements. See page 71 in Note 10, Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table where we have included the carrying value and fair value for the assets and liabilities that are currently not recorded at fair value on our balance sheet.  

Finance receivables held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. At the time of transfer to the held for sale classification, we establish a valuation allowance for any shortfall between the carrying value, net of all deferred fees and costs, and fair value. Upon the initial classification to held for sale, any shortfall is recorded as a charge within special charges. In addition, any allowance for loan losses previously allocated to these receivables is reclassified to the valuation allowance account which is netted with finance receivables held for sale on the balance sheet. After the valuation allowance is initially established, it is adjusted quarterly for any changes in the fair value of the receivables below the original carrying value, with subsequent adjustments included in earnings within segment profit. Fair value changes can occur based on market interest rates, market liquidity and changes in the credit quality of the borrower and value of underlying loan collateral.  

There are no active, quoted market prices for our finance receivables. The estimate of fair value was determined based on the use of discounted cash flow models to estimate the exit price we expect to receive in the principal market for each type of loan in an orderly transaction, which includes the sale of both pools of similar assets, and the sale of individual loans. The models we used incorporate estimates of the rate of return, financing cost, capital structure and/or discount rate expectations of prospective purchasers combined with estimated loan cash flows based on credit losses, payment rates and credit line utilization rates. Where available, the assumptions related to the expectations of prospective purchasers were compared to observable market inputs, including bids from prospective purchasers, and certain bond market indices for loans of similar perceived credit quality. Although we utilize and prioritize these market observable inputs in our discounted cash flow models, these inputs are rarely derived from markets with directly comparable loan structures, industries and collateral types. Therefore, all valuations of finance receivables held for sale involve significant management judgment, which can result in differences between our fair value estimates and those of other market participants.  

Long-Term Contracts  

We make a substantial portion of our sales to government customers pursuant to long-term contracts. These contracts require development and delivery of products over multiple years and may contain fixed-price purchase options for additional products. We account for these long-term contracts under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting.  

Under the percentage-of-completion method, we estimate profit as the difference between total estimated revenue and cost of a contract. We then recognize that estimated profit over the contract term based on either the costs incurred (under the cost-to-cost method, which typically is used for development effort) or the units delivered (under the units-of-delivery method, which is used for production effort), as appropriate under the circumstances. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves the use of various estimating techniques to project costs at completion and, in some cases, includes estimates of recoveries asserted against the customer for changes in specifications. Due to the size, length of time and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total contract costs and revenue through completion is complicated and subject to many variables relative to the outcome of future events over a period of several years. We are required to make numerous assumptions  

37   

and estimates relating to items such as expected engineering requirements, complexity of design and related development costs, performance of subcontractors, availability and cost of materials, labor productivity and cost, overhead and capital costs, manufacturing efficiencies and the achievement of contract milestones, including product deliveries.  

Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals. We update our projections of costs at least semiannually or when circumstances significantly change. Adjustments to projected costs are recognized in earnings when determinable. Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable. Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different revenues and/or cost of sales amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Our earnings could be reduced by a material amount resulting in a charge to earnings if (a) total estimated contract costs are significantly higher than expected due to changes in customer specifications prior to contract amendment, (b) total estimated contract costs are significantly higher than previously estimated due to cost overruns or inflation, (c) there is a change in engineering efforts required during the development stage of the contract or (d) we are unable to meet contract milestones.  

Goodwill  

We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances, such as declines in sales, earnings or cash flows, or material adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the carrying value of an asset might be impaired. See the “Special Charges” section on page 19 for a discussion of the impairment of goodwill at the Finance segment. Subsequent to this impairment, we completed our annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2008 using the estimates from our long-term strategic plans. No adjustment was required to the carrying value of our goodwill based on the analysis performed.  

Our market capitalization at January 3, 2009 was approximately $3.7 billion, compared with approximately $17.9 billion at December 29, 2007. This market capitalization is less than the sum of the fair values of our manufacturing reporting units calculated in connection with our annual impairment test. We believe that the differences between the fair value estimates of our manufacturing reporting units and our market capitalization are primarily due to the market’s view of risk in the Finance segment. As noted above, we have fully impaired goodwill at the Finance segment and concerns over our liquidity. We believe that our fair value estimates for our manufacturing reporting units are consistent with market participant assumptions.  

Goodwill is considered to be impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Fair values are primarily established using a discounted cash flow methodology using assumptions consistent with market participants. The determination of discounted cash flows is based on the businesses’ strategic plans and long-range planning forecasts. The revenue growth rates included in the forecasts represent our best estimates based on current and forecasted market conditions, and the profit margin assumptions are projected by each reporting unit based on the current cost structure and anticipated net cost reductions. If different assumptions were used in these forecasts, the related undiscounted cash flows used in measuring impairment could be different, potentially resulting in an impairment charge.  

During the second half of 2008, Kautex was negatively impacted by the significant downturn in the automotive industry, which caused deterioration in its revenues and segment profit. Our annual evaluation of goodwill recoverability for Kautex was extended to include our projections and outlook for the automotive industry as of the end of the fourth quarter, and we believe the carrying value of the reporting unit is recoverable at January 3, 2009. We anticipate volumes to continue to be lower through 2010. From 2009 through 2013, for purposes of our goodwill analysis, we have assumed an average annual sales growth rate of 6% with operating profit margins returning to recent historical levels by 2013. Operating profit margin improvements are expected to result from significant restructuring activities, including realignment of excess capacity through personnel reductions, as well as from higher volumes. A 50-basis-point reduction in the estimated operating profit margins during the 2009 to 2013 period, used in our discounted cash flow model, would reduce the estimated fair value of Kautex by up to $60 million and may result in the carrying value of the business exceeding its estimated fair value, potentially resulting an impairment charge. At January 3, 2009, the goodwill allocated to Kautex totaled $130 million.  

Our operating plans and projections for our Golf & Turfcare component anticipate operating margin improvements over the five-year planning period resulting in high single-digit margins and assume annual revenue growth of approximately 4%. A 100-basis-point decline in our operating margin assumptions would reduce the estimated fair value by up to approximately $50 million and may result in the carrying value of the component exceeding its estimated fair value, potentially resulting in an impairment charge. At January 3, 2009, the goodwill allocated to this component totaled approximately $141 million.  

38   

Retirement Benefits  

We maintain various pension and postretirement plans for our employees globally. These plans include significant pension and postretirement benefit obligations, which are calculated based on actuarial valuations. Key assumptions used in determining these obligations and related expenses include expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates and healthcare cost projections. We also make assumptions regarding employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and the rate of compensation increases. We evaluate and update these assumptions annually.  

To determine the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocation, as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class. A lower expected rate of return on plan assets will increase pension expense. For 2008, the assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in calculating pension expense was 8.66%, compared with 8.63% in 2007. In 2008 and 2007, the assumed rate of return for our qualified domestic plans, which represent approximately 95% of our total pension assets, was 8.75% and 8.74%, respectively. A 50-basis-point decrease in this long-term rate of return would result in a $22 million annual increase in pension expense for our qualified domestic plans.  

The discount rate enables us to state expected future benefit payments as a present value on the measurement date, reflecting the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled. This rate should be in line with rates for high-quality fixed income investments available for the period to maturity of the pension benefits, which fluctuate as long-term interest rates change. A lower discount rate increases the present value of the benefit obligations and increases pension expense. In 2008, the weighted-average discount rate used in calculating pension expense was 5.99%, compared with 5.63% in 2007. For our qualified domestic plans, the assumed discount rate was 6.0% in 2008, compared with 5.66% for 2007. A 50-basis-point decrease in this discount rate would result in a $28 million annual increase in pension expense for our qualified domestic plans.  

The trend in healthcare costs is difficult to estimate, and it has an important effect on postretirement liabilities. The 2008 medical and prescription drug healthcare cost trend rates represent the weighted-average annual projected rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered benefits. The 2008 medical rate of 7% is assumed to decrease to 5% by 2019 and then remain at that level. The 2008 prescription drug rate of 10% is assumed to decrease to 5% by 2019 and then remain at that level. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of a one-percentage-point change in the cost trend rate.  

Warranty Liabilities  

We provide limited warranty and product maintenance programs, including parts and labor, for certain products for periods ranging from one to five years. A significant portion of these liabilities arises from our commercial aircraft businesses. We also may incur costs related to product recalls.  

We estimate the costs that may be incurred under warranty programs and record a liability in the amount of such costs at the time product revenue is recognized. Factors that affect this liability include the number of products sold, historical costs per claim, contractual recoveries from vendors, and historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims, including production and warranty patterns for new models. During our initial aircraft model launches, we typically incur higher warranty-related costs until the production process matures, at which point warranty costs moderate.  

We assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty and product maintenance liabilities periodically and adjust the amounts as necessary. Adjustments are made to accruals as claim data and actual experience warrant. Should future warranty experience differ materially from our historical experience, we may be required to record additional warranty liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which these additional liabilities are required.  

Securitized Transactions  

Securitized transactions involve the sale of finance receivables to qualified special purpose trusts. We may retain an interest in the assets sold in the form of interest-only securities, seller certificates, cash reserve accounts, and servicing rights and obligations. At the time of sale, a gain or loss is recorded based on the difference between the proceeds received and the allocated carrying value of the finance receivables sold. The allocated carrying value is determined based on the relative fair values of the finance receivables sold and the interests retained. As such, the fair value estimate of the retained interests has a direct impact on the gain or loss recorded. We estimate fair value based on the present value of future cash flows using management’s best estimates of key assumptions – credit losses, prepayment speeds, discount rates and forward interest rate yield curves commensurate with the risks involved.  

39   

We review the fair values of the retained interests quarterly using updated assumptions and compare such amounts with the carrying value. When the carrying value exceeds the fair value, we determine whether the decline in fair value is other than temporary. When we determine the value of the decline is other than temporary, we write down the securities to fair value with a corresponding charge to income. When a change in fair value of the interest-only securities is deemed temporary, we record a corresponding credit or charge to other comprehensive income for any unrealized gains or losses. Refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of key assumptions used to record initial gains related to the sale of finance receivables through securitizations and to measure the current fair value of the interest-only securities.  

Income Taxes  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which we expect the differences will reverse or settle. Based on the evaluation of available evidence, we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that we believe it is more likely than not that we will realize these benefits. We periodically assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets and reflect any changes in our estimates in the valuation allowance, with a corresponding adjustment to earnings or other comprehensive income (loss), as appropriate. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we look to the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, taxable income in carryback years, the feasibility of tax planning strategies and estimated future taxable income.  

The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which may result in proposed assessments. Our estimate for the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon our evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions for which it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we record the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Interest and penalties are accrued, where applicable. We recognize net tax-related interest and penalties in income tax expense. If we do not believe that it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit is recognized. However, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities due to closure of income tax examinations, new regulatory or judicial pronouncements, or other relevant events. As a result, our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk