Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impact our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially.  

If the current economic uncertainty and capital market turbulence is prolonged, our planned liquidity actions may not be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs.  

We have a significant amount of term debt that matures in early 2010, and we are reliant upon our planned liquidity actions to repay these obligations. If our plans to maximize cash flow in our Manufacturing businesses through realignment of production levels, cost reduction activities and reduction of working capital, and our plans to liquidate non-captive finance receivables in our Finance segment, are not successful, we may not generate enough cash to repay our obligations without obtaining additional financing. We no longer have access to a back-up credit facility, and we may not be successful in obtaining additional financing on acceptable rates and terms, if at all. In such event, we may need to take additional cost-cutting or other measures that could adversely impact our business and results of operations.  

Measures we are taking to enhance our liquidity position in our Finance segment, including our plan to exit portions of Textron Financial Corporation’s commercial finance business, may not work in the manner and within the timeframe that we anticipate or at all.  

We have announced a plan to exit all of the commercial finance business of our Finance segment, other than that portion of the business supporting the financing of customer purchases of Textron-manufactured products. The exit plan will be effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. We cannot be certain that we will be able to accomplish the orderly liquidation or selected sales on a timely or successful basis or in a manner that will enhance our liquidity position. We may encounter delays and difficulties in effecting an orderly liquidation of our various receivable portfolios as a result of many factors, including the inability of our customers to find alternative financing, which could expose us to increased credit losses, as well as existing contractual limitations. We may not be able to accomplish sales of the receivables that have been designated for sale or transfer at the pricing that we anticipate or in the timeframe that we anticipate. We may be required to make additional mark-to-market or other adjustments against assets that we intend to sell or to take additional reserves against assets that we intend to retain. We may change our current strategy based on either our performance and liquidity position or changes in external factors  

7   

affecting the value, and/or marketability of our assets, which could result in changes in the classification of assets we intend to hold for investment and additional mark-to-market adjustments. We may incur higher costs than anticipated as a result of this exit plan or be subject to claims made by third parties, and the exit plan may result in exacerbated credit losses. Moreover, our withdrawal from these lines of business will reduce the income and cash flow that our Finance segment generates in future years. Our failure to accomplish the exit plan successfully could result in continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Current levels of credit market volatility are unprecedented, which may continue to disrupt our access (including our Finance group’s access) to the capital markets, and other sources of liquidity may not be available.  

Due to unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption in the credit markets beginning in the second half of 2008, we have experienced difficulty in accessing our historical sources of financing at favorable rates and terms. The continued deterioration of the credit markets has adversely impacted our liquidity. This situation has been exacerbated by the recent downgrades of our credit ratings, which have adversely impacted our ability to access the credit markets. Given the current economic environment and the risks associated with the capital markets in general, including the current unavailability to us of public unsecured term debt and difficulty we had in accessing sufficient commercial paper on a daily basis, on February 3, 2009, we borrowed the entire available balance of the $3.0 billion committed bank credit lines available to Textron and Textron Financial Corporation. However, the additional liquidity provided by the bank line draw may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and we may need to obtain additional financing or raise additional capital.  

We are continuing to explore other potential avenues of liquidity, including funding sources in the capital markets, sales of other assets within our Manufacturing group and new financing structures for the Finance group. However, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital as and when required if the financial markets remain in turmoil, and any capital we raise may be on terms that are dilutive to existing shareholders or otherwise unfavorable to us. Any sales of other assets that we may carry out may be completed on unfavorable terms or cause us to incur charges, and we would lose the potential for market upside on those assets in a market recovery. New financing structures may not be available on acceptable rates and terms. If our business continues to experience significant challenges, we may face other pressures, such as employee retention issues and potential loss of suppliers or distributors for our products.  

Payments required under our support agreement with Textron Financial Corporation could restrict our use of capital.  

As a result of the decision to downsize Textron Financial Corporation and the resulting accounting charges and adjustments recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008, under the terms of our support agreement with Textron Financial Corporation, we made a cash payment of $625 million to Textron Financial Corporation to maintain both the fixed charge coverage ratio required by the support agreement and the leverage ratio required by Textron Financial Corporation’s credit facility. This cash payment was recorded as a capital contribution to Textron Financial Corporation. We may be required to make additional capital contributions to Textron Financial Corporation in the future in order to maintain these ratios. While capital contributions to Textron Financial Corporation may not increase the aggregate amount of outstanding consolidated indebtedness of Textron and Textron Financial Corporation, such contributions could restrict our allocation of available capital for other purposes. In addition, recently, from time to time, Textron Financial Corporation has borrowed from us to meet its liquidity needs, and it may require further borrowings from us for its liquidity needs in the future, depending upon market conditions. Textron Financial Corporation’s need for borrowings from us could restrict our use of funds for other purposes.  

Our lowered credit ratings limit our access to the capital markets and increases the cost of our funding from the capital markets.  

The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us, including Textron Financial Corporation. Both our long- and short-term credit ratings have recently been subject to downgrades to the ratings disclosed on page 32 in the “Credit Ratings” section. In connection with these rating actions, the rating agencies have cited concerns about the Finance group, including execution risks associated with our decision to exit the non-captive finance businesses and the need for Textron Inc. to make capital contributions to Textron Financial Corporation, as well as lower-than-expected business and financial outlook for 2009, the increase in outstanding debt resulting from the drawdown on our credit facilities, weak economic conditions and continued liquidity and funding constraints. Failure to maintain investment grade credit ratings that are acceptable to investors would prevent us from accessing the commercial paper markets, and may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain other financing, as well as our access to the capital markets.  

Difficult conditions in the financial markets have adversely affected the business and results of operations of our Finance segment, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future.  

The financial performance of our Finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other credit products in its finance asset portfolios. Portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, or  

8   

geographic or industry concentrations, the ability of our customers to obtain alternative financing as our Finance segment exits certain lines of business, as well as the recent deterioration of the financial markets. Current financial market conditions have resulted in significant writedowns of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These writedowns, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions, and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies and defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when our collateral cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our finance receivable portfolio. Further deterioration of our Finance segment’s ability to successfully collect its finance receivable portfolio and to resolve problem accounts may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. As these current market conditions persist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations.  

The soundness of our suppliers, customers and business partners could affect our business and results of operations.  

All of our segments are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business partners, including automobile manufacturers and other industrial customers, customers of our Bell and Cessna products, home improvement retailers and original equipment manufacturers, many of which may be adversely affected by the volatile conditions in the financial markets. These conditions could result in financial instability or other adverse effects at any of our suppliers, customers or business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers or suppliers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers or other creditors. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.  

The soundness of financial institutions could adversely affect us.  

We have relationships with many financial institutions, and, from time to time, we execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, financial institutions or the financial services industry generally, could result in losses or defaults by these institutions. In the event that the volatility of the financial markets adversely affects these financial institutions or counterparties, we or other parties to the transactions with us may be unable to complete transactions as intended, including divestitures that may be subject to funding requirements on the part of the buyer, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

We have customer concentration with the U.S. Government.  

During 2008, we derived approximately 24% of our revenues from sales to a variety of U.S. Government entities. Our U.S. Government revenues have continued to grow both organically and through acquisitions. Our ability to compete successfully for and retain U.S. Government business is highly dependent on technical excellence, management proficiency, strategic alliances, cost-effective performance, and the ability to recruit and retain key personnel. Our revenues from the U.S. Government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various U.S. Government programs, primarily defense-related programs. The funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions. Although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for a U.S. Government program in which we provide products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. While the overall level of U.S. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and the U.S. Department of Defense’s military transformation initiatives, we can give no assurance that such spending will continue to grow or not be reduced. Significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.  

U.S. Government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions.  

The U.S. Government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. If any of our contracts are terminated by the U.S. Government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a  

9   

subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. In any such event, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations.  

We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. Our U.S. Government contracts contain provisions that allow the U.S. Government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business.  

Cost overruns on U.S. Government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business.  

Contract and program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Estimates of award fees also are used in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of these estimates, it is likely that different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future financial results of operations.  

Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. However, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards.  

Delays in aircraft delivery schedules, cancellation of orders or decline in demand for our aircraft products may adversely affect our financial results.  

Aircraft customers, including sellers of fractional share interests, may respond to weak economic conditions by delaying delivery of orders or canceling orders. Weakness in the economy may result in fewer hours flown on existing aircraft and, consequently, lower demand for spare parts and maintenance. Weak economic conditions also may cause reduced demand for used business jets or helicopters, including cancellation or deferral of existing orders. We may accept used aircraft on trade-in that would be subject to fluctuations in the fair market value of the aircraft while in inventory. In addition, both U.S. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry; new regulations imposing additional regulatory, aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions may adversely impact demand for business jets and/or helicopters. Reduced demand for new and used aircraft, spare parts and maintenance can have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations.  

Developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties.  

Delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft products and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. These delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. We also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. A reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations.  

10   

Our joint venture, teaming and other arrangements involve risks and uncertainties.  

We have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or related business partner failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements.  

We may make acquisitions and dispositions that increase the risks of our business.  

We may enter into acquisitions or dispositions in the future in an effort to enhance shareholder value. Acquisitions or dispositions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. With respect to acquisitions, such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses’ markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. With respect to dispositions, the decision to dispose of a business or asset may result in a writedown of the related assets if the fair market value of the assets, less costs of disposal, is less than the book value. In addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. We may also underestimate the costs of retained liabilities or indemnification obligations. In addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions or dispositions may divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations.  

Our operations could be adversely affected by interruptions of production that are beyond our control.  

Our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. In addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. Such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations.  

Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues.  

Approximately 9,400 of our employees, or 22% of our total employees, are unionized. As a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. In addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations.  

In addition to our workforce, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. Work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. Work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. Any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations.  

Our international business is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.  

Our international business exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business, and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow. Our international business is subject to local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs.  

We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims.  

We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement, employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. Under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the U.S. Government could result in our being suspended or debarred from U.S. Government contracting for a period of time. On the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and  

11   

claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. However, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period.  

The levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover writedowns or losses.  

In addition to reserves at our Finance segment, we establish reserves in our manufacturing segments to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value writedowns on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, warranty costs and litigation. These reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers.  

In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. The effect of these matters on our financial results depends, in some cases, on our ability to obtain insurance covering potential losses at reasonable rates.  

Currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results.  

We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations.  

We may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures.  

In some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. In some cases, we are able to offset these reductions through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies. However, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance.  

We rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. We depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet our contractual obligations to our customers. Our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. Such events may adversely affect our financial results of operations or damage our reputation and relationships with our customers. The risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular product or service.  

The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results.  

Our earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. This is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where the contributions to those plans are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. If the actual investment return and rates prove materially different from our assumptions, this could adversely impact the amount of pension expense and require larger contributions to the plans. Also, changing pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans. In addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. Continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate increases the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. Increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations.  

Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.  

We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability.  

12   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None  

Item 2. Properties