PART I  

Item 1. Business  

Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative solutions and services around the world. We have approximately 43,000 employees worldwide. Textron Inc. was founded in 1923 and reincorporated in Delaware on July 31, 1967. Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Textron Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Textron Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

Since the beginning of 2008, we have conducted our business through five operating segments: Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems, Industrial and Finance. Prior to 2008, the Bell segment consisted of two divisions, Bell Helicopter and Textron Systems. In 2008, we changed our segment reporting to separate Textron Systems into its own segment, initially named “Defense & Intelligence,” and to report Bell Helicopter as its own segment, Bell. All periods presented herein have been restated to reflect the new segment reporting structure.  

Four of our operating segments represent our manufacturing businesses: Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial. Our fifth segment consists of our Finance business. A description of the business of each of our segments is set forth below. Our business segments include operations that are unincorporated divisions of Textron Inc. and others that are separately incorporated subsidiaries. Financial information by business segment and geographic area appears in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 87 through 89 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 17 through 27 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated.  

During the second half of the year, turmoil in the capital markets and the deepening recession significantly impacted many of our businesses. On December 22, 2008, we announced our plan to exit the non-captive commercial finance business in the Finance segment. We also announced a restructuring program designed to reduce costs across the company. See the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section beginning on page 28 for a discussion of these actions and for a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources.  

Cessna Segment  

Based on unit sales, Cessna Aircraft Company is the world’s largest manufacturer of general aviation aircraft. Cessna currently has four major product lines: Citation business jets, Caravan single engine turboprops, Cessna single engine piston aircraft and aftermarket services. Revenues in the Cessna segment accounted for approximately 40%, 40% and 38% of our total revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

The family of business jets currently produced by Cessna includes the Mustang, Citation CJ1+, Citation CJ2+, Citation CJ3, Citation CJ4, Citation Encore+, Citation XLS+, Citation Sovereign and Citation X. First customer deliveries of the Citation CJ4 are scheduled to commence in 2010. In 2008, Cessna began developing the Citation Columbus, a wide-body, eight-passenger business jet designed for intercontinental travel.  

The Cessna Caravan is the world’s best-selling utility turboprop. Caravans are offered in four models: the Grand Caravan, the Super Cargomaster, the Caravan 675 and the Caravan Amphibian. Caravans are used in the U.S. primarily for overnight express package shipments and for personal transportation. International uses of Caravans include humanitarian flights, tourism and freight transport.  

Cessna offers nine models in its single engine piston product line, which include the four-place Skyhawk, Skyhawk SP, Skylane, Turbo Skylane, Cessna 350 Corvalis, Cessna 400 Corvalis TT, six-place Stationair, Turbo Stationair and the two-place Model 162 SkyCatcher. First customer deliveries of the SkyCatcher are scheduled to commence in late 2009.  

The Citation family of aircraft currently is supported by 10 Citation Service Centers owned or operated by Cessna, along with authorized independent service stations and centers located in more than 22 countries throughout the world. Cessna-owned Service Centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Cessna also provides around-the-clock parts support for Citation aircraft. Cessna Caravan and single engine piston customers receive product support through independently owned service stations and around-the-clock parts support through Cessna.  

1   

Cessna markets its products worldwide primarily through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives, depending upon the product line. Cessna has several competitors in various market segments. Cessna’s aircraft compete with other aircraft that vary in size, speed, range, capacity, handling characteristics and price. Cessna operates a business jet fractional ownership business through a joint venture called CitationShares. Cessna’s current ownership interest in CitationShares is approximately 90%. This business offers shares of Citation aircraft for operation throughout the contiguous U.S. and in Canada, Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and Bermuda. CitationShares also has an advance purchase jet aircraft charter product called the Vector Jetcard.  

Bell Segment  

Bell Helicopter is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and helicopter-related spare parts and services in the world. Bell manufactures for both military and commercial applications. Revenues for Bell accounted for approximately 20%, 20% and 21 % of our total revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and support to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the U.S. Bell is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters to the U.S. Government and, in association with The Boeing Company, the only supplier of military tiltrotor aircraft. Bell’s major U.S. Government programs are the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters.  

Bell is teamed with The Boeing Company to develop, produce and support the V-22 Osprey tiltrotor aircraft for the U.S. Department of Defense. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. The U.S. Government has issued contracts for 285 production V-22 aircraft through production Lot 16, of which 98 have been delivered as of the end of 2008. The U.S. Government’s program of record for the V-22 calls for a total of 458 production units.  

The U.S. Marine Corps H-1 helicopter program includes a utility model and an advanced attack model, the UH-1Y and the AH-1Z, respectively, both of which were designed to have 84% parts commonality between them. Through production Lot 5, the U.S. Government has contracted for the production of 37 UH-1Y aircraft and 12 AH-1Z aircraft. We have delivered a combined total of 22 of these aircraft as of the end of 2008. In August 2008, the UH-1Y was approved for full-rate production, and the AH-1Z was extended for limited production, pending a Phase III Operational Evaluation in 2010. The U.S. Government’s program of record for the H-1 program calls for a total of 280 production units, 100 of which are utility models, and 180 of which are attack models.  

Bell also is a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters and support to corporate, offshore petroleum exploration and development, utility, and charter, police, fire, rescue and emergency medical helicopter operators. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types, including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The commercial helicopters currently offered by Bell include the 206, 407 and 412; in addition, the 429 is expected to be certified in 2009.  

Bell’s Customer Support and Service division provides post-sale service and support to its customers for its installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters and tiltrotors through a network of four Bell-owned service centers, more than 140 independent service centers and six parts distribution centers that are located throughout the world. Collectively, these service centers offer logistics support, including parts, support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repairs, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, post-sale customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field service and product support engineering.  

Bell competes against a number of competitors based in the U.S. and other countries for its helicopter business, and its parts and support business competes against numerous competitors around the world. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support, contract performance and reputation.  

Textron Systems Segment  

Textron Systems is a primary supplier to the defense, aerospace and general aviation markets, providing approximately 15%, 11% and 10% of Textron’s revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This segment’s principal strategy is to address the U.S. Department of Defense’s emphasis on precision engagement and network-centric warfare by leveraging advances in information technology in the development and production of networked sensors, weapons and the associated algorithms and software. Textron Systems manufactures unmanned systems, precision weapons, airborne and ground-based surveillance systems, sophisticated intelligence and situational awareness software, armored vehicles and turrets, reciprocating piston aircraft engines, and aircraft and missile control actuators, valves and related components. While this segment sells most of its products to U.S. customers, it also sells certain products to customers outside the U.S. through sales  

2   

representatives and distributors located in various global locations. Textron Systems includes seven operating units: AAI Corporation (AAI), HR Textron, Lycoming Engines, Overwatch Geospatial Systems, Overwatch Tactical Operations, Textron Defense Systems and Textron Marine & Land Systems.  

Intelligent aerospace and defense systems provided by Textron Systems, through AAI, include: tactical unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), training and simulation systems, automated aircraft test and maintenance equipment, armament systems, aviation ground support equipment, countersniper detection systems, and logistical, engineering and supply chain services. AAI is also the prime system integrator for the U.S. Army’s premier tactical UAS, the Shadow®, which includes the One System® Ground Control Station — the U.S. Army’s standard for interoperability of manned and unmanned airborne assets.  

Textron Systems, through Textron Defense Systems, is also a tier-one supplier of unattended ground sensors and intelligent munitions systems for the U.S. Army’s Future Combat System. Textron Systems also is the U.S. Air Force’s prime contractor for the Sensor Fuzed Weapon and, through its HR Textron operating unit, is a subcontractor to The Boeing Company for tail actuation systems on the Joint Direct Attack Munition and the next generation Small Diameter Bomb.  

Textron Systems, through Textron Marine & Land Systems, has produced and delivered approximately 1,875 armored security vehicles (ASV) for the U.S. Army. The current contract calls for approximately 780 additional units through July 2010; in addition, the U.S. Army may exercise various options to acquire an additional 164 units through 2010. The ASVs currently are deployed in locations around the globe, particularly in Iraq and Afghanistan, serving various missions, including convoy escorts, patrolling, checkpoints, forward operating base patrol, urban operations, reconnaissance and surveillance patrols, combat observation lasing teams, and tactical overwatch for civilian and military police operations.  

Textron Systems competes against a number of competitors in the U.S. and other countries on the basis of technology, contract performance, price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation.  

Industrial Segment  

The Industrial segment includes our Kautex, Greenlee, E-Z-GO and Jacobsen businesses.  

Kautex, headquartered in Bonn, Germany, is a leading developer and manufacturer of blow-molded fuel systems for cars, light trucks, all-terrain vehicles and watercraft, and windshield and headlamp washer systems, as well as selective catalytic reduction systems used to reduce emissions from diesel engines. In 2009, two global auto manufacturers plan to launch car models using Kautex’s next generation fuel system technology. Kautex serves the automobile market worldwide, with operating facilities near its major customers all around the world. In addition to fuel systems and washer systems, Kautex produces in North America metal fuel fillers and engine camshafts for the automotive market. To a lesser extent, Kautex serves other industrial customers with bottles and plastic containers for food, household, laboratory and industrial uses. These products are developed and produced in Germany.  

Revenues of Kautex accounted for approximately 12%, 14% and 14% of our total revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Kautex has a limited number of competitors worldwide, some of which are affiliated with the original equipment manufacturers that comprise Kautex’s targeted customer base. Competition typically is based on a number of factors, including price, product quality and reliability, prior experience and available manufacturing capacity.  

Greenlee designs and manufactures powered equipment, electrical test and measurement instruments, hand and hydraulic powered tools, and electrical and fiber optic connectors under the Greenlee, Fairmont, Klauke, Paladin Tools, Progressive and Tempo brand names. The products principally are used in the electrical construction and maintenance, telecommunications, data communications, wiring and plumbing industries. Greenlee distributes its products through a global network of sales representatives and distributors and sells its products directly to home improvement retailers and original equipment manufacturers. Through a joint venture, Greenlee also sells hand and powered tools for the plumbing and mechanical industries in North America. The Greenlee businesses face competition from numerous manufacturers based primarily on price and product quality and reliability.  

E-Z-GO designs, manufactures and sells golf cars and off-road utility vehicles powered by electric and internal combustion engines under the E-Z-GO name, as well as multipurpose utility vehicles under the E-Z-GO and Cushman brand names. E-Z-GO’s commercial customers consist primarily of golf courses, resort communities and municipalities, as well as commercial and industrial users such as airports, college campuses  

3   

and factories. E-Z-GO’s golf cars and utility vehicles also are sold in the consumer market. Sales are made through a network of dealers and directly to end users. E-Z-GO has two major competitors for golf cars and several other competitors for off-road utility vehicles. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation.  

Jacobsen designs and manufactures professional turf-maintenance equipment and specialized turf-care vehicles. Major brand names include Ransomes, Jacobsen and Cushman. Jacobsen’s commercial customers consist primarily of golf courses, resort communities, sporting venues and municipalities. Sales are made through a network of distributors and dealers. Jacobsen has two major competitors for professional turf-maintenance equipment and several other competitors for specialized turf care. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, and product support.  

Finance Segment  

Our Finance segment consists of Textron Financial Corporation, a diversified commercial finance company with operations in six major divisions: Asset-Based Lending, Aviation Finance, Distribution Finance, Golf Finance, Resort Finance and Structured Capital.  

In October 2008, we announced that, due to market conditions, our Finance segment would be exiting its Asset-Based Lending and Structured Capital businesses, as well as several additional product lines, representing about $2.0 billion in managed receivables. Then, due to continued weakness in the economy and in order to address our long-term liquidity position, on December 22, 2008, we announced a plan to exit all of the commercial finance business of our Finance segment, other than that portion of the business supporting customer purchases of products that we manufacture. The exit plan will be effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales and is expected to be substantially complete over the next two to four years.  

Our Finance segment continues to originate new customer relationships and receivables in the Aviation Finance division, which provides financing for new and used Cessna business jets, single engine turboprops, piston-engine airplanes and Bell helicopters, and the Golf Finance division, which provides term financing for E-Z-GO golf cars and Jacobsen turf-care equipment. Our Finance segment’s services are offered primarily in North America. However, our Finance segment finances certain Textron products worldwide, principally Bell helicopters and Cessna aircraft.  

In 2008, 2007 and 2006, our Finance segment paid our manufacturing segments $1.0 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products that it financed. Our Cessna and Industrial segments also received proceeds in those years of $18 million, $27 million and $63 million, respectively, from the sale of equipment from their manufacturing operations to our Finance segment for use under operating lease agreements.  

The commercial finance environment in which our Finance segment continues to operate in is highly fragmented and has traditionally been extremely competitive. Our Finance segment is subject to competition from various types of financing institutions, including banks, leasing companies, commercial finance companies and finance operations of equipment vendors. Competition within the commercial finance industry is primarily focused on price, term, structure and service.  

Our Finance segment’s largest business risks are continued access to financing through the capital markets and the collectibility of its finance receivable portfolio. See “Finance Portfolio Quality” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 27 for a discussion of the credit quality of this portfolio.  

4   

Backlog  

Our backlog at the end of 2008 and 2007 is summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

At January 3, 2009, approximately 99% of the U.S. Government backlog was funded. Unfunded backlog represents the award value of U.S. Government contracts received, generally related to cost-plus type contracts, in excess of the funding formally appropriated by the U.S. Government. The U.S. Government is obligated only up to the funded amount of the contract. Additional funding is appropriated as the contract progresses.  

Approximately 75% of our total backlog at January 3, 2009, represents orders that are not expected to be filled in 2009, including $1.4 billion in orders for the new Citation CJ4 aircraft with first customer deliveries scheduled for 2010, and $2.3 billion in orders for the Citation Columbus aircraft, which began development in 2008 and is not expected to provide significant revenues until the latter half of the next decade.  

Cessna’s backlog includes approximately $1.5 billion in orders from a major fractional jet customer. Orders from this fractional aircraft operator are included in backlog when the customer enters into a definitive master agreement and has established preliminary delivery dates for the aircraft. Delivery dates are subject to change through amendment to the master agreement. Orders from other Cessna customers, which cover a wide spectrum of industries worldwide, are included in backlog when the customer enters into a definitive purchase order. An initial customer deposit is required upon entering into a definitive purchase agreement with subsequent additional deposits at certain milestone dates. Orders remain in backlog until the aircraft is delivered or the customer requests cancellation. Upon cancellation, deposits are used to defray costs including remarketing fees, cost to reconfigure the aircraft and other costs incurred as a result of the cancellation. Remaining deposits, if any, may be refunded at our discretion.  

The deepening recession and turmoil in the capital markets have significantly impacted many of our customers during the second half of 2008. As a result, a significant number of Cessna’s customers have requested deferral of their scheduled jet delivery date, transition to a smaller or less expensive jet model, or in some cases, to cancel their order. We also identified customers interested in accelerating their aircraft delivery date to replace deferrals or cancellations. As a result, we have lowered our planned jet production level for 2009. We expect ongoing volatility in the timing of fulfillment of our Cessna backlog until economic conditions stabilize.  

U.S. Government Contracts  

In 2008, approximately 24% of our consolidated revenues were generated by or resulted from contracts with the U.S. Government. This business is subject to competition, changes in procurement policies and regulations, the continuing availability of funding, which is dependent upon congressional appropriations, national and international priorities for defense spending, world events, and the size and timing of programs in which we may participate.  

Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including, if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government will not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and will be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress  

5   

payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; and (c) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source.  

Research and Development  

Information regarding our research and development expenditures is contained in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 84 and 85 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Patents and Trademarks  

We own, or are licensed under, numerous patents throughout the world relating to products, services and methods of manufacturing. Patents developed while under contract with the U.S. Government may be subject to use by the U.S. Government. We also own or license active trademark registrations and pending trademark applications in the U.S. and in various foreign countries or regions, as well as trade names and service marks. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole. Some of these trademarks, trade names and service marks are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, including: AAI; AH-1Z; APCO; BA609; Bell/Agusta Aerospace Company, LLC; Bell Helicopter; Bravo; Cadillac Gage; Caravan; Caravan Amphibian; Caravan 675; Cessna; Cessna 350; Cessna 400; Citation; Citation Encore+; CitationShares; Citation Sovereign; Citation X; Citation XLS+; CJ1; CJ1+; CJ2; CJ2+; CJ3; CJ4; Eclipse; Excel; E-Z-GO; Fairmont; Fly Bell; Fly Smart; Global Technology Center; Grand Caravan; Greenlee; HR Textron; Huey II; H-1; Kautex; Kiowa Warrior; Klauke; Lycoming; McCauley; Modular Affordable Product Lines; Mustang; Next Generation Fuel System; Overwatch Systems; Paladin; PDCue; Power Advantage; Progressive; ProParts; Quick Draw Loan; Rothenberger LLC; RXV; Sensor Fuzed Weapon; Shadow; SkyBOOKS; SkyCatcher; Skyhawk; Skyhawk SP; Skyhawk TD; Skylane; SkyPLUS; Sovereign; Stationair; ST 4X4; Super Cargomaster; SuperCobra; SYMTX; TDCue; Tempo; Textron; Textron Business Services; Textron Business Systems; Textron Defense Systems; Textron Financial Corporation; Textron Marine & Land Systems; Textron Six Sigma; Textron Systems; Turbo Skylane; Turbo Stationair; UAV SYSTEMS SPECIALIST; UH-1Y; US Helicopter; Vector; Vector Jetcard; V-22 Osprey; XLS; 429; 429 Global Ranger; and 429 Light Twin. These marks and their related trademark designs and logotypes (and variations of the foregoing) are trademarks, trade names or service marks of Textron Inc., its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures.  

Environmental Considerations  

Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment. Compliance with these laws and expenditures for environmental control facilities has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Additional information regarding environmental matters is contained in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 83 and 84 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Employees  

At January 3, 2009, we had approximately 43,000 employees.  

Available Information  

We make available free of charge on our Internet website (www.textron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Forward-Looking Information  

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are forward-looking statements, including those that discuss strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the statements, including the risk factors contained herein and the following: (a) changes in worldwide economic or political conditions that impact demand for our products, interest rates and foreign exchange rates; (b) the interruption of production at our facilities or our customers or suppliers; (c) performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and business partners; (d) our ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the U.S. Government; (e) the U.S. Government’s ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us for the U.S. Government’s convenience or for our failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, and, under certain circumstances, to suspend or debar us as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards; (f) changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget, including those related to Operation Iraqi Freedom,  

6   

Operation Enduring Freedom and the Global War on Terrorism; (g) changes in national or international funding priorities, U.S. and foreign military budget constraints and determinations, and government policies on the export and import of military and commercial products; (h) legislative or regulatory actions impacting our operations or demand for our products; (i) the ability to control costs and successful implementation of various cost-reduction programs, including the enterprise-wide restructuring program; (j) the timing of new product launches and certifications of new aircraft products; (k) the occurrence of slowdowns or downturns in customer markets in which our products are sold or supplied or where Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) offers financing; (l) changes in aircraft delivery schedules, or cancellation or deferral of orders; (m) the impact of changes in tax legislation; (n) the extent to which we are able to pass raw material price increases through to customers or offset such price increases by reducing other costs; (o) our ability to offset, through cost reductions, pricing pressure brought by original equipment manufacturer customers; (p) our ability to realize full value of receivables; (q) the availability and cost of insurance; (r) increases in pension expenses and other postretirement employee costs; (s) TFC’s ability to maintain portfolio credit quality and certain minimum levels of financial performance required under its committed credit facilities and under Textron’s support agreement with TFC; (t) TFC’s access to financing, including securitizations, at competitive rates; (u) our ability to successfully exit from TFC’s commercial finance business, other than the captive finance business, including effecting an orderly liquidation or sale of certain TFC portfolios and businesses; (v) uncertainty in estimating market value of TFC’s receivables held for sale and reserves for TFC’s receivables to be retained; (w) uncertainty in estimating contingent liabilities and establishing reserves to address such contingencies; (x) risks and uncertainties related to acquisitions and dispositions, including difficulties or unanticipated expenses in connection with the consummation of acquisitions or dispositions, the disruption of current plans and operations, or the failure to achieve anticipated synergies and opportunities; (y) the efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products; (z) the launching of significant new products or programs which could result in unanticipated expenses; (aa) bankruptcy or other financial problems at major suppliers or customers that could cause disruptions in our supply chain or difficulty in collecting amounts owed by such customers; and (bb) continued volatility and further deterioration of the capital markets.  

Item 1A. Risk Factors