Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

Business Overview  

Foot Locker, Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates in two reportable segments — Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers. The Athletic Stores segment is one of the largest athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the world, whose formats include Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Champs Sports, Footaction, and CCS. The Direct-to-Customers segment reflects CCS and Footlocker.com, Inc., which sells, through its affiliates, including Eastbay, Inc., to customers through catalogs and Internet websites.  

The Foot Locker brand is one of the most widely recognized names in the market segments in which the Company operates, epitomizing high quality for the active lifestyle customer. This brand equity has aided the Company’s ability to successfully develop and increase its portfolio of complementary retail store formats, specifically Lady Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker, as well as Footlocker.com, Inc., its direct-to-customers business. Through various marketing channels, including television campaigns and sponsorships of various sporting events, Foot Locker, Inc. reinforces its image with a consistent message; namely, that it is the destination store for athletically inspired shoes and apparel with a wide selection of merchandise in a full-service environment.   

9 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Athletic Stores 

The Company operates 3,500 stores in the Athletic Stores segment. The following is a brief description of the Athletic Stores segment’s operating businesses:  

Foot Locker — Foot Locker is a leading global athletic footwear and apparel retailer. Its stores offer the latest in athletic-inspired performance products, manufactured primarily by the leading athletic brands. Foot Locker offers products for a wide variety of activities including basketball, running, and training. Its 1,911 stores are located in 21 countries including 1,171 in the United States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, 129 in Canada, 518 in Europe, and a combined 93 in Australia and New Zealand. The domestic stores have an average of 2,400 selling square feet and the international stores have an average of 1,500 selling square feet.  

Lady Foot Locker — Lady Foot Locker is a leading U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for active women. Its stores carry major athletic footwear and apparel brands, as well as casual wear and an assortment of apparel designed for a variety of activities, including running, walking, toning, and fitness. Its 415 stores are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, and have an average of 1,300 selling square feet.  

Kids Foot Locker — Kids Foot Locker is a national children’s athletic retailer that offers the largest selection of brand-name athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for children. Its stores feature an environment geared to appeal to both parents and children. Its 301 stores are located in the United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and have an average of 1,400 selling square feet.  

Champs Sports — Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in North America. Its product categories include athletic footwear, apparel and accessories, and a focused assortment of equipment. This combination allows Champs Sports to differentiate itself from other mall-based stores by presenting complete product assortments in a select number of sporting activities. Its 552 stores are located throughout the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,500 selling square feet.  

Footaction — Footaction is a national athletic footwear and apparel retailer. The primary customers are young males that seek street-inspired athletic styles. Its 319 stores are located throughout the United States and Puerto Rico and focus on marquee footwear and branded apparel. The Footaction stores have an average of 2,900 selling square feet.  

CCS — CCS serves the needs of the 12-18 year old skater while maintaining credibility with core skaters of all ages. During 2009, the Company opened two stores under the banner of CCS. This format complements the CCS catalog and internet business, which was acquired in November 2008. The two stores are located in New Jersey and California and average 2,000 selling square feet.  

Store Profile  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

10 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Direct-to-Customers  

The Company’s direct-to-customers segment is multi-branded and multi-channeled. This segment sells, through its affiliates, directly to customers through catalogs and its Internet websites. Eastbay, one of the affiliates, is among the largest direct marketers in the United States, providing the high school athlete with a complete sports solution including athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, team licensed, and private-label merchandise. In 2008, the Company purchased CCS, an Internet and catalog retailer of skateboard equipment, apparel, footwear, and accessories targeted primarily to teenaged boys. The retail store operations of CCS are included in the Athletic Stores segment. This segment also operates websites aligned with the brand names of its store banners (footlocker.com, ladyfootlocker.com, kidsfootlocker.com, footaction.com, champssports.com, and ccs.com).  

Franchise Operations  

In March of 2006, the Company entered into a ten-year area development agreement with the Alshaya Trading Co. W.L.L., in which the Company agreed to enter into separate license agreements for the operation of Foot Locker stores, subject to certain restrictions, located within the Middle East. Additionally, in March 2007, the Company entered into a ten-year agreement with another third party for the exclusive right to open and operate Foot Locker stores in the Republic of Korea. A total of 22 franchised stores were operating at January 30, 2010. Revenue from the franchised stores was not significant for any of the periods presented. These stores are not included in the Company’s operating store count above.  

Overview of Consolidated Results  

The challenging environment experienced in 2008 continued into 2009 as unemployment levels continued to rise and consumer confidence dropped further, which resulted in a decline in consumer spending. The Company’s domestic operations were negatively affected; however, our international operations remained stable. We began the year with inventory levels in line with sales, which allowed us to reduce the level of promotional markdowns. The Company reported net income from continuing operations of $47 million or $0.30 per share for the year ended January 30, 2010, which compares with a loss of $79 million or $0.52 per share for the year ended January 31, 2009. Several factors affect the comparability of these two years, specifically:  

  • Impairment and other charges, before tax, totaled $41 million and $259 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively.    

  • Impairment charges of $32 million were recorded in 2009 to reflect the impairment of store long-lived assets, such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements, at the Company’s Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Footaction, and Champs Sports divisions for 787 stores.    

  • A charge of $4 million was recorded in 2009 to write off certain software development costs for the Direct-to-Customers segment as a result of management’s decision to terminate this project.    

  • A charge of $5 million was recorded in January 2010, to consolidate the Company’s Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker and Footaction operations under one management structure, as well as certain corporate staff reductions taken to improve corporate efficiency.    

  • As the Company began its transition to a new apparel strategy, which requires that the inventory be seasonally relevant and current, the Company recorded in 2009, within cost of sales, a $14 million inventory reserve for certain aged apparel.    

  • Also included in 2009 are Canadian provincial tax rate changes that resulted in a $4 million reduction in the value of the Company’s net deferred tax assets.     

11 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The following table provides a reconciliation of reported GAAP results to income from continuing operations excluding impairment charges, the inventory reserve, Canadian tax rate changes, reorganization costs, store closing program costs, and the income tax valuation adjustment in 2007, which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. The Company believes this information is a useful measure to investors because it allows for a more direct comparison of the Company’s performance for the year with the Company’s performance in prior periods.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) The $14 million inventory reserve pre-tax charge is included in cost of sales.    

Other highlights of the year:  

  • Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at January 30, 2010 were $589 million.    

  • Cash flow provided by operations was $346 million, which includes qualified pension contributions totaling $100 million, thereby improving the funded status of the qualified plans to 87 percent in 2009 as compared with 72 percent in 2008.    

  • Merchandise inventories at January 30, 2010 were $1,037 million, which represents a reduction of $83 million from the corresponding prior-year period. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, inventories declined by approximately 10 percent.    

  • Dividends totaling $94 million were declared and paid.    

  • The Company closed 179 underproductive stores, most of which were at lease expiration.     

12 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The following table represents a summary of sales and operating results, reconciled to income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) The year ended January 30, 2010 includes non-cash impairment charges totaling $32 million, which were recorded to write-down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements at the Company’s Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Footaction, and Champs Sports divisions. The year ended January 31, 2009 includes a $241 million charge representing long-lived store asset impairment, goodwill and other intangibles impairment and store closing costs related to the Company’s U.S. operations. The year ended February 2, 2008 includes a $128 million charge representing impairment and store closing costs related to the Company’s U.S. operations.    

  (2) Included in the results for the year ended January 30, 2010 is a non-cash impairment charge of $4 million to write off software development costs.    

  (3) During the first quarter of 2007, the Company launched a new family footwear concept, Footquarters. The concept’s results did not meet the Company’s expectations and, therefore, the Company decided not to invest further in this business. These stores were converted to the Company’s other formats. Included in the operating loss of $6 million was $2 million of costs associated with the removal of signage and the write-off of unusable fixtures.    

  (4) During 2009, the Company adjusted its 1999 restructuring reserves to reflect a favorable lease termination. During 2007, the Company adjusted its 1993 Repositioning and 1991 Restructuring reserve by $2 million primarily due to favorable lease terminations.    

  (5) During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company restructured its organization by consolidating the Lady Foot Locker, Foot Locker U.S., Kids Foot Locker and Footaction businesses in addition to reducing corporate staff, resulting in a $5 million charge. Included in corporate expense for the year ended January 31, 2009 is a $3 million other-than-temporary impairment charge related to the investment in the Reserve International Liquidity Fund. Additionally, for the year ended January 31, 2009 the Company recorded a $15 million impairment charge on the Northern Group note receivable.    

  (6) Other income includes non-operating items, such as gains from insurance recoveries, gains on the repurchase and retirement of bonds, royalty income, the changes in fair value, premiums paid and realized gains associated with foreign currency option contracts.    

Sales  

All references to comparable-store sales for a given period relate to sales from stores that are open at the period-end, that have been open for more than one year, and exclude the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. Accordingly, stores opened and closed during the period are not included. Sales from the Direct-to-Customers segment, excluding CCS sales, are included in the calculation of comparable-store sales for all periods presented. Sales from acquired businesses that include the purchase of inventory are included in the computation of comparable-store sales after 15 months of operations. Accordingly, CCS sales have been excluded in the computation of comparable-store sales.  

Sales decreased to $4,854 million, or by 7.3 percent as compared with 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales declined 6.1 percent as compared with 2008. Comparable-store sales decreased by 6.3 percent.   

13 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Sales of $5,237 million in 2008 decreased by 3.7 percent from sales of $5,437 million in 2007. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales declined 4.0 percent as compared with 2007. Comparable-store sales decreased by 3.2 percent.  

Gross Margin  

Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 27.4 percent in 2009 decreasing 50 basis points as compared with 2008. The decrease in the gross margin reflected an increase of 30 basis points in the merchandise margin rate due to lower markdowns, offset by an 80 basis point increase in the occupancy rate due to lower sales. Vendor allowances were essentially the same as compared with 2008 and did not significantly affect the gross margin rate. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a $14 million inventory reserve on certain aged apparel as part of its new apparel strategy. Excluding this charge, gross margin would have declined by 20 basis points as compared with 2008.  

Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 27.9 percent in 2008 increasing 180 basis points as compared with 2007. The increase in the gross margin represented an increase of 230 basis points in the merchandise margin rate reflecting lower markdowns. Lower sales in 2008 resulted in the occupancy rate increasing by 50 basis points, as a percentage of sales. The effect of reduced vendor allowances was not significant as compared with 2007.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses decreased by $75 million to $1,099 million in 2009, or by 6.4 percent, as compared with 2008. SG&A as a percentage of sales increased to 22.6 percent as compared with 22.4 percent in 2008, due to the decline in sales. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations in 2009, SG&A decreased by $64 million. This decrease reflects lower divisional expenses primarily due to operating fewer stores and compensation expense, offset, in part, by increased pension expense of $13 million.  

SG&A expenses decreased by $2 million to $1,174 million in 2008, or by 0.2 percent, as compared with 2007. SG&A as a percentage of sales increased to 22.4 percent as compared with 21.6 percent in 2007. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of sales is due to the decline in sales. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations in 2008, SG&A decreased by $9 million. This decrease reflects lower divisional expenses due to operating fewer stores, offset, in part, by an increase in corporate expenses primarily related to increased incentive compensation.  

Corporate Expense  

Corporate expense consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses as well as depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s corporate headquarters, centrally managed departments, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and other items.  

Corporate expense decreased by $20 million to $67 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense was $13 million in both 2009 and 2008. Included in 2008 corporate expense were charges that totaled $18 million, which represented a $3 million other-than-temporary impairment charge related to a short-term investment and a $15 million impairment charge related to the Northern Group note receivable. The balance of the change represents lower incentive compensation costs as well as income of $3 million related to the final settlement of the Visa/MasterCard litigation. These reductions in corporate expense were offset, in part, by higher pension expense.  

Corporate expense increased by $28 million to $87 million in 2008 as compared with 2007. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense amounted to $13 million in 2008 and $14 million in 2007. As noted above, corporate expense for 2008 included a $3 million other-than-temporary impairment charge related to a short-term investment and a $15 million impairment charge related to the Northern Group note receivable. During the first quarter of 2008, the principal owners of the Northern Group requested an extension on the repayment of the note, which was scheduled to be repaid on September 28, 2008. The Company determined, based on the Northern Group’s current financial condition and projected performance, that repayment of the note pursuant to the original terms of the purchase agreement was not likely. Excluding these charges, corporate expense increased by $10 million, which is primarily related to increased incentive compensation.   

14 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization of $112 million decreased by 13.8 percent in 2009 from $130 million in 2008. This decrease primarily reflects the effect of the impairment charges offset, in part, by increased depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s capital spending, as well as the amortization expense associated with the CCS customer list intangible. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations was not significant.  

Depreciation and amortization of $130 million decreased by 21.7 percent in 2008 from $166 million in 2007. This decrease primarily reflects the effect of the 2007 impairment charges offset, in part, by increased depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s capital spending. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations was not significant.  

Interest Expense, Net  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest expense of $13 million decreased by $3 million as compared with 2008. The decrease in interest expense primarily relates to the termination of the cross currency swaps, which represented expense of $3 million in 2008, as well as lower average debt outstanding during 2009. Interest expense in 2009 was also reduced by $1 million, reflecting the effect of the amortization of the gain realized from the termination of the interest rate swap. This was offset, in part, by higher fees associated with the revolving credit facility. The Company did not have any short-term borrowings for any of the periods presented. Interest income of $3 million declined from $11 million in 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates received on its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.  

Interest expense of $16 million decreased by $5 million in 2008 compared with $21 million in 2007. The reduction in interest expense primarily relates to the repayment of the term loan in May 2008 and the purchases and retirements of $6 million and $5 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, of the Company’s 8.50 percent debentures. Interest rate swap agreements reduced interest expense in 2008 by $2 million, while the cross currency swaps increased interest expense by $3 million. Interest income of $11 million declined from $20 million in 2007. Interest income is mainly generated through the investment of cash equivalents and short-term investments. The decline in interest income reflects the lower interest rates received on cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, which totaled $10 million in 2008 and $16 million in 2007. Additionally, the Company did not record accretion income related to the Northern Group note, which in the prior year totaled $2 million.  

Other Income  

Other income of $3 million in 2009 includes $4 million related to gains from insurance recoveries, gains on the purchase and retirement of bonds, and royalty income, partially offset by $1 million of foreign currency option contract premiums. The Company uses these derivatives to mitigate the effect of fluctuating foreign exchange rates on the reporting of foreign currency denominated earnings.  

Other income of $8 million in 2008 includes a net gain of $4 million, which is comprised of the changes in fair value, realized gains and premiums paid on foreign currency contracts. Additionally, 2008 includes a $3 million gain on lease terminations related to two lease interests in Europe.  

Income Taxes  

The effective tax rate for 2009 was an expense of 36.0 percent, as compared with a benefit of 20.8 percent in 2008. The effective tax rate changed primarily due to impairment charges in 2008, which created an overall book loss, coupled with the effect of an impairment of goodwill, a portion of which was not deductible for tax purposes, as well as 2009 Canadian provincial tax rate changes that resulted in a $4 million reduction in the value of the Company’s net deferred tax assets.   

15 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The effective tax rate for 2008 was a benefit of 20.8 percent as compared with a benefit of 187.0 percent in 2007. The effective income tax rate changed primarily due to the effect of the 2008 goodwill impairment, a portion of which is not deductible for tax purposes, the 2007 valuation allowance adjustment, and to a lesser extent, the mix of U.S. and international profits.  

Segment Information  

The Company’s two reportable segments, Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers, are based on its method of internal reporting. The Company evaluates performance based on several factors, the primary financial measure of which is division results. Division profit (loss) reflects income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, corporate expense, non-operating income, and net interest expense. Sales and division results for the Company’s reportable segments for the years ended January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 are presented below.  

Athletic Stores  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 compared with 2008  

Athletic Stores sales of $4,448 million decreased 8.2 percent in 2009, as compared with $4,847 million in 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, sales from the Athletic Stores segment decreased by 7.0 percent in 2009. Comparable-store sales for the Athletic Stores segment declined 6.2 percent as compared with prior year. The decline in sales for the year ended January 30, 2010 was primarily related to the domestic operations as the result of a decline in mall traffic and consumer spending in general. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales in Europe increased low single digits in 2009 as compared with 2008.  

Athletic Stores reported a division profit of $114 million in 2009 as compared with a loss of $59 million in 2008. Included in the results are impairment and other charges of $46 million and $241 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The 2009 results included impairment charges totaling $32 million, which were recorded to write down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements at the Company’s Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Footaction, and Champs Sports divisions for 787 stores. Additionally, in 2009 the Company recorded a $14 million inventory reserve on certain aged apparel. The 2008 results included a $241 million charge representing long-lived store asset impairment, goodwill and other intangibles impairment and store closing costs related to the Company’s U.S. operations. Excluding these charges, division profit decreased $22 million in 2009 as compared with the corresponding prior-year period, which relates primarily to the domestic businesses. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, division profits of international operations were essentially flat as compared with the corresponding prior-year period.  

2008 compared with 2007  

Athletic Stores sales of $4,847 million decreased 4.4 percent in 2008, as compared with $5,071 million in 2007. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, sales from athletic store formats decreased by 4.8 percent in 2008. Comparable-store sales for the Athletic Stores segment declined 3.6 percent as compared with prior year. The decline in sales for the year ended January 31, 2009 was primarily related to the domestic operations as the result of a decline in mall traffic and consumer spending in general. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales in Europe decreased low single digits in 2008 as compared with 2007. The sales of low profile styles negatively affected the first three quarters of 2008. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, sales of higher-priced marquee footwear and apparel increased, which more than offset the sales decline related to the low profile footwear styles.   

16 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Athletic Stores reported a loss of $59 million in 2008 as compared with a loss of $27 million in 2007, which was primarily attributable to the U.S. operations. Included in the results for 2008 and 2007 are impairment charges and store closing costs totaling $241 million and $128 million, respectively. Athletic Stores division loss for 2008 includes a $167 million goodwill impairment charge, a $67 million write-down of long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements for 868 stores at the Company’s U.S. store operations, $5 million of exit costs related to the closure of underperforming stores comprising primarily lease terminations and $2 million in other intangible impairment charges related to its tradenames. The Company performs its annual impairment test as of the beginning of each year; however, due to the macroeconomic conditions affecting retail and the significant decline in the Company’s common stock and market capitalization, plus a reasonable control premium, in relation to the book value, the Company determined that a triggering event had occurred and, therefore, performed an interim impairment test.  

During 2008, the fair value of the four reporting units containing goodwill was determined under step 1 of the goodwill impairment test based on a weighting of a discounted cash flow analysis using forward-looking projections of estimated future operating results and a guideline company methodology under the market approach. Based on this testing, the Company determined that the fair values, as determined under step 1 as described above, was less than the carrying values of the Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker and Footaction reporting unit and the Champs Sports reporting unit. Accordingly, the Company performed a step 2 analysis to determine the extent of the goodwill impairment and concluded that the goodwill of these two reporting units was fully impaired, resulting in a non-cash impairment charge of $167 million. There were no goodwill impairment charges in 2007. Excluding the impairment charges and store exit costs from both 2008 and 2007, division profit would have increased to $182 million in 2008 from $101 million in 2007. This increase in division profit primarily related to the domestic divisions as a result of lower promotional markdowns and reduced depreciation and amortization expense.  

Direct-to-Customers  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 compared with 2008  

Direct-to-Customers sales increased 4.1 percent to $406 million in 2009, as compared with $390 million in 2008, reflecting a comparable-store sales decrease of 6.8 percent, offset by additional sales from CCS, which was acquired during the fourth quarter of 2008. Internet sales increased by 6.8 percent to $344 million, as compared with 2008 reflecting continued growth in the store brands’ websites. Catalog sales decreased by 8.8 percent to $62 million in 2009 from $68 million in 2008. Management believes that the decrease in catalog sales, which was substantially offset by the increase in Internet sales, is a result of customers browsing and selecting products through its catalogs and then making their purchases via the Internet.  

The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $32 million in 2009, as compared with $43 million in 2008. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, was 7.9 percent in 2009 and 11.0 percent in 2008. Included in division profit is a $4 million impairment charge, which was recorded to write off certain software development costs as a result of management’s decision to terminate the project. Gross margin was negatively affected by the lack of close-out inventory purchases during the year. Additionally, division profit, as compared with the corresponding prior-year period, was negatively affected by $3 million in additional amortization expense related to the CCS customer list intangible asset.   

17 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

2008 compared with 2007  

Direct-to-Customers sales increased 7.1 percent to $390 million in 2008, as compared with $364 million in 2007, reflecting a comparable-store sales increase of 1.0 percent and additional sales from CCS, which was acquired during the fourth quarter of 2008. Internet sales increased by 12.2 percent to $322 million, as compared with 2007. Catalog sales decreased by 11.7 percent to $68 million in 2008 from $77 million in 2007. Management believes that the decrease in catalog sales, which was substantially offset by the increase in Internet sales, is a result of customers browsing and selecting products through its catalogs and then making their purchases via the Internet.  

The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $43 million in 2008, as compared with $40 million in 2007. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, was 11.0 percent in 2008 and 2007. The increase in division profit reflects the accretive effect of the acquisition of CCS.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Liquidity  

Generally, the Company’s primary source of cash has been from operations. The Company generally finances real estate with operating leases. The principal uses of cash have been to finance inventory requirements, capital expenditures related to store openings, store remodelings, information systems, and other support facilities, retirement plan contributions, quarterly dividend payments, interest payments, other cash requirements to support the development of its short-term and long-term operating strategies, and to fund other working capital requirements.  

Management believes its cash, cash equivalents, future cash flow from operations, and the Company’s current revolving credit facility will be adequate to fund these requirements. The Company may also from time to time repurchase its common stock or seek to retire or purchase outstanding debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. On February 16, 2010, the Company’s Board of Directors approved the extension of the Company’s 2007 common share repurchase program for an additional three years in the amount of $250 million.  

Maintaining access to merchandise that the Company considers appropriate for its business may be subject to the policies and practices of its key vendors. Therefore, the Company believes that it is critical to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with its key vendors. The Company purchased approximately 82 percent in 2009 and 80 percent in 2008 of its merchandise from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. Approximately 68 percent in 2009 and 64 percent in 2008 was purchased from one vendor — Nike, Inc.  

Planned capital expenditures for 2010 are approximately $103 million, of which $65 million relates to modernizations of existing stores and new store openings, and $38 million reflects the development of information systems and other support facilities. In addition, planned lease acquisition costs related to the Company’s operations in Europe are $7 million. The Company has the ability to revise and reschedule the anticipated capital expenditure program, should the Company’s financial position require it.  

Any material adverse change in customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces or customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, the Company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a significant portion of its merchandise purchases, and risks associated with foreign global sourcing or economic conditions worldwide could affect the ability of the Company to continue to fund its needs from business operations.   

18 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Cash Flow  

Operating activities from continuing operations provided cash of $346 million in 2009 as compared with $383 million in 2008. These amounts reflect income from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes. During 2009, the Company recorded non-cash impairment and other charges of $36 million primarily related to impairment of store-level assets in the domestic operations. Merchandise inventories represented a $111 million source of cash in 2009 as inventory purchases were reduced to keep inventory levels in line with sales as well as reflecting the affect of the store closings. During 2009, the Company contributed $100 million to its U.S. and Canadian qualified pension plans as compared with $6 million contributed in 2008. Additionally, during 2009 the Company terminated its interest rate swaps for a gain of $19 million. The other changes primarily reflect the timing of February 2010 rent payments, which totaled $34 million and were due and paid in 2010 as compared with the February 2009 rent payments that were due and paid in 2008, as well as income tax refunds of $32 million.  

Operating activities from continuing operations provided cash of $383 million in 2008 as compared with $283 million in 2007. During 2008, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges and store closing program costs of $259 million primarily related to its domestic operations. Merchandise inventories represented a $128 million source of cash in 2008 as inventory purchases were reduced to keep inventory levels in line with sales. Additionally, the Company contributed $6 million to its Canadian qualified pension plan in 2008.  

Net cash used by investing activities of the Company’s continuing operations was $72 million in 2009 as compared with $272 million used in investing activities in 2008. During 2009, the Company received $16 million from the Reserve International Liquidity Fund representing further redemptions. Capital expenditures were $89 million primarily related to store remodeling and to the development of information systems and other support facilities, representing a decrease of $57 million as compared with the prior year. The Company made a strategic decision to conserve cash in 2009 and, therefore, reduced capital spending, focusing on projects that improved the customer experience.  

Net cash used by investing activities of the Company’s continuing operations was $272 million in 2008 as compared with $117 million provided by investing activities in 2007. The net cash used by investing activities for 2008 reflects the asset purchase from dELiA*s, Inc. of CCS for $106 million (including capitalized acquisition costs). Investing activities in 2008 also included a $3 million gain related to the sale of two lease interests in Europe. The Company did not purchase or sell short-term investments during 2008. Reflected in investing activities in 2008 is the reclassification of the $23 million investment in the Reserve International Liquidity Fund from cash and cash equivalents to short-term investments. Capital expenditures of $146 million in 2008 and $148 million in 2007 were primarily related to store remodeling and new stores.  

Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations was $94 million in 2009 as compared with $185 million in 2008. During 2009 and 2008, the Company purchased and retired $3 million and $6 million, respectively, of its 8.50 percent debentures. During 2008, the Company reduced its long-term debt by repaying the balance of its term loan of $88 million. Additionally, the Company declared and paid dividends totaling $94 million and $93 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing a quarterly rate of $0.15 per share in both 2009 and 2008. During 2009 and 2008, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $3 million and $2 million, respectively.  

Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations was $185 million in 2008 as compared with $138 million in 2007. The Company declared and paid dividends totaling $93 million in 2008 and $77 million in 2007. During 2008 and 2007, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $2 million and $9 million, respectively.   

19 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Capital Structure  

Credit Agreement  

On March 20, 2009, the Company entered into a new credit agreement (the “2009 Credit Agreement”) with its banks, providing for a $200 million asset-based revolving credit facility maturing on March 20, 2013, which replaced the Company’s prior credit agreement. The 2009 Credit Agreement also provides for an incremental facility of up to $100 million under certain circumstances. The 2009 Credit Agreement provides for a security interest in certain of the Company’s domestic assets, including certain inventory assets. The Company is not required to comply with any financial covenants as long as there are no outstanding borrowings. If the Company is borrowing, then it may not make Restricted Payments, such as dividends or share repurchases, unless there is at least $50 million of Excess Availability (as defined in the 2009 Credit Agreement), and the Company’s projected fixed charge coverage ratio, which is a Non-GAAP financial ratio pursuant to the 2009 Credit Agreement designed as a measure of the Company’s ability to meet current and future obligations (Consolidated EBITDA less capital expenditures less cash taxes divided by Debt Service Charges and Restricted Payments), is at least 1.1 to 1.0. The Company’s management does not currently expect to borrow under the facility in 2010.  

Credit Rating  

As of March 29, 2010, the Company’s corporate credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are B+ and Ba3, respectively. Additionally, as of March 29, 2010, Moody’s Investors Service has rated the Company’s senior unsecured notes B1.  

Debt Capitalization and Equity  

For purposes of calculating debt to total capitalization, the Company includes the present value of operating lease commitments in total net debt. Total net debt including the present value of operating leases is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 4 percent to 15 percent, which represent the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the inclusion of the present value of operating leases in total debt is useful to our investors, credit constituencies, and rating agencies.  

The following table sets forth the components of the Company’s capitalization, both with and without the present value of operating leases:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

20 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company reduced debt by $4 million and increased cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments by $181 million during 2009. Additionally, the present value of the operating leases decreased by $29 million representing the effect of the store closures, offset, in part, by lease renewals and the effect of foreign currency translation. Including the present value of operating leases, the Company’s net debt capitalization percent decreased 370 basis points in 2009. The increase in shareholders’ equity of $24 million in 2009 primarily relates to the following: net income of $48 million, $94 million in dividends paid, $17 million related to stock plans, and an increase of $65 million in the foreign exchange currency translation adjustment, primarily related to the value of the euro in relation to the U.S. dollar. In addition, during 2009 the Company recognized, within accumulated other comprehensive loss, amortization of prior service costs and net actuarial gains and losses, as well as an additional charge representing the change in the funded status of the pension and postretirement plans, which totaled $13 million after-tax.  

Contractual Obligations and Commitments  

The following tables represent the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments at January 30, 2010:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) The amounts presented above represent the contractual maturities of the Company’s long-term debt, excluding interest. Additional information is included in the “Long-Term Debt” note under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”    

  (2) The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Company’s leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance, and other costs. These costs have historically represented approximately 25 to 30 percent of the minimum rent amount. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are unknown.    

  (3) The Company’s other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 30, 2010 primarily comprise pension and postretirement benefits, deferred rent liability, income taxes, workers’ compensation and general liability reserves and various other accruals. The amounts presented in the table are comprised of the Company’s 2010 Canadian qualified plan contributions of $2 million and the liability related to the European net investment hedge of $24 million. The European net investment agreement includes a provision that may require the Company to settle this transaction in August 2010, at the option of the Company or the counterparty. This is the first of a series of annual settlement provisions until August 2015. Other than these liabilities, other amounts (including the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits of $39 million) have been excluded from the above table as the timing and/or amount of any cash payment is uncertain. The timing of the remaining amounts that are known has not been included as they are minimal and not useful to the presentation. Additional information is included in the “Other Liabilities, Financial Instruments and Risk Management,” and “Retirement Plans and Other Benefits” notes under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”    

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (4) Represents the unused domestic lines of credit pursuant to the Company’s $200 million revolving credit agreement. The Company’s management currently does not expect to borrow under the facility in 2010.    

  (5) Represents open purchase orders, as well as other commitments for merchandise purchases, at January 30, 2010. The Company is obligated under the terms of purchase orders; however, the Company is generally able to renegotiate the timing and quantity of these orders with certain vendors in response to shifts in consumer preferences.    

  (6) Represents minimum payments required by non-merchandise purchase agreements.     

21 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company does not have any off-balance sheet financing, other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business as disclosed above, or unconsolidated special purpose entities. The Company does not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities. The Company’s policy prohibits the use of derivatives for which there is no underlying exposure.  

In connection with the sale of various businesses and assets, the Company may be obligated for certain lease commitments transferred to third parties and pursuant to certain normal representations, warranties, or indemnifications entered into with the purchasers of such businesses or assets. Although the maximum potential amounts for such obligations cannot be readily determined, management believes that the resolution of such contingencies will not significantly affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. The Company is also operating certain stores for which lease agreements are in the process of being negotiated with landlords. Although there is no contractual commitment to make these payments, it is likely that leases will be executed.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

Management’s responsibility for integrity and objectivity in the preparation and presentation of the Company’s financial statements requires diligent application of appropriate accounting policies. Generally, the Company’s accounting policies and methods are those specifically required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Included in the “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” is a summary of the Company’s most significant accounting policies. In some cases, management is required to calculate amounts based on estimates for matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company believes the following to be the most critical of those accounting policies that necessitate subjective judgments.  

Merchandise Inventories  

Merchandise inventories for the Company’s Athletic Stores are valued at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method (“RIM”). The RIM is commonly used by retail companies to value inventories at cost and calculate gross margins due to its practicality. Under the retail method, cost is determined by applying a cost-to-retail percentage across groupings of similar items, known as departments. The cost-to-retail percentage is applied to ending inventory at its current owned retail valuation to determine the cost of ending inventory on a department basis. The RIM is a system of averages that requires management’s estimates and assumptions regarding markups, markdowns and shrink, among others, and as such, could result in distortions of inventory amounts.  

Significant judgment is required for these estimates and assumptions, as well as to differentiate between promotional and other markdowns that may be required to correctly reflect merchandise inventories at the lower of cost or market. The Company provides reserves based on current selling prices when the inventory has not been marked down to market. The failure to take permanent markdowns on a timely basis may result in an overstatement of cost under the retail inventory method. The decision to take permanent markdowns includes many factors, including the current environment, inventory levels and the age of the item. Management believes this method and its related assumptions, which have been consistently applied, to be reasonable.  

Vendor Reimbursements  

In the normal course of business, the Company receives allowances from its vendors for markdowns taken. Vendor allowances are recognized as a reduction in cost of sales in the period in which the markdowns are taken. Vendor allowances contributed 30 basis points to the 2009 gross margin rate. The Company also has volume-related agreements with certain vendors, under which it receives rebates based on fixed percentages of cost purchases. These volume-related rebates are recorded in cost of sales when the product is sold and were not significant to the 2009 gross margin rate.   

22 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company receives support from some of its vendors in the form of reimbursements for cooperative advertising and catalog costs for the launch and promotion of certain products. The reimbursements are agreed upon with vendors for specific advertising campaigns and catalogs. Cooperative income, to the extent that it reimburses specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to date, is recorded in SG&A in the same period as the associated expenses are incurred. Reimbursements received that are in excess of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to date are recognized as a reduction to the cost of merchandise and are reflected in cost of sales as the merchandise is sold. Cooperative reimbursements amounted to approximately 27 percent and 11 percent of total advertising and catalog costs, respectively, in 2009.  

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Intangibles  

The Company recognizes an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, a triggering event, comprises measurable operating performance criteria at the division level as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis is necessitated by the occurrence of a triggering event, the Company uses assumptions, which are predominately identified from the Company’s three-year strategic plans, in determining the impairment amount. In the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets, the Company compares the carrying amount of the asset with the estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows, the Company measures the amount of the impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with its estimated fair value. The estimation of fair value is measured by discounting expected future cash flows at the Company’s weighted-average cost of capital. Management believes its policy is reasonable and is consistently applied. Future expected cash flows are based upon estimates that, if not achieved, may result in significantly different results. For the year ended January 30, 2010, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $36 million. A charge of $32 million was recorded to write-down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements, at its Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Footaction and Champs Sports divisions for 787 stores. Additionally, the Company recorded a charge of $4 million to write off certain software development costs for the Direct-to-Customers segment as a result of management’s decision to terminate this project. For the year ended January 31, 2009, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $67 million primarily to write-down long-lived assets, such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements, for the Company’s U.S. store operations.  

The Company performs an impairment review of its goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. We consider many factors in evaluating whether the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, including declines in stock price and market capitalization in relation to the book value of the Company and macroeconomic conditions affecting retail. The Company has chosen to perform this review at the beginning of each fiscal year, and it is done in a two-step approach. The initial step requires that the carrying value of each reporting unit be compared with its estimated fair value. The second step — to evaluate goodwill of a reporting unit for impairment — is only required if the carrying value of that reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. The Company used a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The determination of discounted cash flows of the reporting units and assets and liabilities within the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, earnings before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. The market approach requires judgment and uses one or more methods to compare the reporting unit with similar businesses, business ownership interests or securities that have been sold. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates.  

The Company assigned discount rates ranging from 12 to 14 percent for the four reporting units. The Company evaluated the merits of each significant assumption, both individually and in the aggregate, used to determine the fair value of the reporting units, as well as the fair values of the corresponding assets and liabilities within the reporting units, and concluded they are reasonable and are consistent with prior valuations.   

23 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Owned trademarks and tradenames that have been determined to have indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but are reviewed at least annually for potential impairment. The fair values of purchased intangible assets are estimated and compared to their carrying values. We estimate the fair value of these intangible assets based on an income approach using the relief-from-royalty method. This methodology assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of these types of assets. This approach is dependent on a number of factors, including estimates of future growth and trends, royalty rates in the category of intellectual property, discount rates and other variables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value.  

The Company’s review of goodwill and other intangible assets did not result in any impairment charges for the year ended January 30, 2010 as the fair value of each of the reporting units substantially exceeds its carrying value. The Company recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $169 million for the year ended January 31, 2009.  

Share-Based Compensation  

The Company estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Company estimates the expected term of options granted using its historical exercise and post-vesting employment termination patterns, which the Company believes are representative of future behavior. Changing the expected term by one year changes the fair value by 3 to 6 percent depending if the change was an increase or decrease to the expected term. The Company estimates the expected volatility of its common stock at the grant date using a weighted-average of the Company’s historical volatility and implied volatility from traded options on the Company’s common stock. A 50 basis point change in volatility would have a 1 percent change to the fair value. The risk-free interest rate assumption is determined using the Federal Reserve nominal rates for U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds with maturities similar to those of the expected term of the award being valued.  

The expected dividend yield is derived from the Company’s historical experience. A 50 basis point change to the dividend yield would change the fair value by approximately 4 percent. The Company records stock-based compensation expense only for those awards expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate based on its historical pre-vesting forfeiture data, which it believes are representative of future behavior, and periodically will revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.  

The Black-Scholes option pricing valuation model requires the use of subjective assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value of the options. The Company may elect to use different assumptions under the Black-Scholes option pricing model in the future if there is a difference between the assumptions used in determining stock-based compensation cost and the actual factors that become known over time.  

Pension and Postretirement Liabilities  

The Company determines its obligations for pension and postretirement liabilities based upon assumptions related to discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on invested plan assets, salary increases, age, and mortality, among others. Management reviews all assumptions annually with its independent actuaries, taking into consideration existing and future economic conditions and the Company’s intentions with regard to the plans. Management believes its estimates for 2009, as disclosed in the “Retirement Plans and Other Benefits” note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” to be reasonable.  

Long-Term Rate of Return Assumption - The expected long-term rate of return on invested pension plan assets is a component of pension expense. The rate is based on the plans’ weighted-average target asset allocation, as well as historical and future expected performance of those assets. The target asset allocation is selected to obtain an investment return that is sufficient to cover the expected benefit payments and to reduce future contributions by the Company. The Company’s common stock represented approximately one percent of the total pension plans’ assets at January 30, 2010.   

24 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The weighted-average long-term rate of return used to determine 2009 pension expense was 7.63 percent. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return would have increased 2009 pension expense by approximately $3 million. The actual return on plan assets in a given year typically differs from the expected long-term rate of return, and the resulting gain or loss is deferred and amortized into the plans’ expense over time.  

Discount Rate - An assumed discount rate is used to measure the present value of future cash flow obligations of the plans and the interest cost component of pension expense and postretirement income. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Company’s U.S. benefit obligations at January 30, 2010 was derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company matches the plans’ projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the Citibank Pension Discount Curve. The cash flows are then discounted to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Company’s Canadian benefit obligations at January 30, 2010 was developed by using the plan’s bond portfolio indices, which match the benefit obligations.  

The weighted-average discount rates used to determine the 2009 benefit obligations related to the Company’s pension and postretirement plans were 5.25 percent and 4.90 percent, respectively. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average discount rate would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation of the pension plans at January 30, 2010 by approximately $26 million, while the effect on the postretirement plan would not have been significant. Such a decrease would not have significantly changed 2009 pension expense or postretirement income.  

There is limited risk to the Company for increases in health care costs related to the postretirement plan as, beginning in 2001, new retirees have assumed the full expected costs and then-existing retirees have assumed all increases in such costs.  

The Company expects to record postretirement income of approximately $6 million and pension expense of approximately $23 million in 2010.  

Income Taxes  

In accordance with GAAP, deferred tax assets are recognized for tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards, reduced by a valuation allowance, which is established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management is required to estimate taxable income for future years by taxing jurisdiction and to use its judgment to determine whether or not to record a valuation allowance for part or all of a deferred tax asset. Estimates of taxable income are based upon the Company’s three-year strategic plans. A one percent change in the Company’s overall statutory tax rate for 2009 would have resulted in a $10 million change in the carrying value of the net deferred tax asset and a corresponding charge or credit to income tax expense depending on whether such tax rate change was a decrease or an increase.  

The Company has operations in multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. Tax audits by their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve. Accruals of tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgments with respect to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual results could vary from these estimates.  

The Company expects its 2010 effective tax rate to range from 36 to 37 percent. The actual rate will primarily depend upon the percentage of the Company’s income earned in the United States as compared with international operations.   

25 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

In July of 2009, the Company adopted the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“Codification”), which establishes the Codification as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. The historical GAAP hierarchy was eliminated and the Codification became the only level of authoritative GAAP, other than guidance issued by the SEC. The FASB will not issue new standards in the form of Statements, FASB Staff Positions or Emerging Issues Task Force Abstracts. Instead, it will issue Accounting Standards Updates (“ASUs”). ASUs will serve to update the Codification, provide background information about the guidance and provide the basis for conclusions on changes in the Codification. The Codification was effective for all financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. Accordingly, the Company has reflected all necessary changes in this filing.  

Recently issued accounting pronouncements did not, or are not believed by management to, have a material effect on the Company’s present or future consolidated financial statements.  

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, which address activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, such things as future capital expenditures, expansion, strategic plans, financial objectives, dividend payments, stock repurchases, growth of the Company’s business and operations, including future cash flows, revenues and earnings, and other such matters are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors detailed in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the effects of currency fluctuations, customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, the Company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor), pandemics and similar major health concerns, unseasonable weather, further deterioration of global financial markets, economic conditions worldwide, further deterioration of business and economic conditions, any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to the threat of future terrorist activities in the United States or in other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas, the ability of the Company to execute effectively its strategic plan and its business plans with regard to each of its business units, and risks associated with foreign global sourcing, including political instability, changes in import regulations, and disruptions to transportation services and distribution.  

Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  

  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk