Part I

Item 1 - Business

General Information

Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe’s) is a Fortune® 100 company and the world’s second largest home improvement retailer. As of January 31, 2014, Lowe's operated 1,832 home improvement and hardware stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico representing approximately 200 million square feet of retail selling space. 

Our home improvement stores were comprised of 1,717 stores located across 50 U.S. states, 35 stores in Canada and eight stores in Mexico. In addition, in August 2013, the Company acquired the majority of the assets of Orchard Supply Hardware (Orchard), a neighborhood hardware and backyard store focused on paint, repair and the backyard (Orchard stores), primarily located in densely populated markets in California. Orchard stores average approximately 36,000 square feet of retail selling space, and generally serve similar customers as the Lowe's home improvement store. As of the acquisition date, Orchard represented less than 2% of the Company's consolidated net sales. As of January 31, 2014, the Company operated 72 Orchard stores located in the U.S.

Lowe’s was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since 1961. The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol “LOW”.

See Item 6, “Selected Financial Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for historical revenues, profits and identifiable assets. For additional information about the Company’s performance and financial condition, see also Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our Promise

We strive to be customers’ first choice for home improvement. Customers expect that we will not only sell the products they need and want, but also deliver a full solution. Our goal is to make the process of home improvement as seamless and simple as possible, while ensuring we remain relevant to our customers. We have several initiatives designed to deliver seamless and simple experiences, which include evolving our sales culture across all selling channels, upgrading and continuously enhancing our information technology infrastructure, and allowing access to customers’ project and product status at all relevant touch points.

Customers, Market and Competition

Our Customers

We serve homeowners, renters and professional customers (Pro customer). Individual homeowners and renters, which represent our retail customers, complete a wide array of projects and vary along the spectrum of do-it-yourself (DIY) and do-it-for-me (DIFM). The Pro customer consists of two broad categories: construction trades; and maintenance, repair & operations.

Our Market

We are among the many businesses, including home centers, paint stores, hardware stores, lumber yards and garden centers, whose revenues are included in the Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers Subsector (444) of the Retail Trade Sector of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), the standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy. The total annual revenue reported for businesses included in NAICS 444 in 2013 was $312 billion, which represented an increase of 6.0% from the total amount reported in 2012. The total annual revenue reported for businesses included in NAICS 444 in 2012 was $294 billion, which represented an increase of 5.4% over the amount reported for 2011.

NAICS 444 represents less than half of what we consider the total market for our products and services. The broader market in which Lowe’s operates includes home-related sales through a variety of companies beyond those in NAICS 444. These consist of other companies in the retail sector, including mass retailers, home furnishings stores, and online retailers, as well as wholesalers that provide home-related products and services to homeowners, businesses, and the government. Based on our analysis of the most recent comprehensive data available, we estimate the size of the U.S. home improvement market at $637 billion in 2013, comprised of $481 billion of product sales and $156 billion of installed labor sales.

4
There are many variables that affect consumer demand for the home improvement products and services Lowe’s offers. Key indicators we monitor include real disposable personal income, employment, home prices, and housing turnover. We also monitor demographic and societal trends that shape home improvement industry growth. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Recent evidence suggests that home prices will continue to increase. In 2013, home price appreciation improved to an estimated 4.0%, according to the Federal Home Finance Agency index, up from flat growth in 2012. The gains were driven by increasing demand and lower inventories of homes for sale. Economists generally expect home price growth to moderate in 2014 but remain positive.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

These indicators are important to our business because they impact income available to purchase our products and services, or signal a customer's willingness to engage in home maintenance, repair, and upgrade projects. Currently, these indicators suggest moderately improving consumer demand for the home improvement products and services we sell. However, in the persisting uncertain economic environment, we continue to balance implementation of our long-term growth plans with our near-term focus on improving performance and maintaining adequate liquidity.

Our Competition

The home improvement retailing business includes many competitors. We compete with other home improvement warehouse chains and lumberyards in most of our trade areas. We also compete with traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply retailers. In addition, we compete with general merchandise retailers, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, online and other specialty retailers. Our customers value reputation, customer experience, quality and price of merchandise, and range and availability of products and services. Location of stores also continues to be a key competitive factor in our industry. However, the increasing use of technology and the simplicity of online shopping also underscore the importance of multi-channel presence as a competitive factor. See further discussion of competition in Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Products and Services

Our Products

Product Selection

To meet customers’ varying home improvement needs, we offer a complete line of products for maintenance, repair, remodeling, and decorating. We offer home improvement products in the following categories: Kitchens & Appliances; Lumber & Building Materials; Tools & Hardware; Fashion Fixtures; Rough Plumbing & Electrical; Lawn & Garden; Seasonal Living; Paint; Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning; Flooring; Millwork; and Outdoor Power Equipment. A typical Lowe's home improvement store stocks approximately 36,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available through our Special Order Sales system, Lowes.com, Lowes.ca and ATGstores.com. See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years.

*Blue Chip Economic Indicators® (ISSN: 0193-4600) is published monthly by Aspen Publishers, 76 Ninth Avenue, New York, NY 10011, a division of Wolters Kluwer Law and Business. Printed in the U.S.A.

5
We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise complemented by our selection of private brands. In addition, we are dedicated to ensuring product is sourced in a responsible, efficient, and cost effective manner through our supply chain.

National Brand-Name Merchandise

In many product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill confidence in their purchase. Each Lowe’s home improvement store carries a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise such as Whirlpool® appliances and water heaters, GE®, LG® and Samsung® appliances, Stainmaster® carpets, Valspar® paints and stains, Pella® windows and doors, Sylvania® light bulbs, Dewalt® power tools, Owens Corning® roofing, Johns Manville® insulation, James Hardie® fiber cement siding, Husqvarna® outdoor power equipment, Werner® ladders and many more. Our merchandise selection provides the retail and Pro customer a one-stop shop for a wide variety of national brand name merchandise needed to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance or construction projects.

Private Brands

Private brands are an important element of our overall portfolio, helping to differentiate the Lowe's shopping experience from the competition. We sell private brands throughout our stores including Tools & Hardware, Seasonal Living, Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning, Paint, Fashion Fixtures, Flooring, Millwork, Rough Plumbing & Electrical, and Lumber & Building Materials. Some of Lowe’s most important private brands include Kobalt® tools, allen+roth® home décor products, Blue Hawk® home improvement products, Project Source® basic value products, Portfolio® lighting products, Garden Treasures® lawn and patio products, Utilitech® electrical and utility products, Reliabilt® doors and windows, Aquasource® faucets, sinks and toilets, Harbor Breeze® ceiling fans, Top Choice® lumber products and Iris® home automation and management products.

Supply Chain

We source our products from over 7,000 vendors worldwide with no single vendor accounting for more than 6% of total purchases. We believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products. Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for customers and improve our gross margin.

To efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate 15 highly-automated Regional Distribution Centers (RDC) in the United States. Through our RDCs, products are received from vendors, stored and picked or cross-docked, and then shipped to our retail locations. On average, each domestic RDC serves approximately 115 stores. We also lease and operate a distribution facility to serve our Canadian stores.

We also operate 15 flatbed distribution centers to distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, pipe, siding, ladders and building materials. Additionally, we operate five facilities to support our import and e-commerce businesses and flexible fulfillment capabilities. Flexible fulfillment allows the customer to order parcel post eligible products that are stocked in an RDC, a store, or in a vendor's distribution center, and have them shipped directly to a home or place of business. Most items can be ordered and delivered within two business days at standard shipping rates. We also utilize three third-party transload facilities, which are the first point of receipt for imported products. The transload facilities sort and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and forecasts. In addition, we use warehouse space for other operations.

On average, in fiscal 2013, approximately 75% of the total dollar amount of stock merchandise we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to our stores from vendors.

Our Services

Installed Sales

We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with Flooring, Millwork and Kitchens & Appliances accounting for the majority of installed sales. Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products are efficiently executed. Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 7% of total sales in fiscal 2013.

ProServices

Lowe’s ProServices is focused on supporting the Pro customer by providing them with the products and services they need to support their business and making it easier for them to shop at Lowe's. ProServices includes a team of employees who are dedicated to supporting the Pro customer-both in the store and at their place of business. In our stores, we have dedicated specialists assigned to answer questions and dedicated loaders to help them get back to their job site quickly. Our Account 

6
Executives ProServices develop and manage overall relationships with large regional businesses, home offices, branches of national customers and existing business accounts, and our National Account representatives assist customers doing business with Lowe’s across the country.

To provide value for Pro customers, we offer five key ways to save: our 5% off purchases every day when they use Lowe's proprietary credit; our Lowe's Business Replenishment Program; contractor packs, which provide lower unit pricing for larger quantity purchases; Quote Support Program (QSP), which provides volume pricing on purchases over certain dollar limits; and reduced delivery rates to the job site. Through our Business Replenishment Program, we can keep the Pro customer stocked with the supplies they need, and replenish their stock when and where they need it, no matter where they work. The Pro customer can save time by ordering their supplies online, over the phone, or by fax, and we will have the order ready for in-store pick-up or we can provide delivery directly to their job site or office. In addition, we provide job lot quantities in categories such as Lumber & Building Materials, Tools & Hardware, Rough Plumbing & Electrical, Paint, and Outdoor Power Equipment, that are critical to the success of their business. 

Extended Protection Plans and Repair Services

We offer extended protection plans in Kitchens & Appliances, Tools & Hardware, and Outdoor Power Equipment. Lowe’s extended protection plans provide customers with product protection that enhances or extends the manufacturer’s warranty. We provide in-warranty and out-of-warranty repair services for major appliances, outdoor power equipment and tools through our stores or in the home through our Lowe’s Authorized Service Repair Network. Our contact center takes the calls, assesses the problems, and facilitates the resolutions making after-sales service simpler for customers because we manage the entire process.

Credit Financing

We offer a proprietary consumer credit card for retail customers under an agreement with GE Capital Retail Bank. This program provides Lowe's consumer credit cardholders with 5% off their purchases every day. For purchases above $299, customers have their choice of short-term no-interest financing or the 5% off value. For purchases above $3,500, customers have their choice of the following: 5.99% interest for 84 months; short-term no-interest financing; or the 5% off value.

We also offer proprietary credit programs for Pro customers. They include a Lowe’s Business Account, which is ideal for small to medium size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe’s Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium to large size businesses that pay in full each month. These programs provide a 5% discount to Pro customers when they use their Lowe’s business credit account. We also offer the Lowe’s Business Rewards Card from American Express®, which also offers 5% off everyday purchases.

For additional information regarding our credit programs, see the summary of our significant accounting policies in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

MyLowes® 

MyLowes is an online tool that makes managing, maintaining and improving homes simpler and more intuitive. Using the capabilities provided by MyLowes, customers can create home profiles, save room dimensions and paint colors, organize owners' manuals and product warranties, create shopping, to-do and wish lists for projects on the horizon, set recurring reminders for common maintenance items and store purchase history from across all Lowe's channels.

Selling Channels

We have multiple channels through which we engage customers and sell our products and services, including in-store, online, on-site and contact centers. Although we sell through all of these channels, our primary channel to fulfill customer orders continues to be our retail home improvement stores. Regardless of the channel through which customers choose to engage with us, we strive to provide them with a seamless experience and an endless aisle of products, enabled by our flexible fulfillment capabilities.

In-Store

Our 1,760 home improvement stores are generally open seven days per week and average approximately 112,000 square feet of retail selling space, plus approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling space. Our stores offer similar products and services, with certain variations based on local market factors. We continue to develop and implement tools to make our sales associates more efficient and to integrate our order management and fulfillment processes. Our home improvement stores have Wi-Fi capabilities that provide customers with internet access, making information available quickly 

7
to further simplify the shopping experience. In addition, we also operate 72 Orchard stores that serve similar customers as the Lowe’s home improvement store, but in more densely populated markets.

Online

Through Lowes.com, Lowes.ca, ATGstores.com and mobile applications, we seek to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience and help reduce the complexity of product decisions and home improvement projects by providing online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online buying guides and how-to videos and information. These tools help consumers make more informed purchasing decisions and give them confidence as they undertake home improvement projects. Providing mobile technology and applications to customers and to our associates is an important step towards seamless and simple experiences, and allows us to participate in the evolution to mobile technology. In 2013, sales through our online selling channels, which include Lowes.com, Lowes.ca and ATGstores.com, accounted for approximately 2% of our total sales. We also enable customers to choose from a variety of fulfillment options, including buying online and picking up in-store as well as parcel shipment to their homes.

On-Site

We have on-site specialists available to retail and Pro customers to assist them in selecting products and services for their projects. Account Executives ProServices meet with Pro customers at their place of business or on a job site and leverage stores within the area to ensure we meet customer needs for products and resources. Our Project Specialist Exteriors (PSE) program is available in all Lowe’s stores to discuss exterior projects such as roofing, siding, fencing, and windows, whose characteristics lend themselves to an in-home consultative sales approach. In addition, our Project Specialist Interiors (PSI) program is available in certain locations to provide similar consultative services on interior projects such as kitchens and bathrooms. 

Contact Centers

Lowe’s has two primary contact centers which are located in Wilkesboro, NC, and Albuquerque, NM. These contact centers provide direct support to Lowe's customers by tendering sales, coordinating purchase deliveries, facilitating repair services, and answering general customer questions via phone, e-mail, social media, or letters.

Employees

As of January 31, 2014, we employed approximately 167,000 full-time and 95,000 part-time employees. No employees in the U.S. or Canada are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Certain employees in Mexico are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with employees to be good.

Seasonality and Working Capital

The retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business is, to some extent, seasonal. Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our second fiscal quarter (May, June and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fourth fiscal quarter (November, December and January). Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fourth fiscal quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fourth fiscal quarter sales volumes. We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, as needed. For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Intellectual Property

The name “Lowe’s” is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary has various additional trademarks, trade names and service marks, many of which are used in our private brand program. The subsidiary also maintains various Internet domain names that are important to our business. We also own registered and unregistered copyrights, and maintain patent portfolios related to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect certain innovations that we incorporate into our products, services, or business operations.

Environmental Stewardship 

Lowe’s recognizes how efficient operations can help protect the environment and our bottom line. We examine our operations regularly to deliver efficiencies in energy and water use, fuel consumption, and waste and recycling. We also invest in technology that will help us operate our facilities more efficiently and environmentally responsibly. For example, at our 

8
recently opened RDC in Rome, Ga., the distribution center was designed to use high-efficiency, light-emitting diode (LED) fixtures for outdoor security lighting. 

We strive to deliver products to our stores in a fuel-efficient and an environmentally responsible manner through participation in the SmartWay® Transport Partnership, an innovative program launched by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in 2004 that promotes cleaner, more fuel-efficient transportation options. Lowe’s received a 2013 SmartWay Excellence Award from the EPA, our fifth consecutive SmartWay honor, for initiatives that resulted in reduced emissions, greater fuel efficiency and less overall highway congestion. We have also increased shipping of products by rail and increased the efficiency of truckload shipments from and to our RDCs. 

We continue to take steps to improve our recycling programs and reduce the amount of waste we generate. Through these efforts, we are able to reduce our disposal costs and minimize the impact on the environment of the operation of our stores and other facilities. We also offer convenient recycling for our customers at many of our stores for items such as rechargeable batteries and compact fluorescent light bulbs.

Additionally, we continue to focus on helping consumers reduce their energy and water use and their environmental footprint while saving money when they purchase our products and services. We offer a wide selection of environmentally responsible and energy-efficient products for the home, including ENERGY STAR® appliances, WaterSense® labeled toilets, paint with no volatile organic compounds (VOC), and indoor and outdoor LED lighting. Through our in-home sales specialists, we offer customers installation of insulation and energy efficient windows.

The EPA honored our long standing-leadership as a retailer of energy-efficient products by awarding Lowe's our fourth consecutive ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award (2010-2013). Lowe’s has received 11 consecutive ENERGY STAR awards (2003-2013), including four ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year awards for educating consumers about the benefits of energy efficiency. In 2013, the EPA WaterSense program also honored Lowe’s long-standing efforts with its first-ever Sustained Excellence Award. The honor represents our fifth consecutive award for employee training, consumer education and national efforts to promote water conservation.

We annually track our carbon footprint and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent nonprofit organization hosting the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. To further reduce our footprint, we incorporate energy-efficient technologies and architectural systems into new stores and retrofits of existing stores, such as energy-efficient lighting, white membrane cool roofs and HVAC units that meet or exceed ENERGY STAR qualifications. We also participate in demand response programs where we voluntarily reduce our lighting and HVAC loads during peak demand periods to support electric grid reliability. 

For more information on Lowe’s environmental leadership efforts, please visit Lowes.com/SocialResponsibility.

Compliance with Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business in a variety of ways, including indirectly through increased energy costs, as utilities, refineries, and other major emitters of greenhouse gases are subjected to additional regulation or legislation that seeks to better control greenhouse gas emissions. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2014 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with such laws or regulations.

Reaching Out / Our Community

Lowe’s has a long and proud history of supporting local communities through public education and community improvement projects, beginning with the creation of the Lowe’s Charitable and Educational Foundation in 1957. In 2013, Lowe’s and the Lowe’s Charitable and Educational Foundation contributed nearly $25 million to schools and community organizations in the United States, Canada and Mexico. 

Our commitment to improving educational opportunities is best exemplified by our signature education grant program, Lowe’s Toolbox for Education®. The program has benefited more than five million schoolchildren since 2006, funding improvements at 940 schools in 49 states in 2013. 

For more than a decade, we’ve been working with national nonprofit partners to strengthen and stabilize neighborhoods in the communities we serve. In 2013, Lowe’s contributed more than $6 million and teamed with Habitat for Humanity and 

9
Rebuilding Together to bring housing solutions and hope to families across the country. We also continued to build on our longstanding partnerships with SkillsUSA, the Boys & Girls Clubs of America and The Nature Conservancy to improve communities and build tomorrow’s leaders.  

Lowe’s is also committed to helping residents of the communities we serve by being there when we’re needed most - when a natural disaster threatens and in the recovery that follows. In 2013, Lowe’s committed more than $2 million and mobilized hundreds of Lowe’s Heroes (employee volunteers) to help families recover and rebuild in Colorado, Oklahoma, Illinois and other states impacted by disasters. We also surpassed $25 million in donations to the American Red Cross since our partnership began, becoming one of just a few partners to reach that milestone. 

For more information on Lowe’s partnerships and latest community improvement projects, visit Lowes.com/SocialResponsibility and LowesInTheCommunity.tumblr.com.

Available Information

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our internet website at www.Lowes.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may also read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Item 1A - Risk Factors