Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting our consolidated operating results, financial condition, liquidity and capital resources during the three-year period ended January 31, 2014 (our fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011). Fiscal year 2011 contains 53 weeks of operating results compared to fiscal years 2013 and 2012 which contain 52 weeks. Unless otherwise noted, all references herein for the years 2013, 2012 and 2011 represent the fiscal years ended January 31, 2014, February 1, 2013 and February 3, 2012, respectively. We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles affect our financial statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. This discussion and analysis is presented in seven sections:

•Executive Overview

•Operations

•Lowe’s Business Outlook

•Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

•Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments

•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

Net earnings increased 16.7% to $2.3 billion during fiscal year 2013, and diluted earnings per share increased 26.6% to $2.14. Net sales for 2013 were $53.4 billion, a 5.7% increase over fiscal year 2012. Comparable sales were 4.8%, driven by comparable average ticket increase of 3.2% and a comparable transaction increase of 1.6%. 

For 2013, cash flows from operating activities were approximately $4.1 billion, with $940 million used for capital expenditures. Our strong financial position and positive cash flows allowed us to deliver on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders. During 2013, the company repurchased 86.7 million shares of stock for $3.7 billion and paid $733 million in dividends.

2013 Progress

As of the end of fiscal year 2013, we have substantially completed our initiatives to enhance retail relevance, including Value Improvement, Product Differentiation, and our Store Labor investment. Value Improvement has enhanced our line designs, making them more relevant to each of the markets we serve, and enabled us to maintain better in-stock positions, as well as to simplify deal structures that allow us to offer competitive prices every day. As of the end of fiscal year 2013, we have finished the first round of Value Improvement line reviews and substantially all of the associated resets. Value Improvement is now fully operationalized, which means the improved line review and product reset processes are woven into our everyday business, and we are now better positioned to meet customers’ product needs and drive better inventory productivity. 

Product Differentiation has driven excitement in our stores through better display techniques, including our revised end cap strategy, which has allowed us to focus on highly innovative products and significant values and to showcase private and national brands. We also revamped promotional spaces to better promote seasonally relevant, high value items to drive sales and improve the shopping experience. Product Differentiation has been executed in 1,400 stores as of the end of fiscal year 2013 and will be rolled out to the remaining U.S. home improvement stores in the first half of 2014. In addition, as part of our Sales & Operations Planning process, we will continue to look for ways to manage this space in its most productive way.

During 2013, we had also identified an opportunity to better serve customers and close more sales during peak weekday hours by increasing the assistance available in the aisles. In the second half of 2013, we have focused on making the store labor investment more productive by refining our allocation of these hours, by store and by selling department. As we cycle the introduction of the store labor investment in the first quarter of 2014, we expect to obtain greater leverage which will contribute to greater 2014 operating profitability.

2014 Priorities

During 2014, economic forecasts suggest moderately accelerating growth in the home improvement industry. Stronger job and income growth should create a more favorable environment for consumer spending which, coupled with the lagged benefit of 

18
the housing recovery, should generate continued growth in the home improvement industry. While credit conditions remain tight relative to the housing boom years, conditions are improving and household finances continue to strengthen, which should also contribute to stronger growth in 2014. 

In 2014, we will build on the momentum established in 2013 as we further optimize our business model. We will also continue to focus on three priorities to drive further top-line growth. First, we will use our enhanced Sales & Operations Planning process to improve seasonal planning by market. Second, we will improve our product and service offering for the Pro customer. Third, we will continue building customer experience design capabilities. 

Through our Sales & Operations Planning process, we have addressed an opportunity to improve seasonal planning, including the cadence of product introductions, promotions and staffing. While we have always planned and executed these seasons in store, previous planning was completed function-by-function and reconciled to minimize conflicts. Now the process starts earlier and is anchored on the customer mindset for the season. The process more thoroughly considers detailed input from all functions to determine resource allocation, and it enables Lowe’s to provide a consistent message and experience across all selling channels.

We also have an opportunity to better capitalize on the Pro market, which is growing faster than the consumer market. We will do this by enhancing our product and service offering with this important customer, including ensuring we have the types of products and brands Pros demand. We also want to ensure we reach our Pro through multiple channels, whether in the store where we have dedicated specialists assigned to answer questions and dedicated loaders to help them get back to the job quickly, at the Pro’s place of business where our Account Executive ProServices helps regional Maintenance, Repair, and Operations customers order and replenish products across multiple stores, or through our National Account representatives who assist customers doing business with Lowe’s across the country. In the second quarter of 2014, we will re-launch lowesforpros.com which will provide a dedicated platform for Pro customers to purchase online from Lowe’s. This site will also allow Pros to access contract pricing, develop requisition lists and view purchase history and will be enabled for convenient mobile access.

In addition, we have an opportunity to more broadly enhance the customer experience. We are developing a process to coordinate the elements of great occasion-based customer experiences that provide relevant solutions that we will present in an inspiring manner with all selling channels in mind. These experiences must meet three critical criteria: they must be desirable to our target customer; they must be feasible; and they must be viable - something we can deliver in a profitable and sustainable way. In 2014, we will continue building these customer experience design capabilities. We will also introduce a limited number of changes to our stores and website that will become a stage for future experiences. 

Our top-line performance improved in 2013 as a result of our focus on cross functional collaboration and consistent execution, along with our strategic initiatives, which allowed us to more fully capitalize on market demand. In 2014, we are focused on improving our profitability, even while investing in key capabilities to drive sales growth. In addition to operationalizing and refining the 2013 initiatives, we will focus on driving more of our revenue growth to the bottom line through expense control and disciplined execution of our plans. 

Beyond 2014

Over the longer-term, we remain committed to satisfying customers’ needs whenever and wherever they choose to engage with us and to differentiating with better customer experiences than any other home improvement provider. We have been investing in infrastructure, both systems and processes. Our focus is on transforming our current multi-channel offering to an omni-channel experience with our brand. Through enhanced customer service tools, we expect to improve our associates’ ability to sell seamlessly across channels, to introduce new project management tools, and to expand fulfillment capabilities beyond buy online pick-up in store, or parcel fulfillment of online orders, both of which we do today. We will cultivate personal and simple connections with customers, over and above what we have accomplished to date with MyLowes. These new capabilities are projected to be in market in 2015.

Even as we focus on optimizing our business model, driving profitability, and capitalizing on market opportunities within an improving economy, we are investing in customer experience and omni-channel capabilities to drive future sales growth and to create simpler and differentiated home improvement experiences for customers.

19
OPERATIONS

The following tables set forth the percentage relationship to net sales of each line item of the consolidated statements of earnings, as well as the percentage change in dollar amounts from the prior year. This table should be read in conjunction with the following discussion and analysis and the consolidated financial statements, including the related notes to the consolidated financial statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

20
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Fiscal years 2013 and 2012 had 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2011 had 53 weeks. 

2 EBIT margin, also referred to as operating margin, is defined as earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales.

3 A comparable location is defined as a location that has been open longer than 13 months. A location that is identified for

 relocation is no longer considered comparable one month prior to its relocation. The relocated location must then remain

 open longer than 13 months to be considered comparable. A location we have decided to close is no longer considered

 comparable as of the beginning of the month in which we announce its closing. Comparable sales include online sales.

4 Comparable sales are based on comparable 52-week periods for 2013 and 2012 and comparable 53-week periods for 2011.

5 Average ticket is defined as net sales divided by the total number of customer transactions.

6 The number of stores as of fiscal year end 2013 includes 72 stores from the acquisition of the majority of assets of Orchard on August 30, 2013. The average store selling square footage is approximately 36,000 for an Orchard store.

7 Average store size selling square feet is defined as sales floor square feet divided by the number of stores open at the end of

 the period. The average Lowe’s home improvement store has approximately 112,000 square feet of retail selling space, while

 the average Orchard store has approximately 36,000 square feet of retail selling space.

8 Return on average assets is defined as net earnings divided by average total assets for the last five quarters.

9 Return on average shareholders’ equity is defined as net earnings divided by average shareholders’ equity for the last five

 quarters.

10 Return on invested capital is a non-GAAP financial measure. See below for additional information.

Return on Invested Capital

Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe ROIC is a meaningful metric for investors because it measures how effectively the Company uses capital to generate profits.

We define ROIC as trailing four quarters’ net operating profit after tax divided by the average of ending debt and equity for the last five quarters. Although ROIC is a common financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating ROIC. Accordingly, the method used by our management to calculate ROIC may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their ROIC. We encourage you to understand the methods used by another company to calculate its ROIC before comparing its ROIC to ours.

We consider return on average debt and equity to be the financial measure computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to ROIC. The difference between these two measures is that ROIC adjusts net earnings to exclude tax adjusted interest expense.

The calculation of ROIC, together with a reconciliation to the calculation of return on average debt and equity, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:

21
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Income tax adjustment is defined as earnings before interest and taxes multiplied by the effective tax rate.

2 Average debt and equity is defined as average debt, including current maturities and short-term borrowings, plus total equity

 for the last five quarters.

Fiscal 2013 Compared to Fiscal 2012 

Net sales – Net sales increased 5.7% to $53.4 billion in 2013. Comparable sales increased 4.8% in 2013, driven by a 3.2% increase in comparable average ticket and a 1.6% increase in comparable customer transactions. Performance for the year was strong across product categories as all of our product categories experienced comparable sales increases for the year. During 2013, we experienced comparable sales above the company average in the following product categories: Outdoor Power Equipment, Kitchens & Appliances, Rough Plumbing & Electrical, Flooring, and Fashion Fixtures. Sales to Pro customers also performed well during the year and experienced comparable sales above the company average.

Sales during the year benefited from growth in the home improvement industry where gains in housing turnover and job growth created increased demand. Through our Sales & Operations Planning process, we were able to better capitalize on market demand and drive sales in big ticket categories such as Outdoor Power Equipment, Kitchens & Appliances, and Flooring, which all performed above the company average. Furthermore, we were able to make improvements in our seasonal planning and the timing of product introductions and promotions, which also helped drive sales in these categories. 

We continued to realize benefits from our strategic initiatives, with many product categories benefiting from improved line designs and deeper inventory in key items after having completed their Value Improvement resets. In addition, we also saw benefit from our proprietary credit value proposition, which offers customers the choice of 5% off every day or promotional financing. 

Gross margin – Gross margin of 34.59% for 2013 represented a 29 basis point increase from 2012. Gross margin was positively impacted by 45 basis points resulting from our Value Improvement initiative. This was partially offset by a negative impact of 15 basis points as a result of higher penetration of our proprietary credit value proposition, which increased 145 basis points over the prior year and was approximately 25.5% of sales.

22
SG&A – SG&A expense for 2013 leveraged 16 basis points as a percentage of sales compared to 2012. This was driven by 17 basis points of leverage associated with casualty insurance as we cycled a reduction in the discount rate applied in the prior year. We also experienced nine basis points of leverage due to greater long-lived asset impairments and discontinued project expenses in the prior year and eight basis points of leverage in advertising expense due to higher sales. In addition, we experienced eight basis points of leverage in contract labor expense as a result of lower spending on information technology projects in the current year. These were partially offset by 14 basis points of deleverage associated with incentive compensation due to higher attainment levels and eight basis points of deleverage as a result of reset and remerchandising activity associated with efforts to improve customer experiences. We also experienced eight basis points of deleverage due to higher store repair and maintenance expense.

Depreciation – Depreciation expense leveraged 27 basis points for 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to the increase in sales as well as assets becoming fully depreciated. Property, less accumulated depreciation, decreased to $20.8 billion at January 31, 2014 compared to $21.5 billion at February 1, 2013. At January 31, 2014 and February 1, 2013, we owned 86% and 89% of our stores, respectively, which included stores on leased land.

Interest – Net – Net interest expense is comprised of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net interest expense increased primarily as a result of a favorable tax settlement that resulted in a reduced interest accrual in 2012, in addition to increased expense as a result of the net increase in long-term debt.

Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011 

For the purpose of the following discussion, comparable sales, comparable average ticket and comparable customer transactions are based on comparable 52-week periods.

Net sales – Net sales increased 0.6% to $50.5 billion in 2012. The additional week in 2011 and resulting week shift in 2012 negatively impacted sales comparisons by $692 million, or 1.4%. Comparable sales increased 1.4% in 2012, driven by a 0.9% increase in comparable average ticket and a 0.5% increase in comparable customer transactions. Our key initiatives, Value Improvement and Product Differentiation, drove 40 basis points of the increase in sales. In addition, our proprietary credit value proposition contributed 65 basis points to the increase in sales. Geographically, all operating divisions in the U.S. delivered positive comparable sales for the year as sales performance was well balanced in 2012. Furthermore, we continued to see strength in our Pro Services business, which outperformed the company average.

We experienced comparable sales above the company average in the following product categories during 2012: Outdoor Power Equipment, Paint, Seasonal Living, Tools & Hardware, Rough Plumbing & Electrical, and Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning. In addition, Fashion Fixtures and Flooring performed at approximately the overall company average. Comparable sales in Outdoor Power Equipment were positively impacted by favorable weather in the first half of the year combined with effective promotions. In addition, storm response efforts associated with Hurricane Sandy also positively impacted comparable sales in Outdoor Power Equipment due to increased generator sales. Comparable sales in Paint were positively impacted by new product offerings and inflation throughout the year. 

Comparable sales were below the company average in Millwork, Kitchens & Appliances, Lumber & Building Materials and Lawn & Garden. Difficult comparisons to prior year promotional activity led to decreased comparable sales in Millwork and Kitchens & Appliances. Comparable sales in Lumber & Building Material were negatively impacted by the timing of storm recovery and repair efforts in 2012 as compared to 2011, partially offset by the favorable impact of inflation throughout the year. In addition, comparable sales in Lawn & Garden were negatively impacted by extreme heat and drought conditions in the first half of the year, slightly offset by improved inventory planning and attachment rates in the second half of the year.

Gross margin – Gross margin of 34.3% for 2012 represented a 26 basis point decrease from 2011, primarily driven by an unfavorable 19 basis point impact related to our proprietary credit value proposition. In addition, we experienced a seven basis point unfavorable impact to margin related to pricing and promotional activity.

23
SG&A – The 84 basis point decrease in SG&A expense as a percentage of sales from 2011 to 2012 was primarily driven by 81 basis points of leverage due to long-lived asset impairment and other costs associated with the 27 store closures and discontinued projects in 2011. We also experienced approximately 35 basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit program, which was driven by increased portfolio income as a result of continued growth in the program. These were partially offset by deleverage of approximately 15 basis points associated with incentive compensation, due to higher attainment levels compared to targets for store-based employees relative to last year. In addition, we experienced nine basis points of deleverage in contract labor associated with information technology projects to improve customer experiences.

Depreciation – Depreciation expense deleveraged six basis points for 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to higher depreciation associated with IT capital investments made to improve customer experiences, which have shorter average useful lives. Property, less accumulated depreciation, decreased to $21.5 billion at February 1, 2013 compared to $22.0 billion at February 3, 2012. At February 1, 2013 and February 3, 2012 we owned 89% of our stores, which included stores on leased land.

Interest – Net – Net interest expense is comprised of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net interest expense increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.0 billion and $2.0 billion of unsecured notes in November 2011 and April 2012, respectively, partially offset by favorable tax settlements that resulted in a reduced interest accrual during 2012.

Income tax provision – Our effective income tax rate was 37.6% in 2012 compared to 36.7% in 2011. The lower effective tax rate in 2011 was the result of the recognition of one-time federal employee retention benefits from the federal HIRE (Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment) retention tax credit, as well as the favorable settlement of certain state tax matters in the third quarter of 2011.

LOWE’S BUSINESS OUTLOOK

As of February 26, 2014, the date of our fourth quarter 2013 earnings release, we expected total sales in 2014 to increase approximately 5% and comparable sales to increase approximately 4%. We expected to open approximately 15 home improvement stores and five Orchard stores during 2014. In addition, earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales (operating margin) were expected to increase approximately 65 basis points, and the effective tax rate was expected to be approximately 38.1%. Diluted earnings per share of $2.60 were expected for the fiscal year ending January 30, 2015. Our guidance assumed approximately $3.4 billion in share repurchases during 2014, spread evenly across the four quarters.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash Flows

Cash flows from operating activities continued to provide the primary source of our liquidity. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2013 versus 2012 was primarily driven by an increase in net earnings. The increase in net cash used in investing activities for 2013 versus 2012 was driven by a decrease in the net cash flows from purchase and sale of investments and the acquisition of Orchard, partially offset by a decrease in capital expenditures. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities for 2013 was driven primarily by a decrease in cash used to repurchase shares, which included shares repurchased under our share repurchase program and shares withheld from employees to satisfy statutory tax withholding liabilities upon vesting of restricted stock awards, the repayment of unsecured notes that matured in the prior year, and an increase in short-term borrowings in the current year. These were partially offset by a decrease in cash provided by the issuance of long term-debt as a result of the issuance of $1.0 billion of unsecured notes in September 2013 versus the issuance of $2.0 billion of unsecured notes in April 2012.

24
Sources of Liquidity

In addition to our cash flows from operations, liquidity is provided by our short-term borrowing facilities. We have a $1.75 billion senior credit facility that expires in October 2016. The senior credit facility supports our commercial paper program and has a $500 million letter of credit sublimit. Letters of credit issued pursuant to the senior credit facility reduce the amount available for borrowing under its terms. Borrowings made are unsecured and are priced at fixed rates based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms of the senior credit facility. The senior credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage ratio as defined by the senior credit facility. We were in compliance with those covenants at January 31, 2014. Thirteen banking institutions are participating in the senior credit facility. At January 31, 2014 we had $386 million of outstanding borrowings under the commercial paper program and no letters of credit under the senior credit facility.

We expect to continue to have access to the capital markets on both short-term and long-term bases when needed for liquidity purposes by issuing commercial paper or new long-term debt. The availability and the borrowing costs of these funds could be adversely affected, however, by a downgrade of our debt ratings or a deterioration of certain financial ratios. The table below reflects our debt ratings by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s as of March 31, 2014, which we are disclosing to enhance understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effect of our ratings on our cost of funds. Although we currently do not expect a downgrade in our debt ratings, our commercial paper and senior debt ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We believe that net cash provided by operating and financing activities will be adequate not only for our operating requirements, but also for investments in information technology, investments in our existing stores, expansion plans and acquisitions, if any, and to return cash to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases over the next 12 months. There are no provisions in any agreements that would require early cash settlement of existing debt or leases as a result of a downgrade in our debt rating or a decrease in our stock price. In addition, we do not have a significant amount of cash held in foreign affiliates that is unavailable to fund domestic operations.

Cash Requirements

Capital expenditures

Our fiscal 2014 capital budget is approximately $1.25 billion, inclusive of approximately $50 million of lease commitments, resulting in a planned net cash outflow of $1.2 billion. Investments in our existing stores are expected to account for approximately 40% of net cash outflow including investments in store equipment, resets and remerchandising. Approximately 30% of the planned net cash outflow is for investments in corporate infrastructure, including enhancements in information technology. Our expansion plans for 2014 consist of approximately 15 new home improvement stores and five new Orchard stores. Nine of the home improvement stores and none of the Orchard stores are expected to be owned. Approximately 13% of the new home improvement stores are expected to be on leased land. Store expansion will account for approximately 30% of the planned net cash outflow. 

Debt and capital

In September 2013, we issued $1.0 billion of unsecured notes in two tranches: $500 million of 3.875% notes maturing in September 2023 and $500 million of 5.0% notes maturing in September 2043. The 2023 and 2043 notes were issued at discounts of approximately $5 million and $9 million, respectively. Interest on these notes is payable semiannually in arrears in March and September of each year until maturity, beginning in March 2014.

The discounts associated with these issuances, which include the underwriting and issuance discounts, are recorded in long-term debt and are being amortized over the respective terms of the notes.

Dividends declared during fiscal 2013 totaled $741 million. Our dividend payment dates are established such that dividends are paid in the quarter immediately following the quarter in which they are declared. The dividend declared in the fourth quarter of 2013 was paid in fiscal 2014 and totaled $186 million.

25
We have an ongoing share repurchase program that is executed through purchases made from time to time either in the open market or through private off-market transactions. Shares purchased under the repurchase program are retired and returned to authorized and unissued status. On February 1, 2013, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a $5.0 billion share repurchase program with no expiration. As of January 31, 2014, the Company had $1.3 billion remaining available under this authorization. On January 31, 2014, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional $5.0 billion of share repurchases with no expiration, increasing the total share repurchases authorized as of fiscal year end January 31, 2014 to $6.3 billion. In fiscal 2014, the Company expects to repurchase shares totaling $3.4 billion through purchases made from time to time either in the open market or through private off market transactions in accordance with SEC regulations.

Our ratio of debt to equity plus debt was 47.0% and 39.6% as of January 31, 2014, and February 1, 2013, respectively.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Other than in connection with executing operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing that has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material, current or future effect on our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS

The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at January 31, 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Amounts do not include taxes, common area maintenance, insurance or contingent rent because these amounts have

 historically been insignificant.

2 Represents commitments related to certain marketing and information technology programs, and purchases of merchandise

 inventory.

3 Letters of credit are issued primarily for insurance and construction contracts.

At January 31, 2014, our reserve for uncertain tax positions (including penalties and interest) was $69 million, of which $7 million was classified as a current liability and $62 million was classified as a noncurrent liability. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements presented in this Form 10-K requires us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates on historical results and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which form the basis for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

26
Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following accounting policies affect the most significant estimates and management judgments used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.

Merchandise Inventory

Description

We record an obsolete inventory reserve for the anticipated loss associated with selling inventories below cost. This reserve is based on our current knowledge with respect to inventory levels, sales trends and historical experience. During 2013, our reserve increased approximately $11 million to $68 million as of January 31, 2014.

We also record an inventory reserve for the estimated shrinkage between physical inventories. This reserve is based primarily on actual shrinkage results from previous physical inventories. During 2013, the inventory shrinkage reserve increased approximately $16 million to $158 million as of January 31, 2014.

In addition, we receive funds from vendors in the normal course of business, principally as a result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions of vendors’ products. Generally, these vendor funds do not represent the reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs that we incurred to sell the vendor’s product. Therefore, we treat these funds as a reduction in the cost of inventory as the amounts are accrued, and recognize these funds as a reduction of cost of sales when the inventory is sold. Funds that are determined to be reimbursements of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to sell vendors’ products are recorded as an offset to the related expense.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate

We do not believe that our merchandise inventories are subject to significant risk of obsolescence in the near term, and we have the ability to adjust purchasing practices based on anticipated sales trends and general economic conditions. However, changes in consumer purchasing patterns or a deterioration in product quality could result in the need for additional reserves. Likewise, changes in the estimated shrink reserve may be necessary, based on the timing and results of physical inventories. We also apply judgment in the determination of levels of non-productive inventory and assumptions about net realizable value.

For vendor funds, we develop accrual rates based on the provisions of the agreements in place. Due to the complexity and diversity of the individual vendor agreements, we perform analyses and review historical purchase trends and volumes throughout the year, adjust accrual rates as appropriate and confirm actual amounts with select vendors to ensure the amounts earned are appropriately recorded. Amounts accrued throughout the year could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected purchase volumes, especially in the case of programs that provide for increased funding when graduated purchase volumes are met.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our inventory valuation or the related reserves for obsolete inventory or inventory shrinkage during the past three fiscal years. We believe that we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates for both of these inventory reserves. However, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded reserves. A 10% change in either the amount of products considered obsolete or the weighted average estimated loss rate used in the calculation of our obsolete inventory reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately $4 million for 2013. A 10% change in the estimated shrinkage rate included in the calculation of our inventory shrinkage reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately $10 million for 2013.

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize vendor funds during the past three fiscal years. If actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and estimates used, we could be exposed to additional adjustments that could positively or negatively impact gross margin and inventory. However, substantially all receivables associated with these activities do not require subjective long-term estimates because they are collected within the following fiscal year. Adjustments to gross margin and inventory in the following fiscal year have historically not been material.

Long-Lived Asset Impairment

Description

We review the carrying amounts of locations whenever certain events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. When evaluating locations for impairment, our asset group is at an individual location level, as that is the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable. Cash flows for individual locations do not include an allocation of corporate overhead.

27
We evaluate locations for triggering events relating to long-lived asset impairment on a quarterly basis to determine when a location’s asset carrying values may not be recoverable. For operating locations, our primary indicator that asset carrying values may not be recoverable is consistently negative cash flow for a 12-month period for those locations that have been open in the same location for a sufficient period of time to allow for meaningful analysis of ongoing operating results. Management also monitors other factors when evaluating operating locations for impairment, including individual locations’ execution of their operating plans and local market conditions, including incursion, which is the opening of either other Lowe’s locations or those of a direct competitor within the same market. We also consider there to be a triggering event when there is a current expectation that it is more likely than not that a given location will be closed significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life.

A potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the location’s assets are less than the carrying amount of the assets. When determining the stream of projected future cash flows associated with an individual operating location, management makes assumptions, incorporating local market conditions, about key store variables including sales growth rates, gross margin and controllable expenses, such as store payroll and occupancy expense, as well as asset residual values or lease rates. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the operating location is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value.

We use an income approach to determine the fair value of our individual operating locations, which requires discounting projected future cash flows. This involves making assumptions regarding both a location’s future cash flows, as described above, and an appropriate discount rate to determine the present value of those future cash flows. We discount our cash flow estimates at a rate commensurate with the risk that selected market participants would assign to the cash flows. The selected market participants represent a group of other retailers with a market footprint similar in size to ours.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate

Our impairment evaluations require us to apply judgment in determining whether a triggering event has occurred, including the evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that a location will be closed significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. Our impairment loss calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected future cash flows, including estimated sales, margin and controllable expenses, and assumptions about market performance for operating locations and estimated selling prices or lease rates for locations identified for closure. We also apply judgment in estimating asset fair values, including the selection of an appropriate discount rate for fair values determined using an income approach.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions

During 2013, 15 operating locations experienced a triggering event and were evaluated for recoverability. One of the 15 operating locations was determined to be impaired. We recorded impairment losses related to this operating location of $26 million during 2013, compared to impairment losses on operating locations of $55 million during 2012.

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to estimate the future cash flows of operating locations or locations identified for closure during the past three fiscal years. If the actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in determining whether it is more likely than not that a location will be closed significantly before the end of its useful life or in estimating future cash flows and determining asset fair values, our actual impairment losses could vary positively or negatively from our estimated impairment losses.

Fourteen of the 15 operating locations that experienced a triggering event during 2013 were determined to be recoverable and therefore were not impaired. For 11 of these 14 locations, the expected undiscounted cash flows substantially exceeded the net book value of the location’s assets. For these 11 locations, a 10% reduction in projected sales used to estimate future cash flows at the latest date these operating locations were evaluated for impairment would have resulted in the impairment of four of these locations and increased recognized impairment losses by $39 million.

Three of the operating locations with a net book value of $25 million had expected undiscounted cash flows that exceeded the net book value of its assets by less than a substantial amount. A 10% reduction in projected sales used to estimate future cash flows at the date these operating locations were evaluated for impairment would have resulted in the impairment of these three locations and increased recognized impairment losses by $23 million.

We analyzed other assumptions made in estimating the future cash flows of the operating locations evaluated for impairment, but the sensitivity of those assumptions was not significant to the estimates.

28
Store Closing Lease Obligations

Description

When locations under operating leases are closed, we recognize a liability for the fair value of future contractual obligations associated with the leased location. The fair value of the store closing lease obligation is determined using an expected present value cash flow model incorporating future minimum lease payments, property taxes, utilities, common area maintenance and other ongoing expenses, net of estimated sublease income and other recoverable items, discounted at a credit-adjusted risk free rate. The expected present value cash flow model uses a probability weighted scenario approach that assigns varying cash flows to certain scenarios based on the expected likelihood of outcomes. Estimating the fair value involves making assumptions regarding estimated sublease income by obtaining information from property brokers or appraisers in the specific markets being evaluated. The information includes comparable lease rates of similar assets and assumptions about demand in the market for leasing these assets. Subsequent changes to the liability, including a change resulting from a revision to either the timing or the amount of estimated cash flows, are recognized in the period of the change.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate

Our store closing lease liability calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected future cash flows, primarily related to estimated sublease income, and the selection of an appropriate discount rate.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions

During 2013, the Company relocated two stores subject to operating leases. During 2012, one store was relocated. We recorded $11 million of expense for store closing lease obligations during both 2013 and 2012. For 2013, these charges included $5 million related to locations closed or relocated during 2013 and $6 million of adjustments related to previously closed or relocated locations.

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to estimate the expected future cash flows of closed locations under operating leases during the past three fiscal years. If the actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in estimating expected future cash flows, our store closing lease obligation losses could vary positively or negatively from our estimated losses. A 10% change in the store closing lease liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $3 million for 2013.

Self-Insurance

Description

We are self-insured for certain losses relating to workers’ compensation; automobile; general and product liability; extended protection plan; and certain medical and dental claims. Our self-insured retention or deductible, as applicable, is limited to $2 million per occurrence involving workers’ compensation and $3 million per occurrence involving automobile, general or product liability. Additionally, a corridor retention of $2 million per occurrence applies to commercial general liability and product liability claims, subject to a $6 million maximum over a three-year period. We do not have any insurance coverage for self-insured extended protection plan or medical and dental claims. Self-insurance claims filed and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based upon our estimates of the discounted ultimate cost for self-insured claims incurred using actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and historical experience. During 2013, our self-insurance liability increased approximately $5 million to $904 million as of January 31, 2014. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate

These estimates are subject to changes in the regulatory environment; utilized discount rate; projected exposures including payroll, sales and vehicle units; as well as the frequency, lag and severity of claims.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our self-insurance liability during the past three fiscal years. Although we believe that we have the ability to reasonably estimate losses related to claims, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded self-insurance liabilities. A 10% change in our self-insurance liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $56 million for 2013. A 100 basis point change in our discount rate would have affected net earnings by approximately $21 million for 2013.

29
Revenue Recognition

Description

See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our revenue recognition policies. The following accounting estimates relating to revenue recognition require management to make assumptions and apply judgment regarding the effects of future events that cannot be determined with certainty.

We sell separately-priced extended protection plan contracts under a Lowe’s-branded program for which the Company is ultimately self-insured. The Company recognizes revenues from extended protection plan sales on a straight-line basis over the respective contract term. Extended protection plan contract terms primarily range from one to four years from the date of purchase or the end of the manufacturer’s warranty, as applicable. The Company consistently groups and evaluates extended protection plan contracts based on the characteristics of the underlying products and the coverage provided in order to monitor for expected losses. A loss on the overall contract would be recognized if the expected costs of performing services under the contracts exceeded the amount of unamortized acquisition costs and related deferred revenue associated with the contracts. Deferred revenues associated with the extended protection plan contracts increased $15 million to $730 million as of January 31, 2014.

We defer revenue and cost of sales associated with settled transactions for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed. Revenue is deferred based on the actual amounts received. We use historical gross margin rates to estimate the adjustment to cost of sales for these transactions. During 2013, deferred revenues associated with these transactions increased $20 million to $461 million as of January 31, 2014.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate

For extended protection plans, there is judgment inherent in our evaluation of expected losses as a result of our methodology for grouping and evaluating extended protection plan contracts and from the actuarial determination of the estimated cost of the contracts. There is also judgment inherent in our determination of the recognition pattern of costs of performing services under these contracts.

For the deferral of revenue and cost of sales associated with transactions for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed, there is judgment inherent in our estimates of gross margin rates.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize revenue on our extended protection plan contracts during the past three fiscal years. We currently do not anticipate incurring any overall contract losses on our extended protection plan contracts. Although we believe that we have the ability to adequately monitor and estimate expected losses under the extended protection plan contracts, it is possible that actual results could differ from our estimates. In addition, if future evidence indicates that the costs of performing services under these contracts are incurred on other than a straight-line basis, the timing of revenue recognition under these contracts could change. A 10% change in the amount of revenue recognized in 2013 under these contracts would have affected net earnings by approximately $17 million.

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to reverse net sales and cost of sales related to amounts received for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed. We believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates related to the impact to cost of sales for these transactions. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may incur additional income or expense. A 10% change in the estimate of the gross margin rates applied to these transactions would have affected net earnings by approximately $8 million in 2013.

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

We speak throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K in forward-looking statements about our future, but particularly in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. The words “believe,” “expect,” “will,” “should,” "suggest", and other similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. While we believe our expectations are reasonable, they are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results could differ substantially from our expectations.

For a detailed description of the risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that 

30
document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements in this section and in the “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this report.

Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk