Item 1A - Risk Factors

We have developed a risk management process using periodic surveys, external research, planning processes, risk mapping, analytics and other tools to identify and evaluate the operational, financial, environmental, reputational, strategic and other risks that could adversely affect our business. For more information about our risk management process, which is administered by our Chief Risk Officer and includes developing risk mitigation controls and procedures for the material risks we identify, see the description included in the proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareholders (as defined in Item 10 of Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) under “Board’s Role in the Risk Management Process”.

We describe below all known material risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or business prospects. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in our future periodic reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and reports on other forms we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements about our future results of operations or other matters made by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in our Annual Report to Lowe’s Shareholders and in our subsequently filed reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as in our press releases and other public communications, are qualified by the risks described below.

Our sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general economy.

General economic factors and other conditions, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect the U.S. economy, the global economy and our financial performance. These include, but are not limited to, periods of slow economic growth or recession, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability and/or higher cost of borrowing to Lowe’s and its customers, slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income, sustained high rates of unemployment, consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters, and acts of both domestic and international terrorism. The sluggish and uneven pace of the recovery from the deep global recession could continue to have an adverse effect on the rate of growth of discretionary spending by consumers and the share of such spending on home improvement products and services.

Adverse changes in economic factors specific to the home improvement industry may negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and comparable sales.

Sales of many of our product categories and services are driven by the activity level of home improvement projects. Although the housing market has been strengthened by favorable interest rates and lower home prices, the large number of households that continue to have little available equity, mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates that remain abnormally high, tighter restrictions on the availability of mortgage financing, slower household formation growth rates, and lower growth in housing turnover through existing home sales, have limited, and may continue to limit, consumers’ discretionary spending, particularly on larger home improvement projects that are important to the growth of our business. Another potential risk to the home 

10
improvement industry is the possibility that interest rates will rise as the Federal Reserve System follows through in 2014 and 2015 on its announced plans to gradually withdraw the economic stimulus provided in recent years.

Changes in existing or new laws and regulations or regulatory enforcement priorities could adversely affect our business.

Laws and regulations at the local, regional, state, federal and international levels change frequently, and the changes can impose significant costs and other burdens of compliance on our business and our vendors. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new legislation that affect employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs, health care, cyber-security, tax or environmental issues, could have an adverse impact, directly or indirectly, on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in enforcement priorities by governmental agencies charged with enforcing existing laws and regulations can increase our cost of doing business. In addition, our contracts with U.S., as well as state and local government entities, are subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements, including audits and investigations, relating to their formation, administration, and performance, and we may be adversely affected by changes in the regulations or negative findings from audits or investigations.

Our business and our reputation could be adversely affected by the failure to protect sensitive customer, employee, vendor or Company information or to comply with evolving regulations relating to our obligation to protect our systems and assets and such information from the threat of cyber-attacks.

Cyber-attacks designed to gain access to sensitive information by breaching mission critical systems of large organizations are constantly evolving, and high profile electronic security breaches leading to unauthorized release of sensitive customer information have occurred recently at a number of major U.S. companies, including several large retailers, despite widespread recognition of the cyber-attack threat and improved data protection methods. While we have invested in the protection of our information technology and maintain what we believe are adequate security procedures and controls over the Company’s records and intellectual property, in addition to financial and other individually identifiable customer, employee and vendor data provided to us, a breach in our systems that results in the unauthorized release of sensitive data could nonetheless occur and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, drive customers away and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, or potential liability, including possible punitive damages. An electronic security breach resulting in the unauthorized release of sensitive data from our information systems could also materially increase the costs we already incur to protect against such risks. In addition, as the regulatory environment relating to retailers and other companies' obligation to protect such sensitive data becomes stricter, a material failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to fines or other regulatory sanctions and potentially to lawsuits.

We have many competitors who could take sales and market share from us if we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing and distribution strategies effectively.

We operate in a highly competitive market for home improvement products and services and have numerous large and small, direct and indirect competitors. The competitive environment in which we operate is particularly challenging during periods of slower economic growth and higher unemployment. The principal competitive factors in our industry include location of stores, customer service, quality and price of merchandise and services, in-stock levels, and merchandise assortment and presentation. Our failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the markets for home improvement products and services could affect our financial performance. Moreover, changes in the promotional pricing and other practices of our competitors, including the effects of competitor liquidation activities, may impact our results.

Our inability to effectively manage our relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products could negatively impact our business plan and financial results.

We form strategic relationships with selected suppliers to market and develop products under a variety of recognized and respected national brand names. The inability to effectively and efficiently manage and maintain the relationships with these suppliers could negatively impact our business plan and financial results.

Operating internationally presents unique challenges that have required us to adapt our store operations, merchandising, marketing and distribution functions to serve customers in Canada and Mexico and to work effectively with our joint venture partner in Australia.

A significant portion of our anticipated store growth over the next five years will be in Canada and Mexico. We are also in a joint venture with Australia’s largest retailer, Woolworths Limited, to develop a network of home improvement stores for consumers in Australia. Expanding internationally presents unique challenges that may increase the anticipated costs and risks, and slow the anticipated rate, of such expansion.

11
If the domestic or international supply chain for our products is disrupted, our sales and gross margin would be adversely impacted.

We source, stock, and sell products from over 7,000 domestic and international vendors and their ability to reliably and efficiently fulfill our orders is critical to our business success. We source a large number of those products from foreign manufacturers with China continuing to be the dominant import source. Financial instability among key vendors, political instability or labor unrest in source countries, retaliatory trade restrictions imposed by either the United States or a major source country, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs are beyond our control and could negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupted the movement of products through our supply chain or increased their costs.

Because of our operations in multiple countries, we must comply with multiple laws and regulations that differ substantially from country to country. 

If we fail to comply with these laws, rules and regulations, or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, we may be subject to government enforcement action, litigation, damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, and increased cost of regulatory compliance, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. These laws, rules and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to help ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees and third parties with whom we do business will not take actions in violation of our policies or laws. We may also be subject to investigations or audits by governmental authorities and regulatory agencies, which can occur in the ordinary course of business or which can result from increased scrutiny from a particular agency towards an industry, country or practice.

If we are unable to secure or develop and implement sufficiently robust new technologies to deliver business process solutions within the appropriate time frame, cost and functionality, our strategic initiatives that are dependent upon these technologies may not be successful.

The success of our strategic initiatives designed to increase our sales and capture a greater percentage of our customers’ expenditures on home improvement projects is dependent in varying degrees on the timely delivery and the functionality of information technology systems to support them. Extended delays or cost overruns in securing, developing and otherwise implementing technology solutions to support the new business initiatives we are developing now, and will be developing in the future, would delay and possibly even prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of those initiatives.

We may be unable to make the transformational changes we are undertaking in our business model.

We are adapting our business model to meet our customers’ changing expectations that we will not only sell them the products and services they need and want, but also deliver better customer experiences. We will offer a cohesive group of products that provide relevant occasion-based solutions and will present them in an inspiring manner. Our strategies require transformational changes to our business model and will require new competencies in some positions, and our employees and independent contractors, such as third-party installers and repair technicians, will not only have to understand non-traditional selling platforms but also commit to fundamental changes in Lowe’s culture and the processes through which they have traditionally interacted with customers. To the extent they are unable or unwilling to make these transformational changes, we may be unable to operationalize our strategic initiatives, which are designed to increase our sales and capture a greater percentage of our customers’ expenditures on home improvement projects. The many challenges our management faces as we adapt our business model also increase the risk that we may not achieve our objectives.

If we fail to hire, train, manage and retain qualified sales associates and specialists with expanded skill sets who can work effectively and collaboratively in an increasingly culturally diverse environment, we could lose sales to our competitors.

Our customers, whether they are homeowners or commercial businesses, expect our sales associates and specialists to be well trained and knowledgeable about the products we sell and the home improvement services we provide. Increasingly, our sales associates and specialists must have expanded skill sets, including, in some instances, the ability to do in-home or telephone sales. In addition, in many of our stores our employees must be able to serve customers whose primary language and cultural traditions are different from their own. A critical challenge we face is attracting and retaining a sufficiently diverse workforce that can deliver a relevant, culturally competent and differentiated experience for a wide variety of culturally diverse customers. Also, as our employees become increasingly culturally diverse, our managers and sales associates must be able to manage and work collaboratively with employees whose primary language and cultural traditions are different from their own. 

12
Our financial performance could suffer if we fail to properly maintain our critical information systems or if those systems are seriously disrupted.

An important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions, and sales and cash flow growth is the maintenance and ongoing improvements of our existing management information systems that support operations such as inventory replenishment, merchandise ordering, transportation, receipt processing and product delivery. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we are unable to maintain, improve, upgrade, and expand our systems.

As customer-facing technology systems become an increasingly important part of our multi-channel sales and marketing strategy, the failure of those systems to perform effectively and reliably could keep us from delivering positive customer experiences.

Access to the internet from computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile communication devices has empowered our customers and changed the way they shop and how we interact with them. Our website, Lowes.com, is a sales channel for our products, and is also a method of making product, project and other relevant information available to them that impacts our in-store sales. In addition to Lowes.com, we have multiple affiliated websites and mobile apps through which we seek to inspire, inform, cross-sell, establish online communities among and otherwise interact with our customers. Performance issues with these customer-facing technology systems, including temporary outages caused by distributed denial of service or other cyber-attacks, or a complete failure of one or more of them without a disaster recovery plan that can be quickly implemented could quickly destroy the positive benefits they provide to our home improvement business and negatively affect our customers’ perceptions of Lowe’s as a reliable online vendor and source of information about home improvement products and services.

We are subject to payments-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business.

We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts, gift cards, direct debit from a customer’s bank account, consumer invoicing, and physical bank check. These payment options subject us to compliance requirements. They also subject us to potential fraud by criminal elements seeking to discover and take advantage of security vulnerabilities that may exist in some of these payment systems. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, gift cards, and promotional financing, and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card issuing banks’ costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We also offer co-branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our operating results if terminated.

Failure of a key vendor or service provider that we cannot quickly replace could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business.

No single vendor of the products we sell accounts for more than 6% of our total purchases, but we rely upon a number of vendors as the sole or primary source of some of the products we sell. We also rely upon many independent service providers for technology solutions and other services that are important to many aspects of our business. If these vendors or service providers fail or are unable to perform as expected and we are unable to replace them quickly, our business could be adversely affected, at least temporarily, until we are able to do so and potentially, in some cases, permanently.

Failure to effectively manage our third party installers could result in increased operational and legal risks. 

We use third party installers to provide installation services to our customers, and as the general contractor, are subject to regulatory requirements and risks, applicable to general contractors, including the management of the permitting, licensing and quality of our third party installers. Our failure to effectively manage such requirements and risks could result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits, as well as damage to our reputation, which could negatively affect our business.

Failure to achieve and maintain a high level of product and service quality could damage our image with customers and negatively impact our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.

Product and service quality issues could result in a negative impact on customer confidence in Lowe’s and the Company’s brand image. As a result, Lowe’s reputation as a retailer of high quality products and services, including both national and Lowe’s private brands, could suffer and impact customer loyalty. Additionally, a decline in product and service quality could result in product recalls, product liability and warranty claims.

13
Future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements.

We are, and in the future will become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. Some of these proceedings may raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and can be subject to uncertainties and complexities. The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is typically uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes of, or resolutions to, these proceedings could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments. None of the legal proceedings in which we are currently involved, individually or collectively, is considered material.

Item 1B - Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2 - Properties