ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with “Selected Financial Data” and TD Group’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The following discussion may contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under the heading entitled “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this report. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future performance suggested below.   

Overview  

We believe we are a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components for use on nearly all commercial and military aircraft in service today. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products we offer to our customers. Some of our more significant product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to end-users in the aerospace industry, include mechanical/electromechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and components, gear pumps, specialized valves, engineered connectors, power conditioning devices, specialized fluorescent lighting, specialized AC/DC electric motors, aircraft audio systems, engineered latches and cockpit security devices, lavatory hardware and components, hold open rods and locking devices, specialized cockpit displays, elastomers, NiCad batteries and chargers, starter generators and related components. Each of these product offerings consists of many individual products that are typically customized to meet the needs of a particular aircraft platform or customer.  

For fiscal year 2009, we generated net sales of $761.6 million and net income of $162.9 million. In addition, for fiscal year 2009, our EBITDA was $362.9 million, or 47.7% of net sales, our EBITDA As Defined was $374.7 million, or 49.2% of net sales, and our capital expenditures were $13.2 million, or 1.7% of net sales. See “EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined” below for certain information regarding EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined, including a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined and a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined.  

We estimate that over 95% of our net sales for fiscal year 2009 were generated by proprietary products for which we own the design. These products are generally approved and certified by airframe manufacturers (who often certify only one manufacturer’s component design for a specific application on an aircraft), government agencies and/or the FAA and similar entities or agencies. In addition, for fiscal year 2009, we estimate that we generated approximately 80% of our net sales from products for which we are the sole source provider.  

Most of our products generate significant aftermarket revenue. Once our parts are designed into and sold as original equipment on an aircraft, we generate net sales from recurring aftermarket consumption over the life of that aircraft. This installed base and our sole source provider position generate a long-term stream of aftermarket revenues over the estimated 30-year life of an individual aircraft. We estimate that approximately 60% of our net sales in fiscal year 2009 were generated from aftermarket sales, the vast majority of which come from the commercial and military aftermarkets. These aftermarket revenues have historically produced a higher gross margin and have been more stable than sales to OEMs.  

In fiscal year 2009, our top two customers accounted for approximately 22% of our net sales, and during this same period our top ten customers accounted for approximately 44% of our net sales. However, our components are ultimately used on a large, diverse installed base of aircraft and, therefore, we are not overly dependent on any single airframe produced by any of our customers or other ultimate end-users of our products. In the commercial aerospace sector, which generated approximately 65% of our net sales for fiscal year 2009, we sell to distributors of aftermarket components, as well as directly to commercial airlines, aircraft maintenance facilities, systems suppliers, and aircraft and engine OEMs. In addition, for fiscal year 2009, approximately 32% of our net sales were attributable to the defense aerospace sector. Net sales to the defense sector are generated  

27  

Table of Contents 

 primarily through sales to the United States and foreign militaries, brokers, distributors and defense OEMs. The remaining portion of our net sales in fiscal year 2009, or approximately 3% of our net sales during this period, were derived from industries with similar niche engineered product characteristics such as the mining and power generation industries.  

Public Offerings  

On May 25, 2007, certain of TD Group’s stockholders, including certain members of our management, sold an aggregate of 11.5 million shares of TD Group’s common stock in an underwritten public offering at a public offering price of $35.25 per share. TD Group did not sell any shares in the offering and did not receive any proceeds from the offering.  

On March 20, 2006, certain stockholders of TD Group and certain members of our management sold an aggregate of 12.6 million shares of TD Group’s common stock in the Initial Public Offering at a price of $21.00 per share. TD Group did not offer any shares of its common stock for sale in the initial public offering and TD Group did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of such shares by the selling stockholders. As a result of the initial public offering, TD Group’s common stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “TDG.”  

Certain Acquisitions  

Woodward HRT Product Line Acquisition  

On August 10, 2009, TransDigm Inc., through its AeroControlex Group Inc. subsidiary, acquired certain product line assets of Woodward HRT, Inc., a subsidiary of Woodward Governor Company (“Woodward HRT product line”) for approximately $48 million in cash, subject to adjustment based on the level of working capital as of the closing date of the acquisition. The product line comprises a range of highly engineered fuel and pneumatic valves and surge suppressors, the majority of which are used on military rotary and fixed wing aircraft, all of which fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. Woodward Governor recently acquired this business as part of its acquisition of HR Textron, Inc.  

Acme Aerospace Acquisition  

On July 24, 2009, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Acme Aerospace, Inc. (“Acme”) for approximately $40.7 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.2 million paid in October 2009. Acme is a designer and manufacturer of proprietary, highly engineered components to the commercial aerospace industry, comprising primarily fibrous nickel cadmium main ship batteries, battery chargers, battery back-up systems and power conversion equipment. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  

Aircraft Parts Corporation Acquisition  

On December 16, 2008, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Aircraft Parts Corporation (“APC”) for approximately $66.9 million in cash, net of a purchase price adjustment of $0.7 million received in November 2009. APC is a designer and manufacturer of starter generators, generator control units and related components for turbine engines, all of which fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  

Unison Product Line Acquisition  

On September 26, 2008, TransDigm Inc., through its wholly-owned Champion Aerospace, LLC subsidiary, acquired certain assets related to the magneto and harness product line business of Unison Industries, LLC (“Unison”) for approximately $68.3 million in cash, net of a purchase price adjustment of $1.1 million received  

28  

Table of Contents 

 in November 2008. The acquired product line includes the highly engineered SLICKTM magnetos, harnesses and components, which are used on substantially all of the world’s general aviation piston aircraft. These products fit well with Champion’s existing product offerings and TransDigm’s overall business direction.  

CEF Acquisition  

On May 7, 2008, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of CEF Industries, Inc. (“CEF”) for approximately $84.5 million in cash, net of a purchase price adjustment of $0.5 million received in January 2009. CEF is a designer and manufacturer of specialized and highly engineered actuators, pumps and related components primarily for the military aerospace market, all of which fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  

Bruce Acquisition  

On August 10, 2007, TransDigm Inc., through a newly formed subsidiary, Bruce Aerospace Inc. (“Bruce”), acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Bruce Industries for approximately $35.5 million in cash, net of a purchase price adjustment of $0.2 million received in February 2008. Bruce designs and manufactures specialized fluorescent lighting used in the aircraft industry. The proprietary nature, established positions, and aftermarket content fit well with our overall business direction.  

ATI Acquisition  

On February 7, 2007, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Aviation Technologies, Inc. (“ATI”) for approximately $430 million in cash. ATI consists of two primary operating units that service the commercial and military aerospace markets – Avtech Corporation (“Avtech”) and Transicoil LLC (which, together with Transicoil (Malaysia) Sendirian Berhad is referred to as “ADS/Transicoil”). Avtech is a supplier of flight deck and passenger audio systems, cabin lighting, and power control products and related components. ADS/Transicoil is a supplier of displays, clocks, brushless motors and related components and instruments. Through Avtech and ADS/Transicoil, ATI manufactures proprietary products for the aerospace industry with broad platform positions and high aftermarket content, all of which fit well with TransDigm’s overall direction.  

The purchase price consideration and costs associated with the acquisition of $430.1 million were funded through additional borrowings under our senior secured credit facility of $125.4 million (net of fees of $4.6 million), the proceeds from the issuance by TransDigm Inc. of additional senior subordinated notes of $296.5 (net of fees of $6.5 million) and the use of $8.2 million of our available cash balances.  

Mr. W. Nicholas Howley, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TD Group, and Mr. Douglas Peacock, a director of TD Group, each indirectly owned less than one-half of 1% of ATI’s outstanding equity on a fully diluted basis. In addition, prior to the acquisition, Mr. Howley and Mr. Peacock were directors of ATI commencing in 2003, and Mr. Peacock served as ATI’s Chairman from 2003 through February 2007.  

29  

Table of Contents 

EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined  

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) EBITDA represents earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA As Defined represents EBITDA plus, as applicable for each relevant period, certain adjustments as set forth in the reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information and limitations regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.  

 (2) Represents purchase accounting adjustments to inventory associated with the acquisitions of various businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was sold.  

 (3) Represents costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into TD Group’s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related costs.  

 (4) Represents the expenses recognized by us under our stock option plans and our deferred compensation plans.  

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

30  

Table of Contents 

 (1) Represents interest expense excluding the amortization of debt issue costs and note premium.  

 (2) Represents the compensation expense recognized by TD Group under its stock plans.  

 (3) EBITDA represents earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA As Defined represents EBITDA plus, as applicable for each relevant period, certain adjustments as set forth in the reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information and limitations regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.  

 (4) Represents purchase accounting adjustments to inventory associated with the acquisitions of various businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was sold.  

 (5) Represents costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into TD Group’s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related costs.  

 (6) Represents the expenses recognized by us under our stock option plans and our deferred compensation plans.  

Trend Information  

We predominantly serve customers in the commercial, regional, business jet and general aviation aftermarket, which accounts for approximately 40% of total sales; the commercial aerospace OEM market, comprising large commercial transport manufacturers and regional and business jet manufacturers, which accounts for approximately 25% of total sales; and the defense market, which accounts for approximately 32% of total sales. Non-aerospace sales comprise approximately 3% of our total sales.  

The commercial aerospace industry, including the aftermarket and OEM market, is impacted by the health of the global economy and geo-political events around the world. The commercial aerospace industry had shown strength with increases in revenue passenger miles, or RPMs, between 2003 and 2008, as well as increases in OEM production and backlog, however, the global economic downturn, airline capacity reductions and concerns over the financial credit markets have negatively impacted the commercial aerospace industry causing RPMs to decline slightly in 2009. The defense aerospace market is dependent on government budget constraints, the timing of orders and the extent of global conflicts. It is not necessarily affected by general economic conditions that affect the commercial aerospace industry.  

Our presence in both the commercial aerospace and military sectors of the aerospace industry may mitigate the impact on our business of any specific industry risk. We service a diversified customer base in the commercial and military aerospace industry, and we provide components to a diverse installed base of aircraft, which mitigates our exposure to any individual airframe platform. At times, declines in sales in one sector have been offset by increased sales in another. However, due to differences between the profitability of our products sold to OEM and aftermarket customers, variation in product mix can cause variation in gross margin.  

There are many short-term factors (including inventory corrections, unannounced changes in order patterns, strikes and mergers and acquisitions) that can cause short-term disruptions in our quarterly shipment patterns as compared to previous quarters and the same periods in prior years. To normalize for short-term fluctuations, we tend to look at our performance over several quarters or years of activity rather than discreet short-term periods. As such, it can be difficult to determine longer-term trends in our business based on quarterly comparisons.  

There are also fluctuations in OEM and aftermarket ordering and delivery requests from quarter-to-quarter, as well as variations in product mix from quarter-to-quarter, that may cause positive or negative variations in gross profit margins since commercial aftermarket sales have historically produced a higher gross margin than sales to commercial OEMs. Again, in many instances these are timing events between quarters and must be balanced with macro aerospace industry indicators.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Commercial Aftermarket  

The key growth factors in the commercial aftermarket include worldwide RPMs and the size and activity level of the worldwide fleet of aircraft. Although RPMs increased annually between 2003 and 2008, industry consensus indicates that 2009 will have had negative growth as a result of expected reductions in air traffic and capacity due to the slowdown in the global economy. Industry reports expect RPMs to stabilize in 2010 and return to positive growth thereafter.  

Commercial OEM Market  

There is industry consensus that aircraft deliveries in the large commercial transport market sector (aircraft with 100 or more seats) may reach its peak in 2009. However, there are conflicting industry opinions regarding the level of future deliveries, but we believe deliveries may be flat or decrease going forward. Another indicator of future OEM sales in this market is the order backlog at The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S. Despite a significant number of airplanes in the backlog, current year orders for new airplanes have decreased from the prior year and the availability of financing is uncertain due to the current state of the credit markets. Furthermore, the business jet OEM market significantly declined in 2009 and is expected to continue to decrease in the near future. This market has also been negatively impacted by the slowdown in economic growth, corporate profits, commodity prices and stock market returns across the world.  

Defense  

In recent years, defense spending has reached historic highs, due in part to the military engagements in Afghanistan and Iraq and the war on terrorism. Our military business fluctuates from year to year, and is dependent, to a degree, on government budget constraints, the timing of orders and the extent of global conflicts. We anticipate that military related sales of our types of products will be flat in 2010 over the current high levels.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, which often requires the judgment of management in the selection and application of certain accounting principles and methods. Management believes that the quality and reasonableness of our most critical policies enable the fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. However, investors are cautioned that the sensitivity of financial statements to these methods, assumptions and estimates could create materially different results under different conditions or using different assumptions.  

We have identified the following as the most critical accounting policies upon which our financial status depends. These critical policies were determined by considering accounting policies that involve the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments. Our most critical accounting policies are as follows:  

Revenue Recognition and Related Allowances: Substantially all of our revenues are recognized based upon shipment of products to the customer, at which time title and risk of loss passes to the customer. Substantially all sales are made pursuant to firm, fixed-price purchase orders received from customers. Provisions for returns, uncollectible accounts and the cost of repairs under contract warranty provisions are provided for in the same period as the related revenues are recorded and are principally based on historical results modified, as appropriate, by the most current information available. We have a history of making reasonably dependable estimates of such allowances; however, due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual results may vary from the estimates and the differences could be material.  

Management estimates the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the aging of the accounts receivable and customer creditworthiness. The allowance also incorporates a provision for the estimated impact of disputes with customers. Management’s estimate of the allowance amounts that are necessary includes amounts for specifically identified losses and a general amount for estimated losses based on historical information. The  

32  

Table of Contents 

 determination of the amount of the allowance for doubtful accounts is subject to significant levels of judgment and estimation by management. If circumstances change or economic conditions deteriorate, management may need to increase the allowance for doubtful accounts.  

The Company provides limited warranties in connection with the sale of its products. The warranty period for products sold varies throughout the Company’s operations, ranging from 90 days to six years. In addition, certain contracts with distributors contain right of return provisions. The Company accrues for estimated returns and warranty claims based on knowledge of product performance issues and excess inventories provided by its customers and industry sources. The Company also provides a general amount based on historical results. Historically, actual product returns and warranty claims have not differed materially from the estimates originally established.  

Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost of inventories is determined by the average cost and the first-in, first-out (FIFO) methods for all locations except CEF, which determines the cost of inventories using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. Because the Company sells products that are installed on airframes that can be in-service for 30 or more years, it must keep a supply of such products on hand while the airframes are in use. Provision for potentially obsolete or slow-moving inventory is made based on our analysis of inventory levels, past usage and future sales forecasts. Although management believes that the Company’s estimates of obsolete and slow-moving inventory are reasonable, actual results may differ materially from the estimates and additional provisions may be required in the future. In addition, in accordance with industry practice, all inventories are classified as current assets as all inventories are available and necessary to support current sales, even though a portion of the inventories may not be sold within one year.  

Intangible Assets: Mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant amounts of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognized if the benefit of the intangible asset is obtained through contractual or other legal rights, or if the intangible asset can be sold, transferred, licensed or exchanged, regardless of the Company’s intent to do so. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and are reviewed at least annually for impairment based on cash flow projections and fair value estimates. The determination of undiscounted cash flows is based on the Company’s strategic plans and long-range planning forecasts. The revenue growth rates included in the plans are based on industry and Company specific data. The profit margin assumptions included in the plans are projected based on the current cost structure and anticipated cost changes. If different assumptions were used in these plans, the related undiscounted cash flows used in measuring impairment could be different and the recognition of an impairment loss might be required. Intangible assets, such as goodwill, trademarks and trade names that have an indefinite useful life are not amortized. All other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives.  

GAAP requires that the annual, and any interim, impairment assessment be performed at the reporting unit level. The reporting unit level is the operating subsidiary level for the Company. Substantially all goodwill was determined and recognized for each operating subsidiary pursuant to the accounting for the merger or acquisition as of the date of each transaction, and therefore the allocation of goodwill among reporting units was immaterial for purposes of the impairment assessment. Certain of the acquisitions were or are being integrated into an existing operating subsidiary, and therefore any related goodwill is combined with goodwill of the operating subsidiary.  

Stock Options and Deferred Compensation Plans: The Company accounts for the cost of its stock options in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of compensation expense under the stock option plan to be based on the fair value of the awards under the plan on the grant dates and amortizes the expense over the options’ vesting periods. Compensation expense is recorded over the service period using the straight-line method for service-based awards and in the service period corresponding to the performance target for performance-based awards. In addition, the Company accounts for its deferred compensation plans by recording the cost of deferred compensation arrangements over the service period of the related employees in a systematic and rational manner.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Purchase accounting: Our mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method. Accordingly, fair value adjustments to the Company’s assets and liabilities are recognized and the results of operations of the acquired business are included in our consolidated financial statements from the effective date of the merger or acquisition. We generally use third-party appraisals to assist us in determining the fair value adjustments.  

Results of Operations  

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain operating data of the Company, including presentation of the amounts as a percentage of net sales, (amounts in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal year ended September 30, 2009 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2008  

Net Sales. Net sales increased by $47.8 million, or 6.7%, to $761.5 million for fiscal year 2009 from $713.7 million for fiscal year 2008. Sales of $64.7 million resulted from the acquisitions of CEF and the Unison product line in fiscal 2008 as well as the recent acquisitions of Aircraft Parts Corporation, Acme and the Woodward HRT product line.  

Sales declined excluding acquisitions by $16.9 million or 2.4% from the prior year. The organic sales decline was primarily due to: (i) a decrease of $30.4 million of commercial OEM sales resulting primarily from the impact of the significant decline in production rates in the business jet market resulting from the continued impact of global economic conditions negatively impacting the business jet market and a reduction in sales to The Boeing Company due to its employee strike, and (ii) a decrease of $20.1 million in commercial aftermarket sales due to the impact of the global economic downturn resulting in a decline in worldwide airline traffic and business jet activity. Partially offsetting the decline in organic commercial sales was an increase of $37.9 million in defense sales primarily due to increased demand for OEM and aftermarket spare parts and repairs across most of our product lines.  

Cost of Sales. Cost of sales increased by $4.4 million, or 1.4%, to $332.2 million for fiscal year 2009 from $327.8 from fiscal year 2008. Cost of sales as a percentage of sales decreased to 43.6% for fiscal year 2009 from 45.9% for fiscal year 2008. The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to increased volume associated with the higher net sales of $47.8 million discussed above and higher acquisition-related costs of $3.4 million. The decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of sales was primarily due the strength of the Company’s proprietary products, productivity improvements from continued cost reduction efforts and favorable product mix partially offset by the dilutive impact from recent acquisitions and higher acquisition-related costs.  

Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses increased by $5.4 million or 7.2%, to $80.0 million, 10.5% of net sales, for fiscal year 2009 from $74.6 million, or 10.5% of net sales, for fiscal year 2008. This increase was primarily due to the higher sales discussed above.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization of intangibles increased by $1.9 million to $13.9 million for fiscal year 2009 from $12.0 million for fiscal year 2008 primarily due to the recent acquisitions discussed above.  

Income from Operations. Operating income increased by $36.1 million, or 12.1%, to $335.4 million for fiscal year 2009 from $299.3 million for fiscal year 2008, primarily due to higher sales and other factors described above.  

Interest Expense-Net. Interest expense decreased $8.3 million, or 8.9%, to $84.4 million for fiscal year 2009 from $92.7 million for fiscal year 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates partially offset by a reduction in interest income of $4.5 million. The Company’s weighted average level of outstanding borrowings was approximately $1.36 billion during both fiscal 2009 and 2008 year while the average interest rate decreased to approximately 6.0% during fiscal 2009 from 6.9% for the comparable period last year (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below).  

Income Taxes. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before income taxes was approximately 35.1% for fiscal year 2009 compared to 35.6% for fiscal year 2008. The lower effective tax rate was primarily due to an increase in the research and development tax credit.  

Net Income. Net income increased $29.8 million, or 22.4%, to $162.9 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to $133.1 million for fiscal year 2008, primarily as a result of the factors referred to above.  

Fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2007  

Net Sales. Net sales increased by $120.9 million, or 20.4%, to $713.7 million for fiscal year 2008 from $592.8 million for fiscal year 2007. Sales growth excluding acquisitions was $51.9 million and represented an 8.8% increase over the prior year. The organic sales growth was primarily due to: (i) an increase of $24.5 million of military sales primarily resulting from increased demand for aftermarket spare parts across most of our product lines; (ii) an increase of $16.5 million of commercial OEM sales primarily resulting from an increase in production rates from The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S. and related OEM suppliers; and (iii) an increase of $10.2 million of commercial aftermarket sales despite being negatively impacted by an increase in the replacement time period for certain cockpit security components, as well as, modest system wide inventory fluctuations. The remaining $69.0 million increase in net sales resulted from the acquisition of of CEF in fiscal 2008 and the businesses of ATI and Bruce in fiscal 2007.  

Cost of Sales. Cost of sales increased by $44.0 million, or 15.5%, to $327.8 million for fiscal year 2008 from $283.8 from fiscal year 2007. Cost of sales as a percentage of sales decreased to 45.9% for fiscal year 2008 from 47.9% for fiscal year 2007. The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to increased volume associated with the higher net sales of $120.9 million discussed above, partially offset by a $6.1 million decrease, or 1% of net sales, in acquisition-related costs. The decrease in acquisition-related expenses was primarily due to inventory purchase accounting charges and integration costs recorded in the prior year of $8.4 million related to the acquisitions of ATI and CDA partially offset by current year inventory purchase accounting charges and integration costs of $2.3 million primarily related to the acquisitions of Bruce and CEF.  

The decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of sales was primarily due a decrease from acquisition-related costs discussed above, the strength of the Company’s proprietary products and continued productivity efforts, partially offset by the impact from the acquisitions of ATI, Bruce and CEF.  

Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses increased by $11.8 million or 18.7%, to $74.7 million for fiscal year 2008 from $62.9 million for fiscal year 2007. This increase was primarily due to the higher sales discussed above and an increase in research and development expenses of $3.5 million primarily relating to the Boeing 787 program, partially offset by the non-recurring charge of $1.7 million relating to the secondary offering recorded in the prior year.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization of intangibles decreased by $0.3 million to $12.0 million for fiscal year 2008 from $12.3 million for fiscal year 2007.  

Income from Operations. Operating income increased by $65.4 million, or 28.0%, to $299.2 million for fiscal year 2008 from $233.8 million for fiscal year 2007, primarily due to higher sales and other factors described above.  

Interest Expense-Net. Interest expense increased $0.9 million, or 1.0%, to $92.7 million for fiscal year 2008 from $91.8 million for fiscal year 2007 due to an increase in our debt of approximately $430 million from the acquisition ATI in February 2007, partially offset by lower interest rates and higher interest income of $2.3 million. The Company’s weighted average level of outstanding borrowings was approximately $1.36 billion during fiscal 2008 compared to approximately $1.20 billion during the comparable period last year while the average interest rate decreased to approximately 6.9% during fiscal 2008 from 7.6% for the comparable period last year (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below).  

Income Taxes. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before income taxes was approximately 35.6% for fiscal year 2008 compared to 37.6% for fiscal year 2007. The lower effective tax rate was primarily due to a reduction in state and local taxes, an increase in the domestic manufacturing deduction and the favorable resolution of a prior year IRS audit and state tax refund of $1.2 million partially offset by a lower research and development tax credit.  

Net Income. Net income increased $44.5 million, or 50.2%, to $133.1 million for fiscal year 2008 compared to $88.6 million for fiscal year 2007, primarily as a result of the factors referred to above.  

Backlog  

As of September 30, 2009, the Company estimated its sales order backlog at $402 million compared to an estimated sales order backlog of $418 million as of September 30, 2008. This decrease in backlog of $16 million is mainly due to lower commercial OEM and aftermarket demand including the impact of order cancellations and pushouts as well as significant reductions in business jet production rates. These declines were partially offset by the impact of the acquisitions of Aircraft Parts Corporation, Acme and the Woodward HRT product line. The majority of the purchase orders outstanding as of September 30, 2009 are scheduled for delivery within the next twelve months. Purchase orders may be subject to cancellation by the customer prior to shipment. The level of unfilled purchase orders at any given date during the year will be materially affected by the timing of the Company’s receipt of purchase orders and the speed with which those orders are filled. Accordingly, the Company’s backlog as of September 30, 2009 may not necessarily represent the actual amount of shipments or sales for any future period.  

Foreign Operations  

Although we manufacture substantially all of our products in the United States, we manufacture some products in Malaysia through our wholly-owned Malaysian subsidiary. We sell our products in the United States, as well as in foreign countries. Substantially all of our foreign sales are transacted in U.S. dollars and, therefore, we have no material exposure to fluctuations in the rate of exchange between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar as a result of foreign sales. In addition the amount of components or other raw materials or supplies that we purchase from foreign suppliers, including our Malaysian manufacturing subsidiary, are not material, with substantially all such transactions being made in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, we have no material exposure to currency fluctuations in the rate of exchange between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar arising from these transactions.  

Our direct sales to foreign customers were approximately $150.4 million, $144.3 million, and $143.0 million for fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Sales to foreign customers are subject to  

36  

Table of Contents 

 numerous additional risks, including the impact of foreign government regulations, political uncertainties and differences in business practices. There can be no assurance that foreign governments will not adopt regulations or take other action that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on the business or market opportunities of the Company within such governments’ countries. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the political, cultural and economic climate outside the United States will be favorable to our operations and growth strategy.  

Inflation  

Many of the Company’s raw materials and operating expenses are sensitive to the effects of inflation, which could result in changing operating costs. The effects of inflation on the Company’s businesses during the fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 were not significant.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Operating Activities. The Company generated $197.1 million of cash from operating activities during fiscal 2009 compared to $189.6 million generated during fiscal 2008. The increase of $7.5 million in fiscal 2009 is primarily due to an increase in net income of $29.8 million partially offset by the payout of the deferred compensation liability of $6.2 and the change in income taxes receivable (including the impact of the excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options) of $12.8 million. 

The Company generated $189.6 million of cash from operating activities during fiscal 2008 compared to $112.4 million generated during fiscal 2008. The increase of $77.2 million in fiscal 2008 is primarily due to an increase in net income of $44.5 million and favorable changes in accounts receivable and inventory of approximately $31.0 million. 

Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities was $168.4 million during fiscal 2009 consisting of the acquisitions of the businesses of Aircraft Parts Corporation, Acme and Woodward HRT product lines for a total of $155.2 million and capital expenditures of $13.2 million.  

Cash used in investing activities was $165.0 million during fiscal 2008 consisting of the acquisitions of the businesses of CEF and Unison for a total of $154.1 million and capital expenditures of $10.9 million.  

Cash used in investing activities was $521.7 million during fiscal 2007 consisting of the acquisitions of the businesses of ATI, CDA, and Bruce for a total of $511.4 million and capital expenditures of $10.3 million.  

Financing Activities. Cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2009 was $2.4 million compared to cash provided by financing activities of $28.5 million in fiscal 2008. The cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2009 related to the exercise of stock options of $17.6 million partially offset by the purchase of treasury stock for $15.2 million.  

Cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2008 of $28.5 million related to the exercise of stock options.  

Cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2007 of $454.0 million consisted of the proceeds received of $296.5 million, net of fees, from the issuance of additional 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and additional term loans of $125.4 million, net of fees, to finance the acquisition of ATI and $32.1 million related to the exercise of stock options.  

Description of Current Senior Secured Credit Facility and Indenture  

In June 2006 TransDigm refinanced its entire debt structure. In connection with the refinancing, TransDigm Inc. obtained a new senior secured credit facility. The senior secured credit facility consisted of a $650 million term loan facility, which was fully drawn at closing, and a $150 million revolving loan facility. In addition, under  

37  

Table of Contents 

 the terms of the senior secured credit facility, TransDigm Inc. had the right to request (but no lender was committed to provide) additional term loans of up to $250 million, subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, including pro forma compliance with the financial covenant contained in the senior secured credit facility after giving effect to any such incremental term loan borrowings.  

In connection with the acquisition of ATI in February 2007, TransDigm Inc. entered into an amendment of the senior secured credit facility, which provided for, among other things, (i) an additional term loan of $130 million, (ii) a $50 million increase in the revolving credit facility (bringing the total available revolver to $200 million), and (iii) a $50 million increase in the uncommitted incremental loan facility to $300 million. At September 30, 2009, $198.0 million of the revolving credit facility was available.  

The term loan facility will mature in June 2013 and is not subject to interim scheduled amortization, but is subject to certain prepayment requirements. Under the amended terms of the senior secured credit facility, commencing 90 days after the end of fiscal 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter, TransDigm Inc. is required to prepay outstanding term loans in a principal amount equal to 50% of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the senior secured credit facility); provided that the amount of the prepayment will be reduced to 25% of Excess Cash Flow if the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at the end of the applicable fiscal year is less than 5.00 to 1.00, but greater than 4.50 to 1.00. TransDigm Inc. will not be required to prepay any of the term loans if the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the end of the applicable fiscal year is equal to or less than 4.50 to 1.00 or if the term loans achieve certain minimum credit ratings at the end of such fiscal year. “Excess Cash Flow” is a negotiated definition generally designed to capture the cash that was generated by our business in excess of cash used in the business. “Consolidated Leverage Ratio” means the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to the aggregate amount of EBITDA As Defined, calculated on a pro forma basis. TransDigm’s Consolidated Leverage Ratio was approximately 3.5 to 1.00 at September 30, 2009, thus the Company was not obligated to make a prepayment of the term loans based upon the Excess Cash Flow provision.  

In addition, subject to exceptions (including reinvestment in productive assets), TransDigm Inc. is required to offer to prepay the term loans with the net proceeds of certain asset sales. The revolving loan facility will mature and the commitments thereunder will terminate in June 2012.  

The senior secured credit facility is guaranteed by TD Group and all of TransDigm Inc.’s current and future domestic restricted subsidiaries, and is secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of TransDigm Inc. and all of TransDigm Inc.’s existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries, and a first priority pledge of the capital stock of TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Inc.’s domestic subsidiaries.  

The interest rates per annum applicable to loans, other than swingline loans, under the senior secured credit facility are, at the Company’s option, equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted LIBO rate for one, two, three or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine or twelve month) interest periods chosen by TransDigm Inc., in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. The alternate base rate is the greater of (1) Credit Suisse’s prime rate or (2) 50 basis points over the weighted average rates on overnight Federal funds as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The adjusted LIBO rate is determined by reference to settlement rates established for deposits in dollars in the London interbank market for a period equal to the interest period of the loan as adjusted for the maximum reserve percentages established by the Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve. The applicable margin percentage is a percentage per annum equal to (1) 1.00% for alternate base rate term loans, (2) 2.00% for adjusted LIBO rate term loans, (3) in the case of alternate base rate revolving loans and adjusted LIBO rate revolving loans, a percentage which varies based on the consolidated leverage ratio of TransDigm Inc. as of the relevant date of determination.  

TransDigm Inc. entered into a three year interest rate swap in June 2006 with Credit Suisse for an initial notional amount of $187 million at a fixed rate of 7.63%. The notional amount decreased to $150 million on September 23, 2008, and the swap agreement expired on June 23, 2009. TransDigm Inc. entered into an additional three year interest rate swap in January 2008 with Credit Suisse for the notional amount of $300 million at a fixed rate of 5.0% through March 2011.  

38  

Table of Contents 

In connection with the refinancing, TransDigm Inc. also issued $275 million aggregate principal amount of 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes. As a result of the acquisition of ATI, TransDigm Inc. issued an additional $300 million aggregate principal amount of 7  3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes under the Indenture dated as of June 23, 2006.  

Such notes do not require principal payments prior to their maturity in July 2014. The notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally and on an unsecured senior subordinated basis, by TD Group and all of our existing domestic subsidiaries.  

Upon the closing of the ATI acquisition, the additional term loan of $130 million, together with the net proceeds from the $300 million from the additional 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and a portion of our cash balances, was drawn to fund the approximately $430 million purchase price of ATI.  

New 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes  

In October 2009, TransDigm issued $425 million aggregate principal amount of New 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes at an issue price of 97.125% of the principal amount thereof pursuant to the New Indenture dated October 6, 2009. The terms of the New 7 3/4 % Senior Subordinated Notes are substantially identical to the terms of the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes that were issued and sold by TransDigm in June 2006 and February 2007.  

The proceeds from the issuance of the New 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes, after the original issue discount, were used to make a cash distribution to TD Group, which paid a special cash dividend to its stockholders of approximately $375 million, made dividend equivalent payments to its holders of stock options of approximately $30 million and paid for transaction-related fees and expenses.  

Certain Restrictive Covenants in Our Debt Documents  

Both the senior secured credit facility and the Indentures contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, asset sales, acquisitions, mergers and consolidations, liens and encumbrances, and prepayments of other indebtedness. In addition, the revolving loan facility under the senior secured credit facility requires TransDigm Inc. to comply with a first lien leverage ratio. A breach of any of the covenants or an inability to comply with the required leverage ratio could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the Indentures. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes or the New 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings In addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders thereunder will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and the New 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes.  

Stock Repurchase Program  

In October 2008 we announced a program permitting us to repurchase a portion of our outstanding shares not to exceed $50 million in the aggregate. During 2009, we repurchased under this program 494,100 shares of at an aggregate cost of approximately $15.2 million.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations  

The following is a summary of contractual cash obligations as of September 30, 2009 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The senior secured credit facility will mature on June 23, 2013 and will not be subject to interim scheduled amortization.  

 (2) Assumes that the variable interest rate on our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility remains constant at 5.2%.  

In addition to the contractual obligations set forth above, the Company issued $425 of New 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. The annual scheduled interest payments under the New 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes will be approximately $33 million. Also, the Company incurs capital expenditures for the purpose of maintaining and replacing existing equipment and facilities and, from time to time, for facility expansion. Capital expenditures totaled approximately $13.2 million, $10.9 million, and $10.3 million during fiscal 2009, 2008, and fiscal 2007, respectively. The Company expects its capital expenditures in fiscal 2010 to be between $15 million and $20 million and such expenditures are projected to increase moderately thereafter.  

The Company intends to pursue acquisitions that present opportunities consistent with the Company’s business direction. The Company regularly engages in discussions with respect to potential acquisitions and investments. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to consummate an agreement with respect to any future acquisition. The Company’s acquisition strategy may require substantial capital, and no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to raise any necessary funds on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company incurs additional debt to finance acquisitions, total interest expense will increase.  

If the Company has excess cash, it may consider methods by which it can provide cash to its debt or equity holders through a dividend, prepayment of indebtedness, repurchase of stock, or other means. In October 2008, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $50 million, in the aggregate, of the Company’s common stock. During fiscal 2009, the Company repurchased a total of 494,100 shares at an aggregate cost of $15.2 million. Whether the Company undertakes additional stock repurchases or other aforementioned activities will depend on prevailing market conditions, the Company’s liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. In addition, the Company may issue additional debt if prevailing market conditions are favorable to doing so.  

The Company’s ability to make scheduled interest payments on, or to refinance, the Company’s indebtedness, or to fund non-acquisition related capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend on the Company’s ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. Based on its current levels of operations and anticipated cost savings and operating improvements and absent any disruptive events, management believes that internally generated funds and borrowings available under our revolving loan facility should provide sufficient resources to finance its operations, non-acquisition related capital expenditures, research and development efforts and long-term indebtedness obligations through at least fiscal 2010. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future  

40  

Table of Contents 

 borrowings will be available to the Company under the senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable it to pay its indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs. The Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. Also, to the extent the Company accelerates its growth plans, consummates acquisitions or has lower than anticipated sales or increases in expenses, the Company may also need to raise additional capital. In particular, increased working capital needs occur whenever the Company consummates acquisitions or experiences strong incremental demand. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  

New Accounting Standards  

New Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2009  

In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued authoritative guidance codifying GAAP. While the guidance was not intended to change GAAP, it did change the way the Company references these accounting principles in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This guidance was effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after September 15, 2009. The Company’s adoption of this authoritative guidance as of September 30, 2009 changed how it references GAAP in its disclosures.  

In May 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance establishing general standards of accounting and disclosures for events that occur after the balance sheet date, but before financial statements are issued. Application of this authoritative guidance was required for interim or annual financial periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company’s adoption of this guidance during fiscal 2009 resulted in additional disclosures. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In September 2006, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with GAAP, and also expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The adoption of this guidance for financial assets and liabilities effective October 1, 2008 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In addition, at various dates the FASB has issued authoritative guidance requiring additional disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments and derivatives and hedging activities that were effective for the Company during fiscal 2009. The Company’s adoption of this guidance resulted in additional disclosures. See Notes 17 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

New Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted  

In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance requiring assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, contingent consideration, and certain acquired contingencies to be measured at their fair values as of the date of acquisition. This guidance also requires that acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs be recognized separately from the business combination. This authoritative guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and is therefore applicable to the Company effective October 1, 2009. The implementation of this guidance will affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position after its effective date only to the extent it completes applicable business combinations subsequent to the effective date and, therefore, the impact of this guidance cannot be determined prior to the completion of any applicable business combination transactions.  

Additional Disclosure Required by Indenture  

Separate financial statements of TransDigm Inc. are not presented since TD Group has no operations or significant assets separate from its investment in TransDigm Inc. and since the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and the New 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes are guaranteed by TD Group and all direct and indirect domestic   

41  

Table of Contents 

 restricted subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. As of September 30, 2009, two subsidiaries of TransDigm that are not obligated to guarantee the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and the New 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes are wholly-owned, foreign subsidiaries that have inconsequential assets, liabilities and equity.  

 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK