Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF 2013 FINANCIAL RESULTS

During 2013, we continued to face certain headwinds impacting our business. In our Risk Solutions segment, these headwinds included economic weakness in continental Europe and a significant decline in investment income due to lower short-term interest rates globally. In our HR Solutions segment, these headwinds included price compression in our benefits administration business and competitive pressures across continental Europe.

The following is a summary of our 2013 financial results:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We focus on four key non-GAAP metrics that we communicate to shareholders: grow organically, expand adjusted margins, increase adjusted diluted earnings per share, and increase free cash flow. The following is our measure of performance against these four metrics for 2013:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Adjusted diluted earnings per share from net income attributable to Aon's shareholders, a non-GAAP measure as defined under the caption "Review of Consolidated Results — Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share," was $4.89 

30

per share in 2013, an increase of $0.68 per share, or 16%, from $4.21 per share in 2012. The increase demonstrates solid operational performance and effective capital management despite a difficult business environment, as well as the impact of $1.1 billion of share repurchases during 2013.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2013, we continued to execute against the strategic goals of the Redomestication. We believe the Redomestication will continue to strengthen our long term strategy by:

•Enabling Risk Solutions to deliver superior value to our clients by executing our Aon Broking strategy;

•Expanding the HR Solutions portfolio penetration, especially within consulting, which already has a significant presence in the U.K. and EMEA;

•Enhancing our Risk Solutions' relationship with, and integration into, London markets;

•Increasing our connection to emerging markets, accelerating our ability to grow there, and further aligning our strategy with underwriters and carriers who are also targeting these high growth markets;

•Strengthening our international brand awareness and positioning as a global firm;

•Advancing our talent strategy through better development, retention and acquisition of professional talent, with a special focus on London's insurance talent;

•Optimizing our fiscal planning and capital allocation and reducing our global tax rate in a manner that provides us with the increased financial flexibility to properly invest in our growth.

REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

General

In our discussion of operating results, we sometimes refer to certain non-GAAP supplemental information derived from consolidated financial information specifically related to organic revenue growth, adjusted operating margin, adjusted diluted earnings per share, free cash flow, and the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on operating results.

Organic Revenue

We use supplemental information related to organic revenue to help us and our investors evaluate business growth from existing operations. Organic revenue is a non-GAAP measure and excludes the impact of foreign exchange rate changes, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, fiduciary investment income, reimbursable expenses, and certain unusual items. Supplemental information related to organic revenue growth represents a measure not in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Industry peers provide similar supplemental information about their revenue performance, although they may not make identical adjustments. Reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure, organic revenue growth percentages to the reported Commissions, fees and other revenue growth percentages, has been provided in the "Review by Segment" caption, below.

Adjusted Operating Margin

We use adjusted operating margin as a non-GAAP measure of core operating performance of our Risk Solutions and HR Solutions segments. Adjusted operating margin excludes the impact of certain items, including restructuring charges, intangible asset amortization and headquarters relocation costs. This supplemental information related to adjusted operating margin represents a measure not in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto.

31

A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the reported operating margin is as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes unallocated expenses and the elimination of inter-segment revenue.

Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share

We also use adjusted diluted earnings per share as a non-GAAP measure of our core operating performance. Adjusted diluted earnings per share excludes the impact of restructuring charges, intangible asset amortization, headquarters relocation costs, Hewitt related costs, and other unusual items, along with related income taxes. This supplemental information related to adjusted diluted earnings per share represents a measure not in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto.

32

Reconciliations of this non-GAAP measure to the reported diluted earnings per share are as follows (in millions except per share data):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Free Cash Flow

We use free cash flow, defined as cash flow provided by operations minus capital expenditures, as a non-GAAP measure of our core operating performance. This supplemental information related to free cash flow represents a measure not in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. The use of this non-GAAP measure does not imply or represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures.

33

Reconciliations of this non-GAAP measure to Cash flow provided by operations are as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Impact of Foreign Exchange Rate Fluctuations

Because we conduct business in more than 120 countries, foreign exchange rate fluctuations have a significant impact on our business. In comparison to the U.S. dollar, foreign exchange rate movements may be significant and may distort true period-to-period comparisons of changes in revenue or pretax income. Therefore, to give financial statement users meaningful information about our operations, we have provided an illustration of the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our financial results. The methodology used to calculate this impact isolates the impact of the change in currencies between periods by translating last year's revenue, expenses and net income, using current year's foreign exchange rates. Using this illustrative methodology, currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of $0.03, $0.06, and favorable impact of $0.04 during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, on adjusted net income per diluted share, when we translate prior year results at current year end foreign exchange rates. These translations are performed for comparative and illustrative purposes only and do not impact the accounting policy or practices for amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Summary of Results

Our consolidated results of operations follow (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated Results for 2013 Compared to 2012 

Revenue

Revenue increased by $301 million, or 3%, to $11.8 billion in 2013, compared to $11.5 billion in 2012. The increase was driven by organic revenue growth of 3% in the Risk Solutions segment and 3% in the HR Solutions segment. Organic growth in the Risk Solutions segment was driven by solid growth across both Retail and Reinsurance. Strong growth in Latin America, solid new business growth in U.S. Retail and strong management of the renewal book portfolio across the region drove organic revenue growth in the Americas. International organic revenue growth was driven by strong growth in Asia, emerging markets and New Zealand. Reinsurance organic growth was driven by growth in international treaty placements. Organic growth in the HR Solutions segment was driven by strong growth in health care exchanges, growth in investment and compensation consulting and strong growth in health care exchanges, modest growth in benefits administration and HR BPO, partially offset by a modest decline in actuarial services in retirement consulting.

34

Compensation and Benefits

Compensation and benefits increased $236 million, or 4%, compared to 2012. The increase was driven by an increase in expense associated with 3% organic revenue growth, partially offset by the impact of realization of benefits from restructuring initiatives.

Other General Expenses

Other general expenses remained flat in 2013 compared to 2012 due largely to a decrease in intangible amortization of $28 million, decreased costs related to the headquarters relocation of $19 million, a $43.5 million favorable impact from settlement of a non-recurring one-time legal matter and restructuring savings, partially offset by a $76 million increase in formal restructuring costs and $20 million of legacy, non-recurring claims handling charges.

Interest Income

Interest income represents income earned on operating cash balances and other income-producing investments. It does not include interest earned on funds held on behalf of clients. Interest income decreased $1 million, or 10%, from 2012, due to lower average interest rates globally and lower average cash balances.

Interest Expense

Interest expense, which represents the cost of our worldwide debt obligations, decreased $18 million, or 8%, from 2012. The decrease in interest expense reflects a decline in the average rate on total debt outstanding.

Other Income 

Other income increased $66 million from $2 million in 2012 to $68 million in 2013. Other income in 2013 includes $28 million in gains on investments, equity earnings of $20 million, foreign exchange gains of $13 million, and $10 million in gains on disposal of businesses, partially offset by a $10 million loss from derivatives. Other income in 2012 includes equity earnings of $13 million and $7 million in gains on investments, partially offset by foreign exchange losses of $19 million. 

Income before Income Taxes

Income before income taxes was $1.5 billion in 2013, an increase of $158 million, or 11%, from $1.4 billion in 2012.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate on net income was 25.4% in 2013 and 26.1% in 2012. The 2013 rate reflects certain discrete tax adjustments and changes in the geographic distribution of income. The 2012 rate reflects the release of a valuation allowance relating to foreign tax credits and net operating losses, partially offset by the impact of a U.K. tax rate change. The effective tax rate is expected to decrease over time. 

Net Income

Net income increased to $1.1 billion ($3.53 diluted net income per share) in 2013, compared to $1.0 billion ($2.99 diluted net income per share) in 2012.

Consolidated Results for 2012 Compared to 2011 

Revenue

Revenue increased by $227 million, or 2%, to $11.5 billion in 2012, compared to $11.3 billion in 2011. The increase was driven by organic revenue growth of 4% for both the Risk Solutions and HR Solutions segments. Organic growth in the Risk Solutions segment was driven by solid growth across all regions, including strong new business growth for U.S. retail and continued management of the renewal book portfolio in the Americas. International organic revenue growth was driven by strong growth in Asia and in emerging markets, as well as modest growth in continental Europe. Reinsurance organic growth was driven by strong growth across global treaty, driven by favorable pricing in the near-term and new business growth, partially offset by a significant decline in capital market transactions and advisory business. Organic growth in the HR Solutions segment was driven by growth in investment consulting, pension administration services, talent and rewards, and communications consulting, as well as new client wins in HR BPO, partially offset by a modest decline in benefits administration.

35

Compensation and Benefits

Compensation and benefits increased $142 million, or 2%, compared to 2011. The increase was driven by 4% organic revenue growth, partially offset by the impact of realization of benefits from restructuring initiatives.

Other General Expenses

Other general expenses increased by $85 million, or 3%, in 2012 compared to 2011. The increase was due largely to an increase in intangible amortization of $61 million and increased costs related to the headquarters relocation of $21 million. These increased costs were partially offset by lower restructuring charges of $12 million and restructuring savings.

Interest Income

Interest income represents income earned on operating cash balances and other income-producing investments. It does not include interest earned on funds held on behalf of clients. Interest income decreased $8 million, or 44%, from 2011, due to lower average interest rates globally.

Interest Expense

Interest expense, which represents the cost of our worldwide debt obligations, decreased $17 million, or 7%, from 2011. The decrease was due primarily to lower average debt outstanding during the year, as well as the use of commercial paper to meet short-term working capital needs.

Other Income 

Other income in 2012 of $2 million decreased $17 million from 2011. The decrease in income was the result of foreign exchange gains (losses) that were $26 million of additional loss in 2012 and an $11 million decrease in gains related to long-term investments, partially offset by $6 million of additional income from equity method investments and $19 million loss on extinguishment of debt in 2011.

Income before Income Taxes

Income before income taxes was $1.4 billion, flat compared to $1.4 billion in 2011.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate on income was 26.1% in 2012 and 27.3% in 2011. The 2012 rate reflects the release of a valuation allowance relating to foreign tax credits and net operating losses, partially offset by the impact of a U.K. tax rate change. The 2011 rate reflects the release of a valuation allowance relating to foreign tax credits offset partially by net unfavorable deferred tax adjustments in non-U.S. jurisdictions including the impact of a U.K. tax rate change. 

Net Income

Net income remained at $1.0 billion ($2.99 diluted net income per share) in 2012 compared to $1.0 billion ($2.87 diluted net income per share) in 2011.

Restructuring Initiatives

Aon Hewitt Restructuring Plan

On October 14, 2010, we announced a global restructuring plan in connection with the acquisition of Hewitt. The Aon Hewitt Plan is intended to streamline operations across the combined Aon Hewitt organization, the Health & Benefits organization and shared services and facility rationalization across the company. The Aon Hewitt Plan included approximately 2,960 job eliminations. The Aon Hewitt Plan resulted in cumulative costs of $429 million through the end of the plan, which closed in 2013. The costs incurred consisted of approximately $266 million in employee termination costs and approximately $163 million in real estate rationalization across the company. 

For the $429 million of total costs, approximately $174 million, $98 million, and $105 million were incurred in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Charges related to the restructuring are included in Compensation and benefits and Other general expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. The plan was closed December 2013.

36

The following summarizes the restructuring and related costs, by type, that were incurred related to the Aon Hewitt Plan (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following summarizes the restructuring and related expenses for both reportable segments that were incurred related to the Aon Hewitt Plan (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Costs included in the Risk Solutions segment are due to the inclusion of the health and benefits consulting business in the Risk Solutions segment, which was transferred from HR Solutions to Risk Solutions effective January 1, 2012. Costs incurred in 2011 in the HR Solutions segment of $41 million related to the health and benefits consulting business have been reclassified and presented in the Risk Solutions segment.

We estimate that we realized approximately $329 million and $236 million of cost savings before any reinvestment in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Approximately $260 million and $69 million of the costs savings before reinvestment in 2013 was realized in the HR Solutions segment and Risk Solutions segment, respectively. 

LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

Liquidity

Executive Summary

We believe that our balance sheet and strong cash flow provide us with financial flexibility to create long-term value for our shareholders. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flow from operations, available cash reserves and debt capacity available under various credit facilities. Our primary uses of liquidity are operating expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, restructuring initiatives, funding pension obligations and shareholder dividends.

Cash on our balance sheet includes funds available for general corporate purposes, as well as amounts restricted as to their use. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown together with uncollected insurance premiums in Fiduciary assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, with a corresponding amount in Fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds cannot be used for general corporate purposes, and are not a source of liquidity for us.

Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investments increased $363 million to $1.0 billion in 2013. During 2013, cash flow from operating activities increased $214 million to $1.6 billion. Additional sources of funds in 2013 included $93 million in sales of long-term investments and issuance of debt net of net of repayments of $227 million. The primary uses of funds in 2013 included share repurchases of $1.1 billion, cash contributions to our major defined benefit plans of $523 million, capital expenditures of $229 million, dividends paid to shareholders of $212 million, and net purchases of short term investments of $174 million.

Our investment grade rating is important to us for a number of reasons, the most important of which is preserving our financial flexibility. If our credit ratings were downgraded to below investment grade, the interest expense on any outstanding balances on our credit facilities would increase and we could incur additional requests for pension contributions. To manage unforeseen situations, we have committed credit lines of approximately $1.3 billion and we manage our business to ensure we maintain our current investment grade ratings. At December 31, 2013, we had no borrowings on these credit lines.

37

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities in 2013 increased $214 million to $1.6 billion compared to $1.4 billion in 2012. The primary driver of the cash provided by operating activities was net income of $1.1 billion and adjustments for non-cash items of $856 million, primarily related to depreciation, amortization, and stock compensation expense. These items were partially offset by pension contributions of $523 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was favorably impacted by a $43.5 million settlement of a non-recurring, one-time legal matter. Pension contributions during 2013 were $523 million compared to $638 million in 2012. In 2014, we expect to contribute $385 million to our pension plans, with the majority attributable to non-U.S. pension plans, which are subject to changes in foreign exchange rates. In 2014, we also expect to have cash payments related to restructuring plans of $92 million.

We expect cash generated by operations for 2013 to be sufficient to service our debt and contractual obligations, fund the cash requirements of our restructuring programs, finance capital expenditures, continue purchases of shares under our share repurchase program, and continue to pay dividends to our shareholders. Although cash from operations is expected to be sufficient to service these obligations, we have the ability to borrow under our credit facilities to accommodate any timing differences in cash flows. We have committed credit facilities of approximately $1.3 billion, of which all was available at December 31, 2013. We can access these facilities on a same day or next day basis. Additionally, under current market conditions, we believe that we could access capital markets to obtain debt financing for longer-term funding, if needed.

Investing Activities

Cash flow used for investing activities in 2013 was $339 million. The primary drivers of the cash flow used for investing activities were capital expenditures of $229 million, net purchases of short term investments of $174 million, acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired of $54 million, partially offset by sales of long term investments of $93 million.

 Cash flow provided by investing activities in 2012 was $177 million. The primary drivers of the cash flow provided by investing activities were sales of long term investments for $178 million and net sales of short term investments for $440 million, partially offset by acquisitions of $160 million, and capital expenditures of $269 million.

Cash flow used for investing activities in 2011 was $186 million. The primary drivers of the cash flow used for investing activities were acquisitions of $97 million, primarily related to the acquisition of Glenrand, net purchases of non-fiduciary short-term investments for $8 million, and capital expenditures of $241 million, partially offset by the sale of businesses for $9 million, consisting of proceeds from several small dispositions, and sales, net of purchases, of long-term investments for $160 million.

Financing Activities

Cash flow used for financing activities during 2013 was $1.0 billion. The primary drivers of the cash flow used for financing activities were share repurchases of $1.1 billion and dividends paid to shareholders of $212 million, partially offset by issuances of debt, net of repayments, of $227 million and proceeds from the exercise of share options and issuance of shares purchased through the employee stock purchase plan of $98 million.

Cash flow used for financing activities during 2012 was $1.6 billion. The primary drivers of the cash flow used for financing activities were share repurchases of $1.1 billion and dividends paid to shareholders of $204 million, partially offset by issuances of debt, net of repayments, of $344 million and proceeds from the exercise of share options and issuance of shares purchased through the employee stock purchase plan of $118 million.

Cash flow used for financing activities during 2011 was $896 million. The primary drivers of the cash flow used for financing activities were share repurchases of $828 million and dividends paid to shareholders of $200 million, and dividends paid to, and purchase of shares from non-controlling interests were $54 million, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of share options and issuance of shares purchased through the employee stock purchase plan of $201 million.

Cash and Investments

At December 31, 2013, our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were $1.0 billion, an increase of $363 million compared to the balance of $637 million as of December 31, 2012. Of the total balance as of December 31, 2013, $214 million was restricted as to its use, which was comprised of $126 million of operating funds in the U.K. as required by the FCA and $88 million held as collateral for various business purposes. At December 31, 2013, $516 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were held in the U.S. and $484 million were held in other countries. Of the total balance as of December 31, 2012, $200 million was restricted as to its use, which was comprised of $124 million of operating funds in the U.K. as required by the FCA and $76 million held as collateral for various business purposes. At December 31, 2012, $138 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were held in the U.S. and $499 million was held in 

38

other countries. Due to differences in tax rates, the repatriation of funds from certain countries into the U.S., if repatriated, could have an unfavorable tax impact.

In our capacity as an insurance broker or agent, we collect premiums from insureds and, after deducting our commission, remit the premiums to the respective insurance underwriter. We also collect claims or refunds from underwriters on behalf of insureds, which are then returned to the insureds. Unremitted insurance premiums and claims are held by us in a fiduciary capacity. In addition, some of our outsourcing agreements require us to hold funds on behalf of clients to pay obligations on their behalf. The levels of fiduciary assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly, depending on when we collect the premiums, claims and refunds, make payments to underwriters and insureds, collect funds from clients and make payments on their behalf, and foreign currency movements. Fiduciary assets, because of their nature, are required to be invested in very liquid securities with highly-rated, credit-worthy financial institutions. In our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, the amount we report for Fiduciary assets and Fiduciary liabilities are equal. Our Fiduciary assets included cash and investments of $3.8 billion and $4.0 billion and fiduciary receivables of $8.1 billion and $8.2 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. While we earn investment income on the fiduciary assets held in cash and investments, the cash and investments are not owned by us, and cannot be used for general corporate purposes.

As disclosed in Note 15 "Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the majority of our investments carried at fair value are money market funds. Money market funds are carried at cost as an approximation of fair value. Consistent with market convention, we consider cost a practical and expedient measure of fair value. These money market funds are held throughout the world with various financial institutions. We do not believe that there are any market liquidity issues that would materially impact the fair value of these investments.

As of December 31, 2013, our investments in money market funds and highly liquid debt instruments had a fair value of $2.1 billion and are reported as Short-term investments or Fiduciary assets in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position depending on their nature and initial maturity.

The following table summarizes our Fiduciary assets and non-fiduciary Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investments as of December 31, 2013 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Share Repurchase Program

In April 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program under which up to $5 billion of Class A Ordinary Shares may be repurchased ("2012 Share Repurchase Program"). Under this program, shares may be repurchased through the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, from time to time, based on prevailing market conditions, and will be funded from available capital.

During 2013, the Company repurchased 16.8 million shares at an average price per share of $65.65 for a total cost of $1.1 billion under the 2012 Share Repurchase Program. During 2012, the Company repurchased 21.6 million shares at an average price per share of $52.16 for a total cost of $1.1 billion under the 2012 Share Repurchase Program and the previously completed 2010 Share Repurchase Program. The remaining authorized amount for share repurchase under the 2012 Share Repurchase Program is approximately $2.9 billion. Since the inception of the 2012 Share Repurchase Program, we repurchased a total of 36.3 million shares for an aggregate cost of $2.1 billion. 

For information regarding share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of 2012, see Item 5 — "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" as previously described.

39

Dividends

During 2013, 2012, and 2011, we paid dividends on our Class A Ordinary Shares of $212 million, $204 million, and $200 million, respectively. Dividends paid per Class A Ordinary Share were $0.68, $0.62, and $0.60 for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. 

Redomestication

As a U.K. incorporated company, we must have "distributable reserves" to make share repurchases or pay dividends to shareholders. Distributable reserves may be created through the earnings of the U.K. parent company and, amongst other methods, through a reduction in share capital approved by the English Companies Court. Distributable reserves are not linked to a U.S. GAAP reported amount (e.g., retained earnings). On April 4, 2012, we received approval from the English Companies Court to reduce our share premium and in connection with that approval, recognized distributable reserves in the amount of $8.0 billion. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had distributable reserves of $5.9 billion and $7.0 billion, respectively.

Borrowings

Total debt at December 31, 2013 was $4.4 billion, which represents an increase of $224 million compared to December 31, 2012. During 2013, the €500 million ($685 million) debt securities due July 2014 were classified as Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as the date of maturity is less than one year.

On March 8, 2013, we issued $90 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.250% Notes Due 2042.

On May 21, 2013, we issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 4.45% Notes Due 2043. The 4.45% Notes Due 2043 were issued by Aon plc and fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Aon Corporation. We used the proceeds of the issuance to repay commercial paper borrowings and for general corporate purposes. 

On November 21, 2013, the Company issued $350 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.00% Notes Due 2023. The 4.00% Notes Due 2023 were issued by Aon plc and fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Aon Corporation. The Company used the proceeds of the issuance to repay commercial paper borrowings and for general corporate purposes.

Our total debt as a percentage of total capital attributable to Aon shareholders was 35.0% at both December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012.

Credit Facilities

At December 31, 2013, we have a five-year $400 million unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. ("U.S. Facility") that expires in 2017. The U.S. facility is for general corporate purposes, including commercial paper support. Additionally, we have a five-year €650 million ($890 million at December 31, 2013 exchange rate) Euro Facility available, which expires in October 2015. At December 31, 2013, we had no borrowings under either of these credit facilities.

On April 29, 2013, we amended our Euro Facility agreement to add Aon plc as an additional borrower.

For both our U.S. Facility and Euro Facility, the two most significant covenants require us to maintain a ratio of consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), adjusted for Hewitt related transaction costs and up to $50 million in non-recurring cash charges ("Adjusted EBITDA") to consolidated interest expense and a ratio of consolidated debt to Adjusted EBITDA. For both facilities, the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense must be at least 4 to 1. For the Euro Facility, the ratio of consolidated debt to Adjusted EBITDA must not exceed 3 to 1. For the U.S. Facility, the ratio of consolidated debt to Adjusted EBITDA must not exceed the lower of (a) 3.25 to 1.00 or (b) the greater of (i) 3.00 to 1.00 or (ii) the lowest ratio of consolidated debt to Adjusted EBITDA then set forth in the Euro Facility or Aon's $450 million Term Loan Facility. We were in compliance with these and all other covenants during 2013.

Shelf Registration Statement

On August 31, 2012, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, registering the offer and sale from time to time of an indeterminate amount of, among other securities, debt, securities, preference shares, Class A Ordinary Shares and convertible securities. The availability of any potential liquidity for these types of securities is dependent on investor demand, market conditions and other factors. Our March 2013 offering of $90 million of 4.25% Notes Due 2042, May 2013 offering of $250 million of 4.45% Notes Due 2043, and November 2013 offering of $350 million of 4.00% Notes Due 2023 utilized this registration statement. 

40

Rating Agency Ratings

The major rating agencies' ratings of our debt at February 18, 2014 appear in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2013, Standard & Poor's upgraded their rating of our senior long-term debt from BBB+ to A-. Additionally, Moody's Investor Services changed their outlook from stable to positive. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper would increase our borrowing costs, reduce or eliminate our access to capital, reduce our financial flexibility, increase our commercial paper interest rates or possibly restrict our access to the commercial paper market altogether, or may impact future pension contribution requirements.

Letters of Credit and Other Guarantees

We had total letters of credit ("LOCs") outstanding for approximately $71 million at December 31, 2013, compared to $74 million at December 31, 2012. These letters of credit cover the beneficiaries related to certain of our U.S. and Canadian non-qualified pension plan schemes and secure deductible retentions for our own workers compensation program. We also have issued LOCs to cover contingent payments for taxes and other business obligations to third parties, and other guarantees for miscellaneous purposes at our international subsidiaries.

We have certain contractual contingent guarantees for premium payments owed by clients to certain insurance companies. Costs associated with these guarantees, to the extent estimable and probable, are provided in our allowance for doubtful accounts. The maximum exposure with respect to such contractual contingent guarantees was approximately $98 million at December 31, 2013 compared to $104 million at December 31, 2012.

Adequacy of Liquidity Sources

We believe that cash flows from operations and available credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including principal and interest payments on debt obligations, capital expenditures, pension contributions, cash restructuring costs, and anticipated working capital requirements, for the foreseeable future. We do not have exposure related to off balance sheet arrangements. Our cash flows from operations, borrowing availability and overall liquidity are subject to risks and uncertainties. See Item 1, "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" and Item 1A, "Risk Factors."

Contractual Obligations

Summarized in the table below are our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2013 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Pension and other postretirement benefit plan obligations include estimates of our minimum funding requirements, pursuant to ERISA and other regulations and minimum funding requirements agreed with the trustees of our U.K. pension plans. Additional amounts may be agreed to with, or required by, the U.K. pension plan trustees. Nonqualified pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are based on estimated future benefit payments. We may make additional discretionary contributions.

41

(2)In 2013, our principal U.K subsidiary agreed with the trustees of one of the U.K. plans to contribute an average of$11 million per year to that pension plan for the next three years. The trustees of the plan have certain rights to request that our U.K. subsidiary advance an amount equal to an actuarially determined winding-up deficit. As of December 31, 2013, the estimated winding-up deficit was £150 million ($243 million). The trustees of the plan have accepted in practice the agreed-upon schedule of contributions detailed above and have not requested the winding-up deficit be paid.

(3)Purchase obligations are defined as agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding on us, and that specifies all significant terms, including what is to be purchased, at what price and the approximate timing of the transaction. Most of our purchase obligations are related to purchases of information technology services or other service contracts.

(4)Excludes $34 million of unfunded commitments related to an investment in a limited partnership due to our inability to reasonably estimate the period(s) when the limited partnership will request funding.

(5)Excludes $164 million of liabilities for uncertain tax positions due to our inability to reasonably estimate the period(s) when cash settlements will be made.

Financial Condition

At December 31, 2013, our net assets of $8.2 billion, representing total assets minus total liabilities, increased from $7.8 billion at December 31, 2012. The increase was due primarily to Net income of $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013, a decrease in Accumulated other comprehensive loss of $236 million related primarily to a decrease in the post-retirement benefit obligation, partially offset by share repurchases of $1.1 billion and dividends of $212 million. Working capital decreased by $113 million from $1.0 billion at December 31, 2012 to $919 million at December 31, 2013.

Equity

Equity at December 31, 2013 was $8.2 billion, an increase of $390 million from December 31, 2012. The increase resulted primarily from Net income of $1.1 billion, a decrease in Accumulated other comprehensive loss of $236 million, partially offset by share repurchases of $1.1 billion and $212 million of dividends to shareholders. 

The $236 million decrease in Accumulated other comprehensive loss from December 31, 2012, primarily reflects the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a decrease of $293 million in net post-retirement benefit obligations,

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

REVIEW BY SEGMENT

General

We serve clients through the following segments:

•Risk Solutions acts as an advisor and insurance and reinsurance broker, helping clients manage their risks, via consultation, as well as negotiation and placement of insurance risk with insurance carriers through our global distribution network.

•HR Solutions partners with organizations to solve their most complex benefits, talent and related financial challenges, and improve business performance by designing, implementing, communicating and administering a wide range of human capital, retirement, investment management, health care, compensation and talent management strategies.

42

Risk Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The demand for property and casualty insurance generally rises as the overall level of economic activity increases and generally falls as such activity decreases, affecting both the commissions and fees generated by our brokerage business. The economic activity that impacts property and casualty insurance is described as exposure units, and is most closely correlated with employment levels, corporate revenue and asset values. During 2013, we continued to see improvement in pricing on average globally; however, we would still consider this to be a "soft market," which began in 2007. In a soft market, premium rates flatten or decrease, along with commission revenues, due to increased competition for market share among insurance carriers or increased underwriting capacity. Changes in premiums have a direct and potentially material impact on the insurance brokerage industry, as commission revenues are generally based on a percentage of the premiums paid by insureds. In 2013, pricing showed signs of stabilization and improvement in our retail brokerage product lines.

Additionally, beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2013, we faced difficult conditions as a result of unprecedented disruptions in the global economy, the repricing of credit risk and the deterioration of the financial markets. Weak global economic conditions have reduced our customers' demand for our retail brokerage and reinsurance brokerage products, which have had a negative impact on our operational results.

Risk Solutions generated approximately 66% of our consolidated total revenues in 2013. Revenues are generated primarily through fees paid by clients, commissions and fees paid by insurance and reinsurance companies, and investment income on funds held on behalf of clients. Our revenues vary from quarter to quarter throughout the year as a result of the timing of our clients' policy renewals, the net effect of new and lost business, the timing of services provided to our clients, and the income we earn on investments, which is heavily influenced by short-term interest rates.

We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete with many retail insurance brokerage and agency firms, as well as with individual brokers, agents, and direct writers of insurance coverage. Specifically, we address the highly specialized product development and risk management needs of commercial enterprises, professional groups, insurance companies, governments, health care providers, and non-profit groups, among others; provide affinity products for professional liability, life, disability income, and personal lines for individuals, associations, and businesses; provide products and services via GRIP Solutions; provide reinsurance services to insurance and reinsurance companies and other risk assumption entities by acting as brokers or intermediaries on all classes of reinsurance; provide capital management transaction and advisory products and services, including mergers and acquisitions and other financial advisory services, capital raising, contingent capital financing, insurance-linked securitizations and derivative applications; provide managing underwriting to independent agents and brokers as well as corporate clients; provide risk consulting, actuarial, loss prevention, and administrative services to businesses and consumers; and manage captive insurance companies.

Revenue

Commissions, fees and other revenue for Risk Solutions were as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 ______________________________________________

(1) Includes the U.K., Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific.

In 2013, commissions, fees and other revenue increased $167 million, or 2%, compared to 2012 due to 3% organic revenue growth, partially offset by a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates. Organic revenue growth was driven primarily by strong growth in Latin America, Asia and emerging markets, solid growth in U.S. Retail, as well as growth in treaty placements in the Reinsurance business. 

43

Reconciliation of organic revenue growth to reported commissions, fees and other revenue growth for 2013 versus 2012 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 ______________________________________________

(1) Includes the U.K., Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific.

 Retail brokerage Commissions, fees and other revenue increased 3% in 2013 driven by 4% organic revenue growth, reflecting revenue growth in both the Americas and International business, partially offset by a 1% impact from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates in the Americas.

 Americas Commissions, fees and other revenue increased 4% in 2013 reflecting 5% organic revenue growth driven by strong growth in Latin America and new business generation in U.S. Retail, partially offset by a 1% impact from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates.

 International Commissions, fees and other revenue increased 2% in 2013 reflecting 2% organic revenue growth driven by strong growth across emerging markets, New Zealand and Asia, partially offset by a decline in certain countries across continental Europe. 

 Reinsurance Commissions, fees and other revenue was flat compared to the prior year due to 2% organic revenue growth driven primarily by net new business growth in treaty placements, partially offset by a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates and a 1% unfavorable impact from acquisitions, net of divestitures. 

Operating Income

Operating income increased $47 million, or 3%, from 2012 to $1.5 billion in 2013. In 2013, operating income margins in this segment were 19.8%, up 20 basis points from 19.6% in 2012. Operating margin improvement was driven by revenue growth and savings related to the restructuring programs, which was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and a decline in fiduciary investment income. 

HR Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our HR Solutions segment generated approximately 34% of our consolidated total revenues in 2013 and provides a broad range of human capital services, as follows:

•Retirement specializes in global actuarial services, defined contribution consulting, tax and ERISA consulting, and pension administration.

•Compensation focuses on compensatory advisory/counsel including: compensation planning design, executive reward strategies, salary survey and benchmarking, market share studies and sales force effectiveness, with special expertise in the financial services and technology industries.

•Strategic Human Capital delivers advice to complex global organizations on talent, change and organizational effectiveness issues, including talent strategy and acquisition, executive on-boarding, performance management, leadership assessment and development, communication strategy, workforce training and change management.

44

•Investment consulting advises public and private companies, other institutions and trustees on developing and maintaining investment programs across a broad range of plan types, including defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans, endowments and foundations.

•Benefits Administration applies our HR expertise primarily through defined benefit (pension), defined contribution (401(k)), and health and welfare administrative services. Our model replaces the resource-intensive processes once required to administer benefit plans with more efficient, effective, and less costly solutions.

•Exchanges is building and operating healthcare exchanges that provide employers with a cost effective alternative to traditional employee and retiree healthcare, while helping individuals select the insurance that best meets their needs.

•Human Resource Business Processing Outsourcing ("HR BPO") provides market-leading solutions to manage employee data; administer benefits, payroll and other human resources processes; and record and manage talent, workforce and other core HR process transactions as well as other complementary services such as flexible spending, dependent audit and participant advocacy.

Beginning in late 2008, the disruption in the global credit markets and the deterioration of the financial markets created significant uncertainty in the marketplace. Weak economic conditions globally continued throughout 2013. The prolonged economic downturn is adversely impacting our clients' financial condition and therefore the levels of business activities in the industries and geographies where we operate. While we believe that the majority of our practices are well positioned to manage through this time, these challenges are reducing demand for some of our services and putting continued pressure on the pricing of those services, which is having an adverse effect on our new business and results of operations.

Revenue

Commissions, fees and other revenue were as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Commissions, fees and other revenue for HR Solutions increased $132 million, or 3%, in 2013 compared to 2012 due to 3% organic growth in commissions and fees in 2013.

Reconciliation of organic revenue growth to reported commissions, fees and other revenue growth for 2013 versus 2012 is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Consulting services revenue increased $41 million, or 3%, due primarily to organic revenue growth of 3%, driven by solid growth in investment and compensation consulting, pension administration services for certain project-related work, talent and rewards, and communication consulting, partially offset by a decline in actuarial services in retirement consulting.

 Outsourcing revenue increased $97 million, or 4%, due primarily to 3% organic revenue growth driven by strong growth in the health care exchanges, modest growth in benefits administration and HR BPO business, and 1% favorable impact from acquisitions, net of divestitures.

Operating Income

Operating income was $318 million, an increase of $29 million, or 10%, from 2012. This increase was primarily driven by organic revenue growth and savings related to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program, partially offset by continued 

45

investment in long-term growth opportunities. Margins in this segment for 2013 were 7.8%, an increase of 40 basis points from 7.4% in 2012 driven by strong organic revenue growth and savings related to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program, partially offset by continued investment in long-term growth opportunities.

Unallocated Income and Expense

A reconciliation of our operating income to income before income taxes is as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Unallocated operating expense includes corporate governance costs not allocated to the operating segments. Net unallocated expenses remained relatively flat in 2013 compared to 2012.

Interest income represents income earned on operating cash balances and other income-producing investments. It does not include interest earned on funds held on behalf of clients. Interest income decreased $1 million, or 10%, from 2012, due to lower average interest rates globally and lower average cash balances.

Interest expense, which represents the cost of our worldwide debt obligations, decreased $18 million, or 8%, from 2012, which is primarily due to a decline in the average interest rate on total debt outstanding.

Other income increased $66 million from $2 million in 2012 to $68 million in 2013. Other income in 2013 includes $28 million in gains on investments, equity earnings of $20 million, foreign exchange gains of $13 million, and $10 million in gains on disposal of businesses, partially offset by $10 million in losses from derivatives. Other income in 2012 includes equity earnings of $13 million and $7 million gains on investments, partially offset by foreign exchange losses of $19 million. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. To prepare these financial statements, we made estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect what we report as our assets and liabilities, what we disclose as contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented.

In accordance with our policies, we regularly evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including, but not limited to, those concerning revenue recognition, restructuring, pensions, goodwill and other intangible assets, contingencies, share-based payments, and income taxes, and base our estimates, assumptions, and judgments on our historical experience and on factors we believe reasonable under the circumstances. The results involve judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. If our assumptions or conditions change, the actual results we report may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant estimates, assumptions, and judgments we used to prepare these Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

Risk Solutions segment revenues primarily include insurance commissions and fees for services rendered and investment income on funds held on behalf of clients. Revenues are recognized when they are earned and realized or realizable. The Company considers revenues to be earned and realized or realizable when all of the following four conditions are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) the arrangement fee is fixed or determinable, (3) delivery or performance has occurred, and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. For brokerage commissions, revenue is typically recognized at the completion of the placement process, assuming all other criteria required to recognize revenue have been met. The placement process is typically considered complete on the effective date of the related policy. Commission revenues are recorded net of allowances for estimated policy cancellations, which are determined based on an evaluation of historical and current cancellation data.

46

HR Solutions segment revenues consist primarily of fees paid by clients for consulting advice and outsourcing contracts. Fees paid by clients for consulting services are typically charged on an hourly, project or fixed-fee basis. Revenues from time-and-materials or cost-plus arrangements are recognized as services are performed, assuming all other criteria to recognize revenue have been met. Revenues from fixed-fee contracts are recognized as services are provided using a proportional-performance model or at the completion of a project based on facts and circumstances of the client arrangement. Revenues from health care exchange arrangements are typically recognized upon successful enrollment of participants, net of a reserve for estimated cancellations, assuming all other criteria to recognize revenue have been met. Reimbursements received for out-of-pocket expenses are recorded as a component of revenues. The Company's outsourcing contracts typically have three-to-five year terms for benefits services and five-to-ten year terms for human resources business process outsourcing ("HR BPO") services. The Company recognizes revenues as services are performed, assuming all other criteria to recognize revenue have been met. The Company may also receive implementation fees from clients either up-front or over the ongoing services period as a component of the fee per participant. Lump sum implementation fees received from a client are typically deferred and recognized ratably over the ongoing contract services period. If a client terminates an outsourcing services arrangement prior to the end of the contract, a loss on the contract may be recorded, if necessary, and any remaining deferred implementation revenues would typically be recognized over the remaining service period through the termination date.

In connection with the Company's long-term outsourcing service agreements, highly customized implementation efforts are often necessary to set up clients and their human resource or benefit programs on the Company's systems and operating processes. For outsourcing services sold separately or accounted for as a separate unit of accounting, specific, incremental and direct costs of implementation incurred prior to the services commencing are generally deferred and amortized over the period that the related ongoing services revenue is recognized. Deferred costs are assessed for recoverability on a periodic basis to the extent the deferred cost exceeds related deferred revenue.

Restructuring

Workforce reduction costs

The method used to recognize workforce reduction costs depends on whether the benefits are provided under a one-time benefit arrangement or under an ongoing benefit arrangement. We account for relevant expenses as an ongoing benefit arrangement when we have an established termination benefit policy, statutory requirements dictate the termination benefit amounts, or we have an established pattern of providing similar termination benefits. The method to estimate the amount of termination benefits is based on the benefits available to the employees being terminated.

In most cases, workforce reductions are made pursuant to an ongoing arrangement. We recognize the workforce reduction costs related to restructuring activities resulting from an ongoing benefit arrangement when we identify the specific classification (or functions) and locations of the employees being terminated and notify the employees.

Although it occurs less frequently, when a workforce reduction is made pursuant to a one-time benefit arrangement, we recognize the workforce reduction costs related to restructuring activities resulting from a one-time benefit arrangement when we identify the specific classification (or functions) and locations of the employee(s) being terminated, notify the employee(s), and expect to terminate the employee(s) within the legally required notification period. When employees receive incentives to stay beyond the legally required notification period, we recognize the cost of their termination benefits over the remaining service period.

Lease termination costs

Where we have provided notice of cancellation pursuant to a lease agreement or vacated space and have no intention of reoccupying it, we recognize a loss and corresponding liability. The liability reflects our best estimate of the fair value of the future cash flows associated with the lease at the date we vacate the property or sign a sublease arrangement. To determine the loss and corresponding liability, we estimate sublease income based on all information that is reasonably available, which typically includes current market quotes for similar properties.

Useful lives on leasehold improvements or other assets associated with lease abandonments may be revised to reflect a shorter useful life than originally estimated, which results in accelerated depreciation.

Fair value concepts of severance arrangements and lease losses

Accounting guidance requires that the liabilities recorded related to our restructuring activities be measured at fair value.

Where material, we discount the lease loss calculations to arrive at their present value. Most workforce reductions happen over a short span of time and therefore no discounting is necessary. However, we may discount the termination benefit arrangement when we terminate employees who will provide no future service and we pay their severance over an extended 

47

period. The discount reflects our incremental borrowing rate, which matches the lifetime of the liability. Significant changes in the discount rate selected or the estimations of sublease income in the case of leases could impact the amounts recorded.

Other associated costs with restructuring activities

We recognize other costs associated with restructuring activities as they are incurred, including moving costs and consulting and legal fees.

Pensions

We sponsor defined benefit pension plans throughout the world. Our most significant plans are located in the U.S., the U.K., the Netherlands and Canada. Our significant U.S., U.K. and Canadian pension plans are closed to new entrants. We have ceased crediting future benefits relating to salary and service for our U.S., U.K. and Canadian plans.

Recognition of gains and losses and prior service

Certain changes in the value of the obligation and in the value of plan assets, which may occur due to various factors such as changes in the discount rate and actuarial assumptions, actual demographic experience and/or plan asset performance are not immediately recognized in net income. Such changes are recognized in Other comprehensive income and are amortized into net income as part of the net periodic benefit cost.

Unrecognized gains and losses that have been deferred in Other comprehensive income, as previously described, are amortized into Compensation and benefits expense as a component of periodic pension expense based on the average expected future service of active employees for our plans in the Netherlands and Canada, or the average life expectancy of the U.S. and U.K. plan members. After the effective date of the plan amendments to cease crediting future benefits relating to service, unrecognized gains and losses are also be based on the average life expectancy of members in the Canadian plans. We amortize any prior service expense or credits that arise as a result of plan changes over a period consistent with the amortization of gains and losses.

As of December 31, 2013, our pension plans have deferred losses that have not yet been recognized through income in the Consolidated Financial Statements. We amortize unrecognized actuarial losses outside of a corridor, which is defined as 10% of the greater of market-related value of plan assets or projected benefit obligation. To the extent not offset by future gains, incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense similarly until fully amortized.

The following table discloses our combined experience loss, the number of years over which we are amortizing the experience loss, and the estimated 2014 amortization of loss by country (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The unrecognized prior service cost at December 31, 2013 was $27 million in the U.K. and Other plans.

For the U.S. pension plans we use a market-related valuation of assets approach to determine the expected return on assets, which is a component of net periodic benefit cost recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income. This approach recognizes 20% of any gains or losses in the current year's value of market-related assets, with the remaining 80% spread over the next four years. As this approach recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of assets and therefore, our net periodic benefit cost will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recorded. As of December 31, 2013, the market-related value of assets was $1.8 billion. We do not use the market-related valuation approach to determine the funded status of the U.S. plans recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Instead, we record and present the funded status in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position based on the fair value of the plan assets. As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of plan assets was $1.9 billion.

Our non-U.S. plans use fair value to determine expected return on assets.

48

Rate of return on plan assets and asset allocation

The following table summarizes the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for future pension expense and the related target asset mix as of December 31, 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes investments in infrastructure, real estate, limited partnerships and hedge funds.

In determining the expected rate of return for the plan assets, we analyzed investment community forecasts and current market conditions to develop expected returns for each of the asset classes used by the plans. In particular, we surveyed multiple third party financial institutions and consultants to obtain long-term expected returns on each asset class, considered historical performance data by asset class over long periods, and weighted the expected returns for each asset class by target asset allocations of the plans.

The U.S. pension plan asset allocation is based on approved allocations following adopted investment guidelines. The actual asset allocation at December 31, 2013 was 69% equity and 31% fixed income securities for the qualified plan.

The investment policy for each U.K. and non-U.S. pension plans is generally determined by the plans' trustees. Because there are several pension plans maintained in the U.K. and non-U.S. category, our target allocation presents a range of the target allocation of each plan. Further, target allocations are subject to change. As of December 31, 2013, the U.K. and non-U.S. plans were invested between 30% and 50% in equity and between 50% and 70% in fixed income securities.

Impact of changing economic assumptions

Changes in the discount rate and expected return on assets can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense.

Holding all other assumptions constant, the following table reflects what a one hundred basis point increase and decrease in our estimated liability discount rate would have on our projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2013 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Increases to the projected benefit obligation reflect increases to the Company's pension obligations, while decreases in the projected benefit obligation are recoveries toward fully funded status. A change in the discount rate has an inverse relationship to the projected benefit obligation.

49

Holding all other assumptions constant, the following table reflects what a one hundred basis point increase and decrease in our estimated liability discount rate would have on our estimated 2014 pension expense (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Holding other assumptions constant, the following table reflects what a one hundred basis point increase and decrease in our estimated long-term rate of return on plan assets would have on our estimated 2014 pension expense (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Estimated future contributions

We estimate contributions of approximately $385 million in 2014 as compared with $523 million in 2013.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of the net assets acquired. We classify our intangible assets acquired as either trademarks, customer relationships, technology, non-compete agreements, or other purchased intangibles.

Goodwill is not amortized, but rather tested for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter. In the fourth quarter, we also test the acquired tradenames (which also are not amortized) for impairment. We test more frequently if there are indicators of impairment or whenever business circumstances suggest that the carrying value of goodwill or trademarks may not be recoverable. These indicators may include a sustained significant decline in our share price and market capitalization, a decline in our expected future cash flows, or a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, among others. No events occurred during 2013 that indicate the existence of an impairment with respect to our reported goodwill or tradenames.

We perform impairment reviews at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment (referred to as a "component"). A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. An operating segment shall be deemed to be a reporting unit if all of its components are similar, if none of its components is a reporting unit, or if the segment comprises only a single component.

The goodwill impairment test is initially a qualitative analysis to determine if it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, including goodwill, of the corresponding reporting unit. If the "more likely than not" threshold is not met, then the goodwill impairment test becomes a two step analysis. Step One requires the fair value of each reporting unit to be compared to its book value. Management must apply judgment in determining the estimated fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be greater than the carrying value of the reporting unit, goodwill and trademarks are deemed not to be impaired and no further testing is necessary. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we perform Step Two. Step Two uses the calculated fair value of the reporting unit to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation to the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. The difference between the fair value of the reporting unit calculated in Step One and the fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities of the reporting unit is the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill. A charge is recorded in the financial statements if the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill is greater than its implied fair value.

In determining the fair value of our reporting units, we use a discounted cash flow ("DCF") model based on our most current forecasts. We discount the related cash flow forecasts using the weighted-average cost of capital method at the date of evaluation. Preparation of forecasts and selection of the discount rate for use in the DCF model involve significant judgments, 

50

and changes in these estimates could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. We also use market multiples which are obtained from quoted prices of comparable companies to corroborate our DCF model results. The combined estimated fair value of our reporting units from our DCF model often results in a premium over our market capitalization, commonly referred to as a control premium. We believe the implied control premium determined by our impairment analysis is reasonable based upon historic data of premiums paid on actual transactions within our industry. Based on tests performed in both 2013 and 2012, there was no indication of goodwill impairment, and no further testing was required.

We review intangible assets that are being amortized for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. There were no indications that the carrying values of amortizable intangible assets were impaired as of December 31, 2013. If we are required to record impairment charges in the future, they could materially impact our results of operations.

Contingencies

We define a contingency as an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty as to a possible gain or loss that will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur. Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to establish reserves for loss contingencies when the loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate its financial impact. We are required to assess the likelihood of material adverse judgments or outcomes, as well as potential ranges or probability of losses. We determine the amount of reserves required, if any, for contingencies after carefully analyzing each individual item. The required reserves may change due to new developments in each issue. We do not recognize gain contingencies until the contingency is resolved and amounts due are probable of collection.

Share-based Payments

Share-based compensation expense is measured based on the estimated grant date fair value and recognized over the requisite service period for awards that we ultimately expect to vest. We estimate forfeitures at the time of grant based on our actual experience to date and revise our estimates, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.

Share Option Accounting

We generally use a lattice-binomial option-pricing model to value share options granted. Lattice-based option valuation models use a range of assumptions over the expected term of the options, and estimate expected volatilities based on the average of the historical volatility of our share price and the implied volatility of traded options on our shares. No share options were granted during 2013 or 2012.

In terms of the assumptions used in the lattice-based model, we:

•use historical data to estimate option exercise and employee terminations within the valuation model. We stratify employees between those receiving Leadership Performance Plan ("LPP") options, Special Share Plan options, and all other option grants. We believe that this stratification better represents prospective stock option exercise patterns,

•base the expected dividend yield assumption on our current dividend rate, and

•base the risk-free rate for the contractual life of the option on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.

The expected life of employee share options represents the weighted-average period share options are expected to remain outstanding, which is a derived output of the lattice-binomial model.

Restricted Share Units

Restricted share units ("RSUs") are service-based awards for which we recognize the associated compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. We estimate the fair value of the awards based on the market price of the underlying share on the date of grant.

Performance Share Awards

Performance share awards ("PSAs") are performance-based awards for which vesting is dependent on the achievement of certain objectives. Such objectives may be made on a personal, group or company level. We estimate the fair value of the 

51

awards based on the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends foregone during the vesting period.

PSAs may immediately vest at the end of the performance period or may have an additional service period. Compensation cost is recognized over the performance or additional service period,

whichever is longer. The number of shares issued on the vesting date will vary depending on the actual performance objectives achieved. We make assessments of future performance using subjective estimates, such as long-term plans. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions could have a material impact on the compensation expense recognized.

The largest performance-based share-based payment award plan is the LPP, which has a three-year performance period. The 2011 to 2013 performance period ended on December 31, 2013, the 2010 to 2012 performance period ended on December 31, 2012, the 2009 to 2011 performance period ended on December 31, 2011, and the 2008 to 2010 performance period ended on December 31, 2010. The LPP currently has two open performance periods: 2012 to 2014 and 2013 to 2015. A 10% upward adjustment in our estimated performance achievement percentage for both LPP plans would have increased our 2013 expense by approximately $5.9 million, while a 10% downward adjustment would have decreased our expense by approximately $5.9 million. As the percent of expected performance increases or decreases, the potential change in expense can go from 0% to 200% of the targeted total expense.

Income Taxes

We earn income in numerous countries and this income is subject to the laws of taxing jurisdictions within those countries. The estimated effective tax rate for the year is applied to our quarterly operating results. In the event that there is a significant unusual or discrete item recognized, or expected to be recognized, in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or discrete item, such as the resolution of prior-year tax matters.

The carrying values of deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the application of our income tax accounting policies, and are based on management's assumptions and estimates about future operating results and levels of taxable income, and judgments regarding the interpretation of the provisions of current accounting principles.

Deferred tax assets are reduced by valuation allowances if, based on the consideration of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. In this assessment, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified.

We assess carryforwards and tax credits for realization as a reduction of future taxable income by using a "more likely than not" determination. We have not recognized a U.S. deferred tax liability for permanently reinvested earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Additional U.S. income taxes could be recorded (or incurred) if we change our investment strategy relating to these subsidiaries, which could materially affect our future effective tax rate.

We base the carrying values of liabilities for income taxes currently payable on management's interpretation of applicable tax laws, and incorporate management's assumptions and judgments about using tax planning strategies in various taxing jurisdictions. Using different estimates, assumptions and judgments in accounting for income taxes, especially those that deploy tax planning strategies, may result in materially different carrying values of income tax assets and liabilities and changes in our results of operations.

We operate in many jurisdictions where tax laws relating to our businesses are not well developed. In such jurisdictions, we typically obtain professional guidance, when available, and consider existing industry practices before using tax planning strategies and meeting our tax obligations. Tax returns are routinely subject to audit in most jurisdictions, and tax liabilities are frequently finalized through negotiations. In addition, several factors could increase the future level of uncertainty over our tax liabilities, including the following:

•the portion of our overall operations conducted in non-U.S. tax jurisdictions has been increasing, and we anticipate this trend will continue,

•to deploy tax planning strategies and conduct global operations efficiently, our subsidiaries frequently enter into transactions with affiliates, which are generally subject to complex tax regulations and are frequently reviewed by tax authorities,

•tax laws, regulations, agreements and treaties change frequently, requiring us to modify existing tax strategies to conform to such changes, and

•the move of the corporate headquarters to London.

52

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Principles and Practices" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of our significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements and their impact or future potential impact on our financial results, if determinable.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.