PART I  

 ITEM 1.Business  

 Forward Looking Statements  

 This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  All statements in this document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements which may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "would," "should," "may," "estimates" and similar expressions.   

 These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause our actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that may impact our future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) including:  

   ·    general risks associated with the ownership and operation of real estate, including changes in demand, risks related to development of self-storage facilities, potential liability for environmental contamination, natural disasters and adverse changes in laws and regulations governing property tax, real estate and zoning;  

   ·    risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in the markets in which we operate, including risks related to current economic conditions and the economic health of our customers;  

   ·    the impact of competition from new and existing self-storage and commercial facilities and other storage alternatives;  

   ·    difficulties in our ability to successfully evaluate, finance, integrate into our existing operations, and manage acquired and developed properties; 

   ·    risks associated with international operations including, but not limited to, unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, refinancing risk of affiliate loans from us, and local and global economic uncertainty that could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows;  

   ·    risks related to our participation in joint ventures; 

   ·    the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state, and local laws and regulations including, without limitation, those governing environmental, taxes and tenant insurance matters and real estate investment trusts (“REITs”), and risks related to the impact of new laws and regulations;  

   ·    risk of increased tax expense associated either with a possible failure by us to qualify as a REIT, or with challenges to intercompany transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries; 

   ·    changes in federal or state tax laws related to the taxation of REIT’s, which could impact our status as a REIT; 

   ·    disruptions or shutdowns of our automated processes, systems and the Internet or breaches of our data security; 

 4  

   ·    risks associated with the self-insurance of certain business risks, including property and casualty insurance, employee health insurance and workers compensation liabilities;  

   ·    difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost; and  

   ·    economic uncertainty due to the impact of terrorism or war.  

 These forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements. All of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of these forward looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not rely on any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance.   

 General  

 Public Storage was organized in 1980. Effective June 1, 2007, we reorganized Public Storage, Inc. into Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”, “the Trust”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”).   

 At December 31, 2013, our principal business activities are as follows:  

   (i)    Domestic Self-Storage: We acquire, develop, own, and operate self-storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use. We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in the United States (“U.S.”). We have direct and indirect equity interests in 2,200 self-storage facilities (141 million net rentable square feet of space) located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the “Public Storage” brand name.  

   (ii)    European Self-Storage: We have a 49% equity interest in Shurgard Europe, with an institutional investor owning the remaining 51% interest. Shurgard Europe owns 187 self-storage facilities (10 million net rentable square feet of space) located in seven countries in Western Europe which operate under the “Shurgard” brand name and manages one facility we own in the United Kingdom. We believe Shurgard Europe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Western Europe.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In addition, we reinsure policies against losses to goods stored by customers in our self-storage facilities, sell merchandise at our self-storage facilities and manage self-storage facilities owned by third-party owners.   

 For all periods presented herein, we have elected to be treated as a REIT, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, we do not incur federal income tax on our REIT taxable income (generally, net rents and gains from real property, dividends, and interest) that is fully distributed each year (for this purpose, certain distributions paid in a subsequent year may be considered), and if we meet certain organizational and operational rules. We believe we met these requirements in all periods presented herein, and we expect to continue to elect and qualify as a REIT.   

 5  

We report annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial statements certified by our independent registered public accountants. We have also reported quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements with such filings. We expect to continue such reporting.   

 On our website, www.publicstorage.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

 Competition  

 We believe that storage customers generally store their goods within a five mile radius of their home or business. Most of our facilities compete with other nearby self-storage facilities that use the same marketing channels and offer the same service as us. Generally, our competitors attract customers using the same marketing channels we use, including Internet advertising, signage, and banners. As a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities.   

 While competition is significant, the self-storage industry remains fragmented in the U.S. We believe that we own approximately 6% of the aggregate self-storage square footage in the U.S., and that collectively the five largest self-storage operators in the U.S. own approximately 12%, with all other self-storage space owned by numerous private regional and local operators. We believe this market fragmentation enhances the advantage of our brand name, as well as the economies of scale we enjoy with approximately 71% of our 2013 same-store revenues in the 20 Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSA’s”, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau) with the highest population levels.   

 Such fragmentation also provides opportunities for us to acquire additional facilities; however, we compete with a wide variety of institutions and other investors who also view self-storage facilities as attractive investments. The amount of capital available for real estate investments greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments.   

 Business Attributes  

 We believe that we possess several primary business attributes that permit us to compete effectively:  

 Centralized information networks: Our centralized reporting and information network enables us to identify changing market conditions and operating trends as well as analyze customer data and quickly change each of our individual properties’ pricing and promotions on an automated basis.   

 Convenient shopping experience:  Customers can conveniently shop the space available at our facilities, reviewing attributes such as facility location, size, amenities such as climate-control, as well as pricing, and learn about ancillary businesses through the following marketing channels:   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·   

 Our Call Center: Our call center is staffed by skilled sales specialists. Customers reach our call center by calling our advertised toll-free telephone referral number, (800) 44-  

 6  

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·    Our Properties: Customers can also shop at any one of our facilities. Property managers access the same information that is available on our website and to our call center agents, and can inform the customer of storage alternatives at that site or our other nearby storage facilities. Property managers are extensively trained to maximize the conversion of such “walk in” shoppers into customers.  

 Economies of scale: We are the largest provider of self-storage space in the U.S. As of December 31, 2013, we operated 2,200 self-storage facilities with over one million self-storage spaces. These facilities are generally located in major markets within 38 states in the U.S. The size and scope of our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many functions, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation and benefits programs, revenue management, as well as the development and documentation of standardized operating procedures. We also believe that our major market concentration provides managerial efficiencies stemming from having a large number of facilities in close proximity to each other.   

 We believe our market share and concentration in major metropolitan centers makes various promotional and media programs more cost-beneficial for us than for our competitors. As noted above, approximately 71% of our same-store revenues for 2013 were in the 20 MSA’s with the highest population levels. Our large market share and well-recognized brand name increases the likelihood that our facilities will appear prominently in unpaid search results for “self-storage” on major online search engines, and enhances the efficiency of our bidding for paid multiple-keyword advertising. We can use television advertising in many markets, while most of our competitors cannot do so cost-effectively.   

 Brand name recognition: We believe that the “Public Storage” brand name is the most recognized and established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S, due to our national reach in major markets in 38 states, and our highly visible facilities, with their distinct orange colored doors and signage. We believe the “Public Storage” name is one of the most frequently used search terms used by customers using Internet search engines for self-storage. We believe that the “Shurgard” brand, used by Shurgard Europe, is a similarly established and valuable brand in Europe. We believe that the awareness of our brand name results in a high percentage of potential storage customers considering our facilities, relative to other operators.   

 Growth and Investment Strategies  

 Our growth strategies consist of: (i) improving the operating performance of our existing self-storage facilities, (ii) acquiring more facilities, (iii) developing new self-storage space, (iv) participating in the growth of commercial facilities, primarily through our investment in PSB, and (v) participating in the growth of Shurgard Europe. While our long-term strategy includes each of these elements, in the short run the level of growth in our asset base in any period is dependent upon the cost and availability of capital, as well as the relative attractiveness of investment alternatives.   

 Improve the operating performance of existing facilities: We seek to increase the net cash flow of our existing self-storage facilities by a) regularly analyzing our call volume, reservation activity, Internet activity, move-in/move-out rates and other market supply and demand factors and responding by adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, b) attempting to maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate balance between occupancy, rental rates, and promotional discounting and c) controlling operating costs. We believe that our property management personnel, systems, our convenient shopping options for the customer, and our media and Internet advertising programs will continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals.   

 7  

Acquire properties owned or operated by others in the U.S.: We seek to capitalize on the fragmentation of the self-storage business through acquiring attractively priced, well-located existing self-storage facilities. We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels of our existing facilities provide us an advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities.  The level of third-party acquisition opportunities available depends upon many factors, such as the motivation of potential sellers to liquidate their investments, as well as the financing available to self-storage owners. We decide whether to pursue acquisition opportunities based upon many factors including our opinion as to the potential for future growth, the quality of construction and location, the cash flow we expect from the facility when operated on our platform and our yield expectations.    

 During 2013, we acquired 121 facilities from third parties for approximately $1.2 billion, primarily through large portfolio acquisitions. This volume was higher than in the preceding six years combined. We will continue to seek to acquire properties in 2014. While there were more sellers of self-storage facilities in 2013 due at least in part, we believe, to higher values and robust cash flows of self-storage facilities, it is uncertain as to the level of third party acquisitions we will complete in 2014.  

 Develop new self-storage space: The development of new self-storage locations and the expansion of existing self-storage facilities has been an important source of growth. Since the beginning of 2013, we have expanded our development efforts due in part to the significant increase in prices being paid for existing facilities, in many cases well above the cost of developing new facilities. At December 31, 2013, we had a development pipeline of projects to expand existing self-storage facilities and develop new self-storage facilities, which will add approximately 1.8 million net rentable square feet of self-storage space. The aggregate cost of these projects is estimated at $196 million, of which $52 million had been incurred at December 31, 2013, and the remaining costs will be incurred principally in 2014. Some of these projects are subject to significant contingencies such as entitlement approval. We expect to continue to seek additional development projects; however, due to the difficulty in finding projects that meet our risk-adjusted yield expectations, as well as the difficulty in obtaining building permits for self-storage activities in certain municipalities, it is uncertain as to how much additional development we will undertake in the future.   

 Participate in the growth of commercial facilities primarily through our ownership in PS Business Parks, Inc.:  Our investment in PSB provides us diversification into another asset type. PSB is a stand-alone public company traded on the New York Stock Exchange. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we increased our investment in PSB by acquiring 1,356,748 shares of PSB common stock in open-market transactions and directly from PSB, for an aggregate cost of $105.0 million.  

 Over the past three years, PSB has been able to grow its portfolio through acquisitions. In 2011 and 2012, PSB acquired an aggregate total of 6.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $605.0 million. In 2013, PSB acquired 1.5 million net rentable square feet for an aggregate purchase price of $115.6 million. As of December 31, 2013, PSB owned and operated approximately 29.7 million net rentable square feet of commercial space, and had an enterprise value of approximately $3.9 billion (based upon the trading price of PSB’s common stock combined with the liquidation value of its debt and preferred stock as of December 31, 2013).   

 Participate in the growth of European self-storage through ownership in Shurgard Europe: We believe Shurgard Europe is the largest self-storage company in Western Europe. It owns and operates 187 facilities with approximately 10 million net rentable square feet in: France (principally Paris), Sweden (principally Stockholm), the United Kingdom (principally London), the Netherlands, Denmark (principally Copenhagen), Belgium and Germany. We own 49% of Shurgard Europe, with the other 51% owned by a large U.S. institutional investor.   

 Customer awareness and availability of self-storage is significantly lower in Europe than in the U.S. However, with more awareness and product supply, we believe there is potential for increased demand for storage space in Europe. In the long run, we believe Shurgard Europe could capitalize on   

 8  

potential increased demand through the development of new facilities or, to a lesser extent, acquiring existing facilities.   

 Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies  

 Overview of financing strategy: In order to grow our asset base, access to capital is important. In general, we seek to finance our investment activities with retained cash flow and the issuance of preferred and common securities when market conditions are favorable, using bank debt as bridge financing when market conditions are not favorable.   

 Permanent capital: We have generally been able to raise capital through the issuance of preferred securities at an attractive cost of capital relative to the issuance of our common shares and, as a result, issuances of common shares have been minimal over the past several years. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we issued approximately $725.0 million and $1.7 billion, respectively, of preferred securities. Currently, market conditions are much less favorable, with market coupon rates for our most recently issued series of preferred securities trading at approximately 6.5% (as compared to 5.2% for the preferred securities we issued in the first quarter of 2013). We believe that market coupon rates for a new issuance of our preferred securities would need to be in the area of 6.5% and the amount of capital we could raise would most likely be much lower than what we raised in the first quarter of 2013.   

 Bridge financing: We have in the past used our $300 million revolving line of credit as temporary “bridge” financing and repaid such borrowings with permanent capital. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $50.1 million outstanding on our line of credit (none as of February 25, 2014). On December 2, 2013, we borrowed $700 million from Wells Fargo pursuant to a term loan due in one year, in order to fund our acquisitions of self-storage facilities in the fourth quarter of 2013. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information.   

 Borrowing through mortgage loans or senior debt: Even though preferred securities have a higher coupon rate than long-term debt, we have generally not issued conventional debt due to refinancing risk associated with debt and other benefits of preferred securities described in more detail in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.”   

 We have broad powers to borrow in furtherance of our objectives without a vote of our shareholders. These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured borrowings in our Bylaws described in “Limitations on Debt” below.  Our senior debt has an “A” credit rating by Standard and Poor’s. Notwithstanding our desire to continue to meet our capital needs with permanent capital, we believe this high rating, combined with our low level of debt, could allow us to issue a significant amount of unsecured debt at lower interest rates than the coupon on preferred securities if we chose to.   

 Assumption of Debt: Substantially all of our mortgage debt outstanding was assumed in connection with real estate acquisitions.  When we have assumed debt in the past, we did so because the nature of the loan terms did not allow prepayment, or a prepayment penalty made it economically disadvantageous to prepay.   

 Issuance of securities in exchange for property: We have issued both our common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other investments in the past. Future issuances will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market conditions at the time, including the market prices of our equity securities.  

 Joint Venture financing: We have used joint ventures with institutional investors and we may form additional joint ventures in the future.  

 9  

Disposition of properties: Generally, we have disposed of self-storage facilities only when compelled to do so through condemnation proceedings. We do not presently intend to sell any significant number of self-storage facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not.  

 Investments in Real Estate and Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities  

 Investment Policies and Practices with respect to our investments: Following are our investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any significant alteration, can be changed by our Board of Trustees without a shareholder vote:  

   ·    Our investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage facilities (the nature of our self-storage facilities is described in Item 2, “Properties”), as well as partial interests in entities that own self-storage facilities.  

   ·    Our partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited partnership interests in entities that own self-storage facilities that are managed by us under the “Public Storage” brand name in the U.S., as well as storage facilities managed in Europe under the “Shurgard” brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe. 

   ·    Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in entities in which we already have an interest. 

   ·    To a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties (described in Item 2, “Properties”), containing commercial and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB. 

 Facilities Owned by Subsidiaries  

 In addition to our direct ownership of 2,172 self-storage facilities in the U.S. and one self-storage facility in London, England at December 31, 2013, we have controlling indirect interests in entities that own 14 self-storage facilities in the U.S. Due to our controlling interest in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities in our financial statements.  

 Facilities Owned by Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities  

 At December 31, 2013, we also had ownership interests in entities that we do not control or consolidate. These entities include PSB, Shurgard Europe (discussed above), and various limited partnerships that own an aggregate of 14 self-storage facilities. These entities are referred to collectively as the “Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities.”   

 PSB, which files financial statements with the SEC, and Shurgard Europe, have debt and other obligations that we do not consolidate in our financial statements. None of the other Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities have significant amounts of debt or other obligations. See Note 4 to our December 31, 2013 financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets, liabilities and operating results of the Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities.  

 Limitations on Debt   

 Without the consent of holders of the various series of Senior Preferred Shares, we may not take any action that would result in our “Debt Ratio” exceeding 50%. “Debt Ratio”, as defined in the related governing documents, represents generally the ratio of debt to total assets before accumulated depreciation and amortization on our balance sheet, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As of December 31, 2013, the Debt Ratio was approximately 6%.   

 10  

Our bank and senior unsecured debt agreements contain various customary financial covenants, including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of default. We believe we were in compliance with each of these covenants as of December 31, 2013.   

 Employees  

 We have approximately 5,200 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2013 which are engaged primarily in property operations.   

 Seasonality  

 We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the demand for self-storage space, with demand and rates generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months.  

 Insurance  

 We have historically carried customary property, earthquake, general liability, employee medical insurance and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to customary levels of deductibles. The aggregate limits on these policies of approximately $75 million for property losses and $102 million for general liability losses are higher than estimates of maximum probable losses that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted.    

 We reinsure a program that provides insurance to our customers from an independent third-party insurer. This program covers tenant claims for losses to goods stored at our facilities as a result of specific named perils (earthquakes are not covered by this program), up to a maximum limit of $5,000 per storage unit. We reinsure all risks in this program, but purchase insurance from an independent third party insurance company for aggregate claims between $5.0 million and $15.0 million per occurrence. We are subject to licensing requirements and regulations in several states. At December 31, 2013, there were approximately 759,000 certificates held by our self-storage customers, representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.7 billion.  

 11  

 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors