ITEM 1A. Risk Factors  

 In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the Company. This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of Item 1.  

 We have significant exposure to real estate risk.   

 Since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. These risks include the following:    

 Natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues. Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, reducing our revenues. Damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage. In addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be covered by insurance. See Note 13 to our December 31, 2013 financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective. In addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on the U.S. economy, reducing storage demand and impairing our operating results.   

 Operating costs could increase. We could be subject to increases in insurance premiums, increased or new property tax assessments or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases.   

 The acquisition of existing properties is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. We have acquired material amounts of self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. We face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors. As a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. Failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating newly acquired properties into our operations or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition.   

 Development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks. At December 31, 2013, we have a pipeline of development projects totaling $196 million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects. There are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, weather issues, unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems. Self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors.   

 There is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives. Most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. If development of self-storage facilities by other operators were to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons, competition with our facilities could intensify.   

 12  

We may incur significant liabilities from environmental contamination or moisture infiltration. Existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned or operated, even if we were not responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property. We have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified material liabilities. These assessments, commonly referred to as “Phase 1 Environmental Assessments,” include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties.   

 We are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our customers’ property, as well as potential health concerns. When we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our customers to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims.   

 We are not aware of any environmental contamination or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation. However, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could arise or develop in the future. Settling any such liabilities could negatively impact our earnings and cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities.   

 We incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. From time to time we have to make monetary settlements or defend actions or arbitration (including class actions) to resolve tenant or employment-related claims and disputes.  

 Economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital.  

 Our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate our properties.   

 Our ability to issue preferred shares or access other sources of capital, such as borrowing, has been in the past, and may in the future be, adversely affected by challenging market conditions. The issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. If we were unable to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base could be limited.   

 We have exposure to European operations through our ownership in Shurgard Europe.   

 As a result of our ownership of 49% of the equity in Shurgard Europe’s equity with a book value of $424.1 million at December 31, 2013, and our loan to Shurgard Europe totaling $428.1 million at December 31, 2013, we are exposed to additional risks related to the ownership and operation of international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results, including the following:   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·   

 Legislative, tax, and regulatory risks: We are subject to complex foreign laws and regulations related to permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws. These laws can be difficult to apply or   

 13  

interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors. Such changes, or Shurgard’s failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·    Risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property: Collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in Europe, could negatively impact Shurgard Europe’s labor costs or operations.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·    Impediments of Shurgard Europe’s joint venture structure: Shurgard Europe’s significant decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, require the consent of our joint venture partner. As a result, Shurgard Europe may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive. In addition, we could be unable to separately pursue such opportunities due to certain market exclusivity provisions of the Shurgard Europe joint venture agreement, and our 49% equity investment may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by potential lenders to Public Storage due to the joint venture structure.  

   ·    Risks related to Shurgard Europe’s Debt: Shurgard Europe has a term loan from a bank (the “Bank Loan”) with a balance of approximately €107.5 million ($148.0 million) at December 31, 2013 maturing in November 2014 and a loan due to us (the “Shareholder Loan”) totaling €311.0 million ($428.1 million) at December 31, 2013. On January 28, 2014, our joint venture partner in Shurgard Europe acquired 51% of the Shareholder Loan at face value, using the proceeds from a bank loan (the “JV Partner Loan”), and the maturity date of the Shareholder Loan was extended to April 2019. The JV Partner Loan matures in two years and is collateralized with our joint venture partner’s interests in the Shareholder Loan and their interest in Shurgard Europe. Shurgard Europe will seek to refinance the Bank Loan. If Shurgard Europe is not able to refinance its debt due to a constrained credit market, negative operating trends or other reasons, our equity investment in Shurgard Europe could be negatively impacted.  

 The Hughes Family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders.    

 At December 31, 2013, B. Wayne Hughes, our former Chairman, and his family, which includes two members of the board of trustees (the “Hughes Family”) owned approximately 15.8% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of our outstanding common shares. Consequently, the Hughes Family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, resulting in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders.   

 Takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders.  

 14  

In certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons. However, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction:   

   ·    Provisions of Maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with Public Storage. Currently, the Board has opted not to subject the Company to these provisions of Maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval.  

   ·    To protect against the loss of our REIT status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the Hughes Family or “designated investment entities” (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in either case unless a specific exemption is granted by our board of trustees. These limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees.  

   ·    Similarly, current provisions of our declaration of trust and powers of our Board of Trustees could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the Board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the Board’s ability under Maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control. 

 If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay substantial income taxes.  

 REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. A qualifying REIT does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders. Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing REIT qualification of our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. We believe that we are organized and have operated as a REIT and we intend to continue to operate to maintain our REIT status.   

 There can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a REIT. The highly technical nature of the REIT rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods or changes in our circumstances, all could adversely affect our ability to comply. For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and statutory relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular federal corporate rates on all of our taxable income and we also could be subject to penalties and interest. We would generally not be eligible to seek REIT status again until the fifth taxable year after the first year of our failure to qualify. Any taxes, interest and penalties incurred would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect.   

 We may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders.  

 Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the Company have elected to be treated as “taxable REIT subsidiaries” for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. If tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable REIT subsidiaries to us are greater than what would be paid under similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject   

 15  

to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. To the extent the Company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes thereto, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders.   

 We are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the Internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business and security breaches or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our business and customer relationships.   

 We are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and Internet commerce, with approximately half of our new customers coming from the telephone or over the Internet, and the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about our customers. We centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services. These systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events.  

 As a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other circumstance that resulted in a significant outage at our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures. Further, viruses and other related risks could negatively impact our information technology processes. Our or our customers’ confidential information could be compromised or misappropriated, due to a breach of our network security. Such data security breaches as well as system disruptions and shutdowns could result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasing our self-storage facilities. Such events could lead to lost future revenues and adversely affect our results of operations.   

 We have no ownership interest in Canadian self-storage facilities owned or operated by the Hughes Family.   

 At December 31, 2013, the Hughes Family had ownership interests in, and operated, 54 self-storage facilities in Canada (the “Canadian Self-Storage Facilities”). These facilities are operated under the “Public Storage” tradename, which we license to the Hughes Family for use in Canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis. We have a right of first refusal, subject to limitations, to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the Canadian Self-Storage Facilities if the Hughes Family or the corporation agrees to sell them. However, we do not benefit from profits or potential appreciation in value of the Canadian Self-Storage Facilities because we have no ownership interest in these facilities. We do not operate in the Canadian self-storage market, and have no plans to do so. However, if we choose to do so without acquiring the Hughes Family interests in the Canadian Self-Storage Facilities, we may have to share the use of the “Public Storage” name in Canada with the Hughes Family, unless we are able to terminate the license agreement.   

 Through our subsidiaries, we reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by customers in the Canadian Self-Storage Facilities. During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we received $0.5 million, $0.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the Canadian Self-Storage Facilities. Because our right to earn these premiums may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue.   

 16  

 We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that require us to incur compliance costs affecting our operating results and financial condition.  

 Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, restatement of our financial statements and could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.  

 The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as well as other healthcare reform legislation recently passed or being considered by Congress and state legislatures (collectively, the “Healthcare Legislation”) are expected to impact our business beginning in 2014. Based on its current form, we believe that the Healthcare Legislation will at least moderately increase our costs; however, there could be a significant further negative impact to our costs and business depending upon how the various governmental agencies design and implement the specific regulations to implement the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the nature of further legislation that may be passed at the national and local level, and other factors.  

 In response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations could be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as legislation that could facilitate union activity or that would otherwise increase operating costs.  

 All our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with related regulations and similar state law requirements, as well as various real estate and zoning laws and regulations, which are subject to change and could become more costly to comply with in the future. Compliance with these requirements can require us to incur significant expenditures, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. A failure to comply with these laws could lead to fines or possible awards of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. Failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.   

 Our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth.  

 We hold Limited Lines Self-Service Storage Insurance Agent licenses from a number of individual state Departments of Insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. Our continued ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self-Service Storage Insurance Agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. The regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. As a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our reinsurance activities, or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded a total of $67.8 million in net income from our tenant reinsurance activities.   

 ITEM 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments  

 None.  

 17  

 ITEM 2.Properties