Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information described under the caption “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this report.  

OVERVIEW  

We are a developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics, medical imaging systems and surgical products dedicated to the healthcare needs of women. Our core business segments are focused on breast health, diagnostics, GYN surgical and skeletal health.  

Our breast health products include a broad portfolio of breast imaging and related products and accessories, including digital and film-based mammography systems, magnetic resonance imaging (“MRI”) breast coils, computer-aided detection (“CAD”) for mammography and MRI, minimally invasive breast biopsy devices, breast biopsy site markers, breast biopsy guidance systems, breast imaging comfort pads, and breast brachytherapy products. We have also developed a new breast imaging platform, Dimensions, which utilizes a new technology, tomosynthesis, to produce three dimensional (“3D”) images, as well as conventional two dimensional (“2D”) full field digital mammography (“FFDM”) images. In the U.S., our Dimensions product has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for providing conventional 2D images, and we have submitted a pre-market approval (“PMA”) application for the 3D configuration. Our Dimensions 3D system was reviewed by the Radiological Devices Panel of the FDA on September 24, 2010 as part of our PMA application. In connection with that review, the panel unanimously voted that the system was both safe and effective for both screening and diagnostic mammography. On November 22, 2010, we received an approvable letter from the FDA for our Dimensions 3D system. Final approval of our PMA application for our system remains subject to satisfactory review and inspection of our manufacturing facility, methods and controls. Even with the approvable letter, we cannot assure that the FDA will approve our system for either use on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, even if approved, the FDA could impose conditions to such approval that would significantly limit the use or commercialization of the system. Our Dimensions platform received CE mark approval in Europe during fiscal 2008 and Canadian registration in March 2009, both for 2D and 3D modes of imaging.  

In August 2010, we acquired Sentinelle Medical Inc. (“Sentinelle Medical”), a company that develops, manufactures and markets MRI breast coils, patient positioners and visualization software. Sentinelle Medical, which is included within our breast health segment, is dedicated to developing advanced imaging technologies used in high-field strength MRI systems.  

Our diagnostics products include the ThinPrep System (“ThinPrep”), which is primarily used in cytology applications such as cervical cancer screening, the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test, which assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth, and our molecular diagnostic reagents used for a wide variety of DNA and RNA analysis applications based on our proprietary Invader chemistry. Our current clinical diagnostic offerings based upon this Invader chemistry include products to assist in the diagnosis of human papillomavirus (“HPV”), cystic fibrosis, cardiovascular risk and other diseases. We received FDA approval of our Cervista HPV tests in March 2009, and CE mark approval in Europe for Cervista HPV high risk (“HR”) in January 2009 and in May 2009 for Cervista HPV 16/18.  

Our GYN surgical products include the NovaSure Endometrial Ablation System (“NovaSure System”) and the Adiana Permanent Contraception System (“Adiana System”). The NovaSure System enables physicians to treat women suffering from excessive menstrual bleeding in a minimally invasive manner in order to eliminate or reduce their bleeding. The Adiana System is a form of permanent female contraception intended as an alternative to tubal ligation. We received FDA approval of the Adiana System in July 2009 and CE mark approval for the system in Europe in December 2008.  

Our skeletal health products include dual-energy X-ray bone densitometry systems, an ultrasound-based osteoporosis assessment product, and our Fluoroscan mini C-arm imaging products.  

41  

Table of Contents 

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS  

Market acceptance of our medical products in the United States and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs, private insurers or other healthcare payors. Since the end of calendar 2008, the uncertainty surrounding world financial markets and slowdown in worldwide macroeconomic conditions have caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. Additionally, constrictions in world credit markets have caused and continue to cause our customers to experience difficulty securing the financing necessary to purchase our products. Economic uncertainty and unemployment have and may continue to result in cost-conscious consumers focusing on acute care rather than wellness, which has and may continue to adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. Furthermore, governments and other third party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. If the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted.  

In March 2010, significant reforms to the healthcare system were adopted as law in the United States. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and imposes new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices beginning in 2013. We expect that our products will fall under the government classification requiring the excise tax. U.S. net product sales represented 79% and 80% of our worldwide net product sales in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

As we operate in a highly regulated industry, other governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including, without limitation: new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices; and changes in the tax laws relating to our operations, including those associated with the recently adopted healthcare reform law discussed above, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  

Professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities from time to time. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related therapies. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. Recommendations, guidelines or studies that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased use of our products. For example, in November 2009, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists changed their recommendations for pap smear screening, and the United States Preventive Services Task Force changed their recommendations for mammography screening. These new recommendations could significantly reduce the amount of screening using our ThinPrep, Selenia and related products and adversely affect the sale of those products.  

In recent history, there have been periodic significant fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. The ongoing fluctuations of the value of the U.S. dollar may cause our products to be less competitive in international markets and may impact sales and profitability over time. Historically, a majority of our capital  

42  

Table of Contents 

 equipment sales to international dealers have been denominated in U.S. dollars. However, we expect there to be a shift to more sales denominated in the Euro compared to the U.S. dollar for our Euro zone dealers. In addition, we have international sales, principally in our Diagnostics segment, that are denominated in foreign currencies. The value of these sales is also impacted by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar. Given the uncertainty in the worldwide financial markets, foreign currency fluctuations may be significant in the future, and if the U.S. dollar strengthens, we may experience a material adverse effect on our international revenues and operating results.  

ACQUISITIONS  

Fiscal 2010 Acquistions:  

Sentinelle Medical Inc.  

On August 5, 2010, we completed our acquisition of Sentinelle Medical, a privately held company located in Toronto, Canada. The purchase price is comprised of an $84.8 million cash payment, which was net of certain adjustments, plus a two-year contingent earn out up to a maximum of $250.0 million in cash. We have concluded that the acquisition of Sentinelle Medical did not represent a material business combination and therefore no pro forma financial information has been provided herein. Subsequent to the acquisition date, our results of operations include the results of Sentinelle Medical, which is a component of our Breast Health reporting segment. We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 805, Business Combinations, effective September 27, 2009 and have accounted for the Sentinelle Medical acquisition as a purchase of a business under this business combination accounting standard.  

The allocation of the purchase price is based upon preliminary estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of August 5, 2010. The purchase price in excess of net tangible assets acquired was allocated to identifiable intangible assets aggregating $67.6 million, primarily comprised of developed technology of $60.9 million and in-process research and development projects of $4.8 million, based upon a detailed valuation that relies on projections and assumptions. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was allocated to goodwill of $48.9 million.  

The amount allocated to acquired in-process research and development represented the estimated fair value of in-process projects based on risk-adjusted cash flows utilizing a discount rate of 17%. These in-process projects had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no future alternative uses as of the date of the acquisition. The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility of these projects was obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products. The acquired in-process research and development assets are not subject to amortization until the projects are complete, at which time, they will be amortized over their estimated remaining useful lives ranging from 10 to 20 years. These projects relate to a prostrate MRI coil and certain software, and the projects are expected to be completed in fiscal 2011 at a cost of approximately $1.0 million. If the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial benefits expected for these projects or for the transaction as a whole.  

The contingent earn out will be based on a multiple of incremental revenue growth during the two-year period following the completion of the acquisition. As required by ASC 805, we have recorded an estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration liability based on future revenue projections of the Sentinelle Medical business under various potential scenarios and weighted probability assumptions of these outcomes. These cash flow projections have been discounted using a rate of 16.5%. This analysis resulted in an initial contingent consideration liability of $29.5 million, which will be adjusted periodically as a component of operating expenses based on changes in fair value of the liability, primarily driven by assumptions pertaining to the achievement of the defined revenue growth milestones. This fair value measurement is based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represents a Level 3 measurement as defined in ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements. As of September 25, 2010, there were no significant changes in the estimated outcomes for the contingent consideration recognized. Actual amounts paid may differ from the liability recorded.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal 2008 Acquisitions:  

Third Wave Technologies, Inc.  

On July 24, 2008, we completed our acquisition of Third Wave pursuant to a definitive agreement dated June 8, 2008. We paid $11.25 per share of Third Wave, for an estimated aggregate purchase price of $591.1 million, including $8.1 million for the estimated fair value of fully vested stock-based awards and $7.6 million in acquisition-related expenses. We concluded that the acquisition of Third Wave did not represent a material business combination and therefore no pro forma financial information has been provided herein. Our results of operations include the results of Third Wave since the acquisition date, as a component of our Diagnostics reporting segment.  

Our acquisition of Third Wave was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and the total purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on our estimate of their fair values as of the date of the acquisition. The excess of purchase price over those fair values was recorded as goodwill. As a result of this acquisition, we recorded a $195.2 million charge for acquired in-process research and development in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and we have recorded additional amortization expense for the acquired intangible assets and additional interest expense on the funds we borrowed to complete the acquisition in both fiscal 2009 and 2008.  

The allocation of the purchase price was based upon preliminary estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of July 24, 2008. We finalized the allocation of the purchase price in fiscal 2009 once we had all necessary information to complete our estimates. The purchase price in excess of net tangible assets acquired was allocated to identifiable intangible assets, including in-process research and development, based upon a detailed valuation that relies on information and assumptions further described below. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was allocated to goodwill.  

As part of the purchase price allocation, $195.2 million of the purchase price was allocated to acquired in-process research and development projects. The amounts allocated to acquired in-process research and development represents programs for which some research and development has been completed, but technological feasibility has not been determined or FDA approval is pending. The amount allocated to acquired in-process research and development represents the estimated fair value based on risk-adjusted cash flows related to these projects using a discount rate of 20%. The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility of these projects was obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products. The fair value attributable to these in-process projects was expensed at the time of the acquisition. If the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial benefits expected for these projects or for the transaction as a whole.  

The most significant acquired in-process technology related to the Cervista HPV HR screening, for which we estimated a value of $151.2 million. At the time of, and subsequent to the acquisition, we sold HPV reagents that detect certain high risk HPV types as Analyte Specific Reagents (“ASRs”). In 2006, Third Wave began clinical trials for PMA submissions to the FDA for Cervista HPV HR. Third Wave submitted the PMAs in April 2008 and received FDA approval in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Since receiving FDA approval, we have begun to transition to only selling HPV IVDs. The HPV in-process research and development related only to the HPV IVDs and the HPV ASRs were valued as developed technology.  

The estimated cost to complete Third Wave’s remaining in-process research and development projects as of September 25, 2010 in the aggregate was approximately $2.8 million.  

On July 17, 2008, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and certain other lenders and borrowed $540.0 million under that facility to finance our acquisition of Third Wave. We paid off amounts outstanding under this amended and restated credit agreement in fiscal 2010 and terminated this agreement in third quarter of fiscal 2010.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Cytyc Corporation  

On October 22, 2007, we completed our merger with Cytyc, pursuant to which Cytyc became our wholly-owned subsidiary. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Cytyc shareholders received 1.04 shares of our common stock and $16.50 in cash for each share of Cytyc common stock held by them. The aggregate consideration we paid for Cytyc, including liabilities assumed in connection with the transaction, was $6.2 billion comprised as follows:  

   •    merger consideration paid to the former Cytyc stockholders of $5.8 billion, consisting of approximately $2.1 billion in cash and approximately 132.0 million shares of our common stock with an estimated fair value of approximately $3.7 billion;  

   •    16.5 million of fully vested stock options issued upon conversion of Cytyc stock options with an estimated fair value of approximately $241.4 million;  

   •    the assumption of obligations of Cytyc under its 2.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2024 with a principal amount outstanding as of October 22, 2007 of approximately $73.0 million and an estimated fair value of approximately $125.0 million; and  

   •    direct acquisition costs of $24.2 million.  

In connection with the merger, we entered into a credit agreement relating to a senior secured credit facility with Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and certain other lenders, in which the lenders committed to provide, in the aggregate, senior secured financing of up to approximately $2.55 billion to pay for the cash portion of the merger consideration, for repayment of existing debt of Cytyc, for expenses relating to the merger and for working capital following the completion of the merger. As of the closing of the merger, we borrowed $2.35 billion under the credit facility. In December 2007, we refinanced a substantial portion of this credit facility through the issuance of 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2037 in the principal amount of $1.725 billion. On July 17, 2008, after having paid off all outstanding term loans under the credit facility, we amended and restated the credit facility to finance our acquisition of Third Wave.  

Our merger with Cytyc was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and we were considered to be the acquirer of Cytyc for accounting purposes. Our results of operations after completion of the merger include the operations of Cytyc. As a result of the acquisition, we recorded an in-process research and development of $370.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2008.  

We allocated the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on our estimate of their estimated fair values. We then allocated the purchase price in excess of net tangible assets acquired to identifiable intangible assets, including in-process research and development, based upon a detailed valuation that relies on information and assumptions further described below. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was allocated to goodwill.  

Identifiable Intangible Assets  

As part of the purchase price allocation, we determined that Cytyc’s identifiable intangible assets included existing technology, customer relationships and trade names. Cytyc’s existing technology related to patents, patent applications and know-how with respect to the technologies embedded in its currently marketed products. In determining the allocation of the purchase price to existing technology, consideration was only given to patent and patent applications that relate to products that have been approved by the FDA. Cytyc’s customer relationship assets relate to relationships that Cytyc’s sales force has developed with OB/GYNS, breast surgeons, clinical laboratories and other physicians. The trade names related to both the Cytyc name as well as key product names.  

45  

Table of Contents 

We used the income approach to value the existing technology and marketing based intangibles. This approach calculates fair value by discounting the after-tax cash flows back to a present value. The baseline data for this analysis was the cash flow estimates used to price the transaction. Cash flows were forecasted for each intangible asset, and then discounted based on an appropriate discount rate. The discount rates applied were benchmarked with reference to the implied rate of return from the transaction model as well as Cytyc’s weighted average cost of capital based on the capital asset pricing model.  

In estimating the useful life of the acquired assets, we considered ASC 350, Intangible—Goodwill and Other, Subsection 30-35-3, which lists the pertinent factors to be considered when estimating the useful life of an intangible asset. These factors included a review of the expected use by the combined company of the assets acquired, the expected useful life of another asset (or group of assets) related to the acquired assets, legal, regulatory or other contractual provisions that may limit the useful life of an acquired asset or may enable the extension of the useful life of an acquired asset without substantial cost, the effects of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors, and the level of maintenance expenditures required to obtain the expected future cash flows from the asset. We are amortizing these intangible assets over their estimated useful lives either using a method that is based on estimated future cash flows as we believe this will approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets will be utilized, or on a straightline basis if those cash flows are not reliably determinable.  

In connection with our review of long-lived assets, we recorded a $143.5 million intangible asset impairment charge related to our MammoSite reporting unit, which was acquired in the merger with Cytyc and is within our Breast Health segment, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. See the Critical Accounting Policies below for additional information pertaining to the impairment analysis.  

Acquired In-Process Research and Development  

As part of the purchase price allocation for our merger with Cytyc, we allocated $370.0 million of the purchase price to acquired in-process research and development projects. The amount allocated to acquired in-process research and development represented the estimated fair value based on risk-adjusted cash flows related to in-process projects that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future uses as of the date of the merger. The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility of these projects was obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products. The fair value attributable to these in-process projects was expensed at the time of the merger. If the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial benefits expected for these projects or for the transaction as a whole.  

The fair value assigned to acquired in-process research and development was determined by estimating the costs to develop the acquired technology into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the projects, and discounting the net cash flows to their present value. The revenue projections used to value the acquired in-process research and development was based on estimates of relevant market sizes and growth factors, expected trends in technology, and the nature and expected timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors. The resulting net cash flows from such projects were based on our estimates of cost of sales, operating expenses, and income taxes from such projects.  

The rates utilized to discount the net cash flows to their present value were based on estimated cost of capital calculations and the implied rate of return from the transaction model plus a risk premium. Due to the nature of the forecasts and the risks associated with the developmental projects, appropriate risk-adjusted discount rates were used for the in-process research and development projects. The discount rates were based on the stage of completion and uncertainties surrounding the successful development of the purchased in-process technology projects.  

The acquired in-process research and development of Cytyc related to the following research and development projects: Adiana System and expanded labeling of the NovaSure System, Gestiva, the ThinPrep Imaging System, the ThinPrep Processor and Helica.  

46  

Table of Contents 

The most significant acquired in-process technology related to the Adiana System for which we estimated a value of approximately $220.0 million. The system is an incisionless trans-cervical permanent sterilization device intended to be used during an office or hospital based procedure. In January 2008, the FDA requested an additional year of clinical trial data for the product, and in July 2009, we received FDA approval for the product.  

On January 16, 2008, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our rights to Gestiva, a drug being developed to be used in the prevention of preterm birth in pregnant women with a history of spontaneous preterm birth, to K-V Pharmaceutical Company (KV) for a total purchase price of $82.0 million. We subsequently amended the agreement with KV to increase the purchase price to $199.5 million. For additional information, refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. We had allocated $53.4 million to acquired in-process research for this product as part of the initial purchase price allocation.  

Subsequent to the merger with Cytyc, we decided to discontinue the development of Cytyc’s Helica Thermal Coagulator System product. We will not incur any further costs or realize any future cash flows from this product. Our intangible asset valuation for Cytyc included $2.9 million related to customer relationships for Helica. As a result of the Helica product discontinuation, we recorded an impairment charge of $2.9 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2008.  

The other in-process research and development projects we acquired in our merger with Cytyc were at different stages of development, ranging from the early stages of development to Phase IIb prototype building, ongoing clinical trials and submission to the FDA of PMA and drug applications. FDA approval or clearance had not been granted for any of the products classified as in-process research and development, nor had Cytyc received any foreign approvals or clearances for any of these products. All products classified as in-process research and development require various levels of in-house and external testing, clinical trials and approvals from the FDA before these future products can be marketed. The estimated cash requirements to complete the remaining products as of September 25, 2010 were expected to be approximately $2.4 million.  

The successful development of new products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, including, unanticipated delays, access to capital, budget overruns, technical problems and other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products and enhancements, including, for example changes requested by the FDA in connection with PMA or NDA applications for products or 510(k) notification. Given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction, we cannot provide assurance that any of our product development efforts will be successful on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. Our failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget could harm our results of operations and financial condition.  

Goodwill  

The purchase price allocation for Cytyc initially resulted in goodwill of approximately $3.84 billion. The factors contributing to the recognition of this amount of goodwill were based upon several strategic and synergistic benefits that were expected to be realized from the combination. These benefits included the expectation that our complementary products and technologies would create a leading women’s healthcare company with an enhanced presence in hospitals, private practices and healthcare organizations. We also expected to realize substantial synergies through the use of Cytyc’s OB/GYN and breast surgeon sales channel to cross-sell our existing and future products. Our merger with Cytyc provided us broader channel coverage within the United States and expanded geographic reach internationally, as well as increased scale and scope for further expanding operations through product development and complementary strategic transactions.  

In connection with our fiscal 2010 annual goodwill impairment test, performed on the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $76.7 million related to our MammoSite reporting  

47  

Table of Contents 

 unit. As a result of our interim impairment analysis of goodwill as of December 27, 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $2.34 billion related to the goodwill from the merger with Cytyc. See the Critical Accounting Policies below for additional information pertaining to the interim impairment analysis of our goodwill. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by items as shown in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. All dollar amounts in tables are presented in thousands.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

48  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal Year Ended September 25, 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 26, 2009  

Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2010, our product sales decreased $12.1 million, or 1%, compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to a decrease of $27.4 million in our Breast Health products and to a lesser extent a $7.5 million decline in Skeletal Health products partially offset by increases in GYN Surgical and Diagnostic products of $18.2 million and $4.7 million, respectively.  

Breast Health product sales decreased 5% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to a $13.9 million decline in digital mammography systems revenues principally due to product mix as we sold a greater number of defeatured Selenia systems, which have lower average selling prices than our full featured models, a shift to a higher level of international sales, and to a lesser extent, we experienced slight pressure on average selling prices. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in the number of units sold of our new 2D/3D Dimensions systems. The decline in revenue is also due to phasing out the supply of digital detectors to an OEM and closing our AEG organic photoconductor drum coatings manufacturing operations in Shanghai, which in aggregate accounted for $17.5 million in revenues in fiscal 2009. These decreases were partially offset by a $9.3 million increase in revenues due to higher volumes of our breast biopsy products, offset in part by a slight reduction in average selling prices for these products. We also generated $2.4 million in revenues from sales of MRI breast coils through our acquisition of Sentinelle Medical in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.  

Diagnostics product sales increased 1% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to an increase in sales of our Cervista HPV tests, and to a lesser extent other molecular tests. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in ThinPrep pap test volume domestically due to the decline in doctor visits, which we believe is attributable to the lagging effects of unemployment, continuing economic uncertainty and recent changes in cervical cancer screening guidelines to extend the recommended intervals between such screenings, and the discontinuance of certain molecular ASRs, which contributed $3.5 million of revenue in 2009. In addition, we have seen laboratory consolidation, which impacts our average selling prices due to volume purchase discounts to the larger laboratories.  

GYN Surgical product sales increased 7% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to growing sales of the Adiana System, which was approved by the FDA in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, and to a lesser extent, an increase in the number of NovaSure products sold. We also experienced a slight increase in NovaSure average selling prices.  

Skeletal Health product sales decreased 11% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to a decrease in mini C-arms sales of $4.6 million as a result of a reduction in the number of units sold. In addition, there was a $3.6 million decrease in osteoporosis assessment product sales principally due to a decrease in the number of bone densitometry systems sold worldwide. This product line has experienced a difficult capital equipment environment worldwide and the ongoing effects of the reduction in reimbursement for osteoporosis exams in the U.S. Recently the reimbursement situation improved, which may benefit future demand for this product line.  

49  

Table of Contents 

In fiscal 2010, approximately 79% of product sales were generated in the United States, 12% in Europe, 5% in Asia, and 4% in other international markets. In fiscal 2009, approximately 80% of product sales were generated in the United States, 12% in Europe, 4% in Asia, and 4% in other international markets.  

Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. Service and other revenues increased 26% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily in our Breast Health business due to an increase in the number of service contracts driven by an increase in our installed base of our full field digital mammography systems.  

Cost of Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Product sales gross margin decreased to 45% in fiscal 2010 compared to 56% in fiscal 2009 primarily due to the significant intangible asset impairment charge of $123.4 million recorded in fiscal 2010.  

Cost of Product Sales. The cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales in fiscal 2010 was 34% compared to 33% in fiscal 2009. Cost of product sales as a percentage of product revenues increased across our business segments, except Skeletal Health which remained relatively flat with the prior year. The decline in gross margin in the current year was driven by a shift in product mix of our Selenia digital mammography systems to lower margin configurations, a higher level of international sales, and a slight reduction in average selling prices in our Breast Health segment. In addition, we experienced unfavorable manufacturing variances related to our Adiana System and lower absorption of manufacturing costs.  

Cost of Product Sales—Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets relates to acquired developed technology. These intangible assets are generally being amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 20 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. The increase in amortization in fiscal 2010 is due to the method of recognition based on the expected economic benefits of the underlying assets, and is primarily related to the intangible assets acquired in the Cytyc merger in the first quarter of fiscal 2008.  

Cost of Product Sales—Impairment of Intangible Assets. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 in connection with our Company-wide annual budgeting and strategic planning process, we determined that indicators of impairment existed in our MammoSite reporting unit due to changing market conditions for the  

50  

Table of Contents 

 breast brachytherapy market, including downward pressure on procedure volumes due to the continuing adverse macroeconomic environment and current trends in breast cancer management, as well as competitive pricing pressures and competition from existing and alternative new technologies. These factors resulted in lowering our financial projections for MammoSite. We performed the first step in the long-lived assets impairment test and compared MammoSite’s forecasted undiscounted cash flows to the carrying value of its net assets, which indicated that these cash flows were insufficient to recover MammoSite’s carrying value. Therefore, we determined the fair value of MammoSite’s long-lived assets, which are primarily intangible assets, using a discounted cash flow technique. Based on the fair value of the long-lived assets, we recorded an impairment charge of $123.4 million to developed technology in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we decided to discontinue selling a certain product acquired in the Third Wave acquisition, which was an indicator of impairment, and therefore, we performed an impairment test. Due to the insufficient cash flows to be generated, the Company determined that the related asset group’s fair value was de minimus and recorded an impairment charge of $4.1 million comprised of developed technology of $2.6 million and capitalized license fees of $1.5 million.  

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues gross margin has improved to 39% in fiscal 2010 from 25% in fiscal 2009 due in part to the improved absorption of fixed service costs as a result of the continued growth of service contract revenue, primarily in the Breast Health business. We have been able to convert a high percentage of our domestic installed base of full field digital mammography systems to service contracts upon the expiration of the warranty period.  

Operating Expenses.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 2% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 due to an increase in clinical trial costs, primarily related to our tomosynthesis product,  

51  

Table of Contents 

 the addition of expenses from Sentinelle Medical since August 5, 2010 (the acquisition date), compensation and benefits, and engineering programs for a number of projects for product enhancements and new products. These increases were offset in part by a reduction of pre-release production costs that were incurred in fiscal 2009 related to the Adiana System that are no longer being incurred due to its FDA approval and commercial release in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Research and development primarily reflects spending on new product development programs, regulatory compliance and clinical research and trials. At any point in time, we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary period to period.  

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 4% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to higher distributor and third-party commissions, additional expenses related to recently released products, trade shows and website marketing partially offset by lower compensation and expenditures for advertising and medical education. We expect to incur additional expenses in fiscal 2011 with the launch of our direct-to-consumer advertising campaign for our NovaSure product.  

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 5% primarily due to higher legal fees related to increased litigation related activities, principally the Ethicon and SenoRx lawsuits, and higher employee compensation and benefits principally due to a transition payment to the former CEO of $1.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and related continuing retention compensation, an increase in the value of our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”), and increased bonuses, offset slightly by lower costs from the departure of certain employees that were not replaced. In addition, transaction costs related to acquisitions are now recorded as an expense and not capitalized as part of the purchase price, increasing general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2010. The increase in general and administrative expenses was partially offset by lower fees for accounting, tax and other consulting services, lower bad debt expense, and lower charges for the write-off of certain corporate-related fixed assets in fiscal 2010.  

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships and trade names related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally being amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 2 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed.  

Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, in connection with performing our Company-wide annual budgeting and forecasting process, we determined that indicators of impairment existed in our MammoSite reporting unit and recorded intangible asset impairment charges discussed above and below. The fair value of this reporting unit declined from fiscal 2009 primarily due to our reassessment of the overall market size of breast brachytherapy and a reduction in long-term growth projections. After determining the fair values of MammoSite’s long-lived assets, other than goodwill, and writing these assets down to their fair values, we performed the 2-step goodwill impairment test for MammoSite. As a result of this analysis, we recorded a $76.7 million goodwill impairment charge. No other reporting units were deemed to be impaired in fiscal 2010. During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, based upon a combination of factors, including the deteriorating macro-economic environment, declines in the stock market and the decline of our market capitalization significantly below the book value of our net assets, we concluded that potential goodwill impairment indicators existed as of December 27, 2008. As a result, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis as of December 27, 2008. Step 1 of the impairment analysis indicated that the carrying value of the net assets of certain of our reporting units, acquired in connection with the Cytyc acquisition, exceeded the estimated fair value of those reporting units. As a result, we were required to complete Step 2 of the impairment analysis to determine the amount, if any, of goodwill impairment charges. We completed Step 2 of this analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $2.34 billion in the three month period ended March 28, 2009. Refer to Note 2—“Intangible Assets and Goodwill” contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information.  

Impairment of Intangible Assets. As noted above under Cost of Product Sales—Impairment of Intangible Assets, we determined that the long-lived assets in the MammoSite reporting unit were impaired. As a result of  

52  

Table of Contents 

 this analysis, we recorded a $20.1 million charge to write down customer relationships and trade name intangible assets to their fair values. Refer to Note 2—“Intangible Assets and Goodwill” contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information.  

Litigation-Related Settlement Charges, Net. These charges are primarily comprised of our litigation with Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (“Ethicon”), a Johnson & Johnson operating company. We had been engaged in litigation in which Ethicon had alleged patent infringement by our ATEC biopsy system of certain of their patents, and Ethicon had made similar claims of our Eviva biopsy system. On February 17, 2010, we entered into a settlement agreement with Ethicon, and all outstanding litigation between the parties was dismissed. In connection with the settlement agreement, we agreed to make a one-time payment to Ethicon of $12.5 million and ongoing royalties for sales of our ATEC and EVIVA products, and Ethicon agreed to pay us ongoing royalties for sales of its Mammotome magnetic resonance imaging product.  

Acquired In-Process Research and Development Expenses. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we acquired certain assets that were determined to have no future alternative use and recorded a $2.0 million charge within our Diagnostics segment.  

Restructuring and Divestiture Charges. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we terminated the employment of certain employees in connection with completing the Sentinelle Medical acquisition and recorded severance and related benefit costs of $0.9 million. Certain employees will also receive stay bonuses, which are being recorded over the required service period. The terminations occurred prior to September 25, 2010. During the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we completed the sale of the capital stock of our organic photoconductor drum coating manufacturing operation in Shanghai, China for a net sales price of $3.8 million resulting in a loss on disposal of $0.3 million. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we closed this manufacturing operation due to Chinese government requirements to move the facility. In connection with this action, we recorded restructuring costs for severance benefits and other costs of $0.8 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2010, we incurred clean-up and closure costs of $0.3 million, net.  

Interest Income.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest income increased in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to an increase in invested balances partially offset by a decline in interest rates.  

Interest Expense.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest expense consists primarily of the interest costs and the related amortization of the debt discount of our 2.00% Convertible Notes as well as the amortization of deferred financing costs. In fiscal 2010, we adopted a new accounting standard, FASB Staff Position APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (FSP APB 14-1) (codified within Accounting Standards Codification 470, Debt), that changed the accounting for convertible debt instruments with  

53  

Table of Contents 

 cash settlement features and required us to allocate a portion of our Convertible Notes to equity based on the relative fair value of the embedded conversion feature in our Convertible Notes. This component is recorded as a debt discount and is amortized to interest expense. This new accounting standard was retrospectively applied to prior periods (see Note 5(a) contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for additional information). In addition, we incurred interest costs and the related amortization of deferred financing costs of our senior secured credit agreement. Interest expense decreased in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to paying down the outstanding principal amounts under our senior secured credit agreement, which were fully paid off in the third quarter of this year, partially offset by higher overall interest expense on our Convertible Notes due to using the effective interest method to amortize the debt discount.  

Other Income (Expense), net.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2010, this account was primarily comprised of an increase in the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our SERP of $1.3 million, which is driven by changes in stock market valuation, an increase related to non-income tax related government credits of $0.8 million partially offset by the write-off of a cost-method investment of $1.1 million due to an other-than-temporary impairment charge. In fiscal 2009, this account was primarily comprised of other-than-temporary impairment charges of cost-method investments of $2.2 million and foreign currency transaction losses of $2.3 million, offset by a $0.7 million increase in the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our SERP.  

Provision for Income Taxes.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was 14.2% of the pre-tax loss compared to 2.9% of the pre-tax loss in fiscal 2009. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was significantly impacted by the $76.7 million goodwill impairment charge recorded in the fourth quarter, substantially all of which was not deductible for tax purposes. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 was significantly impacted by the $2.34 billion goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, substantially all of which was not deductible for tax purposes.  

We anticipate an effective tax rate of approximately 35% to 36% of pre-tax earnings in fiscal 2011.  

Segment Results of Operations  

We report our business as four segments: Breast Health, Diagnostics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report. We measure segment performance based on total revenues and operating income or loss. Revenues from product sales of each of these segments are described in further detail above. The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Breast Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to a $54.1 million increase in service revenues that is substantially related to additional service contracts for the increased number of Selenia systems in our installed base partially offset by the decrease in product revenues of $27.4 million discussed above.  

The operating loss for this business segment decreased in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to a $220.2 million intangible asset and goodwill impairment charge related to our MammoSite reporting unit recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 as compared to the $265.9 million goodwill impairment charge related to our MammoSite reporting unit recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Excluding the impact of these goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, operating income decreased $16.8 million in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to the $12.5 million litigation settlement charge recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 for the settlement of the Ethicon matter discussed above. Overall, our gross margins declined significantly to 31% due to the intangible asset impairment charge to write down developed technology related to our MammoSite reporting unit. Excluding this impairment, gross margins were relatively flat at 47% in both the current and prior year periods. Gross margin was positively impacted by an improved service revenues gross margin as a result of our relatively fixed cost structure to support service contracts, which was partially offset by a reduction in product gross margin to 54% from 58% in fiscal 2009 primarily due to a shift in product mix of our Selenia digital mammography systems to lower margin configurations, a higher level of international sales, and slight pressure on average selling prices. In addition, the increase in service revenues, which have lower gross margins than product sales, resulted in overall lower gross margins. The fiscal 2010 operating loss included higher clinical trial expenses principally related to clinical trials for our tomosynthesis product, increased litigation costs and higher third-party commissions compared to fiscal 2009. Fiscal 2010 also included Sentinelle Medical operating expenses and acquisition related transaction costs and charges aggregating approximately $5.0 million.  

Diagnostics. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Diagnostics revenues increased in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to product sales discussed above.  

Operating income for this business segment in fiscal 2010 increased compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to a $908.3 million goodwill impairment charge and a $4.1 million intangible asset charge recorded in the second  

55  

Table of Contents 

 quarter of fiscal 2009. Excluding the impact of these charges, operating income was essentially flat in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 due to lower operating expenses, which declined $7.5 million, partially offset by a reduction in gross margin to 53% from 55%. Gross margin declined primarily due to lower absorption of manufacturing costs as a result of lower volumes of ThinPrep, and higher intangible asset amortization expense. Gross margin in fiscal 2009 included a $4.1 million intangible asset charge. Operating expenses declined due to lower legal expenses, lower employee compensation and benefits as a result of the departure of certain senior personnel. Operating expenses in fiscal 2010 included an acquired in-process research and development charge of $2.0 million for the acquisition of certain assets which had no future alternative use.  

GYN Surgical.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to the increase in product sales discussed above.  

The operating loss in this segment in fiscal 2009 included a $1.17 billion goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Excluding the impact of the goodwill impairment charge, operating income in fiscal 2010 decreased $15.1 million compared to fiscal 2009 due to a reduction in gross margin to 61% from 67% and higher operating expenses of $10.6 million compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. The decrease in gross margin is primarily due to unfavorable manufacturing variances related to the Adiana System, higher manufacturing and material costs related to our next generation NovaSure product and higher intangible asset amortization expense. Operating expenses increased primarily due to higher compensation costs for sales and marketing personnel as a result of an increase in headcount, higher commissions driven by an increase in revenues, and higher intangible asset amortization expense. In addition, we had higher Adiana System product launch activities as FDA approval was received in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.  

Skeletal Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Skeletal Health revenues decreased in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to the decline in product sales discussed above.  

Operating income for this business segment decreased primarily due to lower sales and higher operating expenses. Gross margin in fiscal 2010 was relatively flat at 42% compared to 41% in fiscal 2009.  

56  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal Year Ended September 26, 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 27, 2008  

Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2009, our product sales decreased 5% compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a $178.2 million decrease in revenues from our Breast Health products and, to a lesser extent, a $10.7 million decrease in revenues from our Skeletal Health products, partially offset by increased revenues in our Diagnostics and GYN Surgical segments of $69.5 million and $43.9 million, respectively. These increases were due in part to a full year of revenue for these segments in fiscal 2009 compared to the inclusion of only 49 weeks of operating results for fiscal 2008 as we acquired these segments with the Cytyc merger on October 22, 2007. Included in the increased Diagnostics’ revenue is additional revenue from Third Wave of $31.2 million. We acquired Third Wave in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and as such had a full year of revenue in fiscal 2009 compared to 11 weeks in fiscal 2008.  

Breast Health product sales decreased 24% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a $150.0 million decrease in digital mammography systems sales caused primarily by a reduction in the number of Selenia full field mammography systems and related components, including our CAD software, sold domestically, and to a lesser extent, internationally. In addition, we experienced a slight deterioration of average selling prices, both domestically and internationally, driven by the current economic environment for capital purchases, and less expensive configurations of the units being sold. Also contributing to the decrease was a $15.6 million decrease in multicare stereotactic table sales primarily attributable to a decrease in the number of systems sold, principally in the U.S. We attribute the decline in sales of breast health capital equipment and related products primarily to the more difficult economic and capital spending environment. We also experienced a decline in our MammoSite single-lumen products of $10.2 million due to increased competition as a result of lower reimbursement rates compared to multi-lumen products. Partially offsetting the declines in sales referenced above was an $18.2 million increase in revenues from our breast biopsy products.  

Diagnostics product sales, which include ThinPrep, Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test and our Third Wave products, increased 15% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. This increase was primarily due to the addition of Third Wave revenues of $37.1 million in fiscal 2009 compared to $5.9 million in fiscal 2008 and, to a lesser extent, an increase in the number of ThinPrep Pap Tests. The increase in fiscal 2009 is also due to the inclusion of Cytyc’s results for the full fiscal year versus 49 weeks in fiscal 2008. While we received FDA approval of the Cervista HPV HR and Cervista HPV 16/18 tests in March 2009, the revenue contribution was modest in fiscal 2009.  

GYN Surgical product sales, which include our NovaSure System and Adiana System, increased 20% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. This increase was primarily due to a significant increase in the number of NovaSure systems sold. The increase is also due to the inclusion of GYN Surgical’s revenue for the full fiscal year versus 49 weeks in fiscal 2008. Revenues from the Adiana System, which we received FDA approval on July 6, 2009, were modest as the US and international market launches were limited.  

57  

Table of Contents 

Skeletal Health product sales decreased 14% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a $5.8 million decrease in osteoporosis assessment product sales caused primarily by a decrease in the number of bone densitometry systems sold worldwide and lower average selling prices. This product line has faced a difficult capital equipment environment in the U.S. and the effects of the reduction in reimbursement for osteoporosis assessment exams in the U.S. In addition, we experienced a reduction in revenues of $2.8 million in mini-C arm sales and a decrease in extremity MRI sales of $2.1 million. The decrease in mini-C arm and extremity MRI sales was due to a decrease in the number of systems sold.  

In fiscal 2009 and 2008, approximately 80% of product sales were generated in the U.S., 12% in Europe, 4% in Asia, and 4% in other international markets.  

Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues is primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. Service and other revenues increased 22% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, primarily in our Breast Health segment, due to an increase in the number of service contracts executed driven by an increase in the installed base of our full field digital mammography systems and detectors.  

Cost of Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Product sales gross margin decreased to 56% in fiscal 2009 compared to 58% in fiscal 2008 primarily due to the significant increase in intangible asset amortization expense of $60.2 million, partially offset by the increase in sales of our higher gross margin disposable products in our Diagnostics and GYN Surgical segments.  

Cost of Product Sales. The cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales in fiscal 2009 was 33% compared to 35% in fiscal 2008. This improvement was primarily attributable to the increase in sales of our Diagnostics and GYN Surgical segments as a percentage of our total product sales as these products have a lower product cost as a percent of revenue compared to our Breast Health and Skeletal Health products. In addition, our cost of product sales in fiscal 2008 included additional costs associated with the write-up of acquired inventory to fair value in purchase accounting of $42.4 million related to the merger with Cytyc and $3.9 million related to the Third Wave acquisition. In fiscal 2009, the impact of these costs was only $1.2 million related to the Third Wave inventory write-up. Our margins in fiscal 2009 were also positively impacted by our cost reduction  

58  

Table of Contents 

 initiatives implemented in the first half of 2009, which included securing lower material costs from our vendors. Partially offsetting these improvements, was a decrease in gross margin in our Breast Health segment, primarily attributable to lower absorption of manufacturing costs due to lower volumes and to a lesser extent, a slight deterioration of average selling prices, driven by the current economic environment for capital purchases, and less expensive configurations of the units being sold.  

Fiscal 2009 and 2008 cost of product sales included charges of $0.7 million and $4.5 million, respectively, for impairment of MRI inventory and a related purchase obligation, which was fulfilled in fiscal 2009.  

Cost of Product Sales—Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets relates to acquired developed technology, which are generally being amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 15 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. The increase in amortization expense is due partly to the method of recognition based on expected economic benefits of the underlying assets, primarily related to the intangible assets acquired in the merger with Cytyc, which increased to $133.2 million from $80.2 million in fiscal 2008, and a full year of Third Wave related amortization of $7.8 million compared to $1.1 million in fiscal 2008.  

Cost of Product Sales—Impairment of Intangible Assets. During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we decided to discontinue selling a certain product acquired in the Third Wave acquisition as a result of communications from the FDA in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 regarding the approval process. This decision was an indicator of impairment, and we performed an impairment test, which indicated the undiscounted cash flows the asset group would generate over its remaining estimated useful life would not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the asset group. Due to the insufficient cash flows to be generated, the Company determined that the related asset group’s fair value was de minimus and recorded an impairment charge of $4.1 million comprised of developed technology of $2.6 million and capitalized license fees of $1.5 million.  

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues gross margin improved to 25% in fiscal 2009 from 8% in fiscal 2008 due in part to the improved absorption of fixed service costs and the continued growth of service contract revenue, primarily in the Breast Health segment. We increased the number of service contracts due to our increased installed base of our full field digital mammography systems and detectors. In addition, warranty costs decreased due to lower failure rates in our products.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Operating Expenses.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 16% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. These increases were primarily due to a full year of expenses of $20.7 million related to Third Wave compared to $3.7 million in fiscal 2008, and to a lesser extent a full year of operations from Cytyc in fiscal 2009 compared to 49 weeks in fiscal 2008. In addition, there was an increase in expenses related to the anticipated launch of the Adiana System and additional clinical spending for a number of projects. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in related headcount, bonus and other discretionary areas resulting from a number of cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of 2009. In fiscal 2008, we recorded a $1.8 million charge related to a change in control payment associated with the merger with Cytyc.  

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses decreased 9% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to lower commission expenses as a result of lower product revenues, lower bonuses driven by the Company’s operating results, reduced advertising and trade show expenditures, and other cost reductions including lower employee headcount resulting from our cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of 2009. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $6.8 million related to the inclusion of a full year of operations of Third Wave, as well as a full year of operations from Cytyc in fiscal 2009 compared to 49 weeks in fiscal 2008.  

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses were unchanged in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2009, these expenses increased $7.4 million related to the inclusion of a full year of operations of Third Wave, as well as a full year of operations from Cytyc in fiscal 2009 compared to 49 weeks in fiscal 2008. In addition, stock-based compensation expense was higher by $5.2 million in fiscal 2009. Offsetting these increases was a decrease in bonus, headcount and related compensation, and other expenses as a result of our cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of 2009.  

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships and trade names related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. The increases in these costs primarily relate to additional Cytyc-related amortization based on the pattern of economic benefit.  

Impairment of Goodwill. Based upon a combination of factors, including the deteriorating macro-economic environment, declines in the stock market and the decline of our market capitalization significantly below the book value of our net assets, we concluded that potential goodwill impairment indicators existed as of  

60  

Table of Contents 

 December 27, 2008. As a result, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis as of December 27, 2008. Step 1 of the impairment analysis indicated that the carrying value of the net assets of certain of our reporting units, acquired in connection with the Cytyc acquisition, exceeded the estimated fair value of those reporting units. As a result, we were required to complete Step 2 of the impairment analysis to determine the amount, if any, of goodwill impairment charges. We completed Step 2 of this analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $2.34 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Refer to Note 2 in our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information. We completed our fiscal 2009 annual goodwill impairment analysis as of the first day of our fourth quarter and no additional impairments were recorded.  

Impairment of Intangible Assets. Subsequent to the merger with Cytyc, we discontinued the development of Cytyc’s Helica Thermal Coagulator System product, used for the treatment of endometriosis. We will not realize any future cash flows from this product. Our intangible asset valuation for Cytyc included approximately $2.9 million related to customer relationships for Helica. As a result of the Helica product discontinuation, we recorded an impairment charge of $2.9 million in fiscal 2008.  

Acquired In-Process Research and Development Expenses. The $565.2 million charge for in-process research and development expense is comprised of a $370.0 million charge recorded in connection with our merger with Cytyc and a $195.2 million charge recorded in connection with the Third Wave acquisition. Both of these charges are described in further detail above under the respective acquisitions.  

Restructuring Charges. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we closed our manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China due to Chinese government requirements to move the facility. This facility, which manufactured organic photoconductor drum coatings, was acquired in connection with the AEG acquisition in 2006, and contributed approximately $9.7 million of revenue to our Breast Health business in fiscal 2009. In connection with this action, we recorded severance benefits and other costs of $0.8 million. The majority of employees were terminated and all termination benefits were paid as of September 26, 2009. Other costs were recorded in connection with this closure of $1.9 million primarily related to the impairment of manufacturing equipment, accelerated depreciation expense, and the write-off of inventory, all of which was recorded in cost of product sales. During the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded $6.4 million in compensation charges, including $1.9 million in stock-based compensation, related to the resignation of our former Executive Chairman, which was effective May 20, 2008. The cash payments were made during fiscal 2008.  

Interest Income.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest income decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to a decline in interest rates.  

Interest Expense.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest expense consists primarily of the interest costs on our debt, amortization of the debt discount on our 2.00% Convertible Notes, and amortization of deferred financing costs for both our senior secured credit agreement entered into on October 22, 2007 in connection with the merger with Cytyc and amended on July 17,  

61  

Table of Contents 

 2008 in connection with the Third Wave acquisition and our 2.00% Convertible Notes that were issued in December 2007 to pay down a portion of the term loans, which had higher interest rates. Effective in fiscal 2010, we implemented FSP APB 14-1 that changed the accounting for convertible debt instruments with cash settlement features, which is applicable to our Convertible Notes. FSP APB 14-1 has been retrospectively applied to fiscal 2009 and 2008 beginning December 10, 2007, the date the Convertible Notes were issued. The impact of adoption of FSP APB 14-1 increased net interest expense in fiscal 2009 and 2008 by $65.5 million and $48.1 million, respectively. See Note 5(a) contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information.  

Interest expense in fiscal 2009 increased slightly compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in the amortization of the debt discount on our Convertible Notes of $67.7 million in fiscal 2009 compared to $50.1 million in fiscal 2008. This increase was offset by lower interest expense from lower term loan balances as we paid them down quarterly and lower interest rates on those balances. In addition to the required principal payments, we made voluntary payments throughout the year resulting in a total decrease of $290.8 million in the principal of our term loans during fiscal 2009. Additionally, we had the benefit of the lower interest rates from our Convertible Notes for all of fiscal 2009 compared to approximately nine months in fiscal 2008 as prior to the issuance of the Convertible Notes we were paying a higher interest rate on the term loans, which had higher outstanding balances.  

Other (Expense) Income, net.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2009, other (expense) income, net primarily includes other-than-temporary impairment charges of cost-method investments of $2.2 million and foreign currency transaction losses of $2.3 million, offset by an increase of $0.7 million in the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our SERP. Included in the foreign currency transaction losses is a gain of $0.7 million related to the elimination of the cumulative translation adjustment related to our manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China due to its closure. In fiscal 2008, these balances were primarily related to a decrease in the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our SERP of $1.4 million and foreign currency transaction losses of $0.7 million. The increase in foreign currency losses is due to the significant volatility of exchange rates during fiscal 2009, primarily the Euro.  

Provision for Income Taxes.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 was 2.9% of the pre-tax loss compared to 27.0% of the pre-tax loss in fiscal 2008. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 was significantly impacted by the $2.34 billion goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, substantially all of which is not deductible for tax purposes. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 was significantly impacted by the acquired in-process research and development charge related to the merger with Cytyc and Third Wave acquisition, which is not tax deductible.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Segment Results of Operations  

The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment.  

Breast Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Breast Health revenues decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to the $178.2 million decrease in product sales discussed above, partially offset by an increase of $46.2 million in service revenues that is substantially related to additional service contracts for the increased number of Selenia systems in our installed base.  

This segment incurred an operating loss in fiscal 2009 compared to operating income in fiscal 2008 primarily due to a $265.9 million goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter related to our MammoSite reporting unit in addition to the reduction of revenue discussed above and lower gross margins, partially offset by a reduction of operating expenses from our cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of fiscal 2009. Our gross margin in this business segment was 47% in fiscal 2009 compared to 51% in fiscal 2008. The decrease in gross margin was primarily attributable to lower absorption of manufacturing costs due to lower volumes, an increase of $8.8 million in amortization expense of intangible assets, and to a lesser extent, a slight deterioration of average selling prices driven by the current economic environment for capital purchases, and less expensive configurations of the units being sold. In addition, included in cost of product sales was approximately $1.9 million of costs related to the closure of our manufacturing facility in Shanghai. This segment incurred charges of $3.3 million in fiscal 2008 related to sales of acquired MammoSite inventory that was written up to fair value for purchase accounting purposes.  

Diagnostics.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Diagnostics revenues increased in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to the increase in product sales discussed above.  

The operating loss in this segment in fiscal 2009 included a $908.3 million goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter, intangible asset amortization of $119.2 million and a full year of operating costs related to Third Wave compared to 11 weeks in fiscal 2008. Partially offsetting these additional charges in fiscal 2009 were reduced operating expenses resulting from our cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of fiscal 2009. The operating loss in fiscal 2008 included a $195.2 million charge for in-process research and  

63  

Table of Contents 

 development related to the Third Wave acquisition, an $85.2 million charge for in-process research and development related to the merger with Cytyc, intangible asset amortization of $68.7 million, and a $3.6 million restructuring charge in the third quarter related to the resignation of our former Executive Chairman in May 2008. Gross margin in fiscal 2009 was 55% compared to 56% in fiscal 2008. The reduction in gross margin was primarily due to an increase in amortization expense due to an increase of $27.6 million and $6.7 million in the amortization of Cytyc and Third Wave related intangible assets, respectively. In addition, gross margin in fiscal 2009 included the write-off of intangible assets of $4.1 million and $1.2 million of charges for the write-up to fair value of acquired inventory sold by Third Wave in fiscal 2009. Gross margin in fiscal 2008 included charges of $26.6 million and $3.9 million, respectively, for the write-up to fair value of acquired Cytyc and Third Wave inventory sold during fiscal 2008.  

GYN Surgical.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 due to the increase in product sales discussed above. The operating loss in this segment in fiscal 2009 included a $1.17 billion goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter and additional amortization expense of $26.5 million. Partially offsetting these charges in fiscal 2009 was the increase in revenue discussed above as well as a decrease in operating expenses as a result of cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of this year. The operating loss in fiscal 2008 included a $284.8 million charge for in-process research and development related to the merger with Cytyc, a $2.9 million impairment charge for the Helica Thermal Coagulator System intangibles and a $2.4 million restructuring charge in the third quarter related to the resignation of our former Executive Chairman in May 2008. Our gross margin in this business segment was 67% in both fiscal 2009 and 2008. Gross margin in fiscal 2009 and 2008 included amortization expense from intangible assets of $38.2 million and $21.0 million, respectively, and fiscal 2008 included a $12.4 million charge for the write-up to fair value of Cytyc inventory that was sold during the first quarter of fiscal 2008.  

Skeletal Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Skeletal Health revenues decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to the decline in product sales discussed above. Our gross margin in this business segment was 41% compared to 34% in fiscal 2008. The improvement was primarily due to reductions in material costs and in manufacturing spending. Operating income for this segment improved due to the improved gross margin and from cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of 2009. The operating income and gross margin in fiscal 2009 included a $0.7 million charge associated with MRI inventory and purchase obligations compared to $4.5 million in fiscal 2008.  

64  

Table of Contents 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

At September 25, 2010, we had $657.0 million of working capital, and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $515.6 million. Our cash and cash equivalents increased $222.4 million during fiscal 2010, primarily from cash generated from our operations and the receipt of a $70.0 million payment related to the potential sale of our Gestiva assets. These cash sources were partially offset by our financing activities relating to our repayment of amounts outstanding under our credit agreement and cash used in our investing activities primarily to pay the consideration for the Sentinelle Medical acquisition and to a lesser extent for purchases of property and equipment and placement of equipment under customer usage agreements.  

Our operating activities generated $456.7 million of cash, which included a net loss of $62.8 million reduced primarily by non-cash charges for goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $220.2 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $294.8 million, non-cash interest expense of $86.6 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $34.2 million. These adjustments to net loss were partially offset by a decrease in our net deferred taxes liabilities of $121.7 million primarily the result of our amortization of intangible assets as well as our intangible asset impairment charges. Cash provided by operations also included changes in our operating assets and liabilities reflecting an increase in deferred revenue of $21.3 million and an increase in accounts payable of $7.2 million. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to an increase in the number of service contracts as our installed base of our Breast Health products continues to grow. The increase in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Cash provided by operations was offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $20.2 million, an increase of inventories of $5.2 million and an increase in prepaid income taxes of $3.8 million. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to higher revenues in the current quarter compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The increase in inventories was primarily related to the increase in components on hand in support of our higher sales volume as well as production of newly released products. The increase in prepaid income taxes is based on timing of estimated tax payments relative to our income tax provision.  

During fiscal 2010, we used $67.0 million of cash in investing activities. This use of cash was primarily attributable to the net payment of $84.3 million of consideration for the Sentinelle Medical acquisition and $28.0 million for purchases of property and equipment, which consisted primarily of manufacturing equipment, and computer software and hardware. We also invested $18.6 million in equipment under customer usage agreements, and we purchased of $5.3 million of life insurance contracts to fund future payments under our SERP. These uses of cash were partially offset by the receipt of a $70.0 million payment from KV in connection with an amendment to the existing agreement to sell the rights to our Gestiva asset to KV upon FDA approval.  

During fiscal 2010, we used $167.6 million of cash in financing activities, substantially for repayments of the term loans under our credit agreement of $174.2 million and repayments of $2.8 million under certain notes payable. We also purchased substantially all of the remaining non-controlling interest of our Third Wave Japan subsidiary for $2.7 million. Offsetting these payments was proceeds of $12.6 million from the exercise of stock options and the purchase of common shares under the employee stock purchase plan.  

Debt  

We had total recorded debt outstanding of $1.45 billion at September 25, 2010, which is primarily comprised of our Convertible Notes of $1.45 billion (principal $1.725 billion).  

Convertible Notes.  

Original Convertible Notes. On December 10, 2007, we issued and sold $1.725 billion, at par, of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2037 (“Original Notes”). The net proceeds from the offering was approximately $1.69 billion, after deducting the underwriters’ discounts and estimated offering expenses of approximately $1.5 million payable by us, and was used to repay a portion of our then outstanding senior secured indebtedness under our Credit Agreement. At September 25, 2010, the Original Notes are recorded at $1.45 billion, which is net of the unamortized debt discount attributed to the embedded conversion feature of the Original Notes in accordance  

65  

Table of Contents 

 with FSP APB 14-1. See Note 5(a) contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information. On November 18, 2010, we entered into separate, privately-negotiated exchange agreements under which we retired $450.0 million in aggregate principal of our Original Notes for $450.0 million in aggregate principal of new 2.00% Convertible Exchange Senior Notes due 2037 (“Exchange Notes”). Following these transactions, $1.275 billion in principal amount of the Original Notes remain outstanding.  

Holders may require us to repurchase the Original Notes on December 13, 2013, and on each of December 15, 2017, 2022, 2027 and 2032 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We may redeem any of the Original Notes beginning December 18, 2013, by giving holders at least 30 days’ notice. We may redeem the Original Notes either in whole or in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and liquidated damages, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date.  

The Original Notes bear interest at a rate of 2.00% per year on the principal amount, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning June 15, 2008, and ending on December 15, 2013 and will accrete principal from December 15, 2013 at a rate that provides holders with an aggregate annual yield to maturity of 2.00% per year. Beginning with the six month interest period commencing December 15, 2013, we will pay contingent interest during any six month interest period to the holders of Original Notes if the “trading price”, as defined, of the Original Notes for each of the five trading days ending on the second trading day immediately preceding the first day of the applicable six month interest period equals or exceeds 120% of the accreted principal amount of the Original Notes. The holders of the Original Notes may convert the Original Notes into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of approximately $38.60 per share, subject to adjustment, prior to the close of business on September 15, 2037, subject to prior redemption or repurchase of the Original Notes, under any of the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending December 31, 2007 if the last reported sale price of our common stock exceeds 130% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding calendar quarter; (2) during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per note for each day of such period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such day; (3) if the Original Notes have been called for redemption; or (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.  

In lieu of delivery of shares of our common stock in satisfaction of our obligation upon conversion of the Original Notes, we may elect to deliver cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. If we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation solely in cash, we will deliver cash in an amount as provided in the indenture for the Original Notes. If we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, we will deliver up to a specified dollar amount of cash per $1,000 original principal amount of Original Notes, and will settle the remainder of our conversion obligation in shares of our common stock, in each case based on the daily conversion value calculated as provided in the indenture for the Original Notes. In addition, at any time on or prior to the 35th scheduled trading day prior to the maturity date of the Original Notes, we may make an irrevocable election to settle conversions of the Original Notes either solely in cash or in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock with a specified cash amount at least equal to the accreted principal amount of the Original Notes. This net share settlement election is in our sole discretion and does not require the consent of holders of the Original Notes. It is our current intent and policy to settle any conversion of the Original Notes as if we had elected to make the net share settlement election.  

The Original Notes are our senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all of our existing and future senior unsecured debt and prior to all future subordinated debt. The Original Notes are effectively subordinated to any future secured indebtedness to the extent of the collateral securing such indebtedness, and structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries.  

Exchange Convertible Notes. On November 18, 2010, pursuant to separate, privately-negotiated exchange agreements, we retired $450.0 million in aggregate principal of our Original Notes for $450.0 million in aggregate principal of new 2.00% Convertible Exchange Senior Notes due 2037 (Exchange Notes).  

66  

Table of Contents 

Holders may require us to repurchase the Exchange Notes on December 15, 2016, and on each of December 15, 2020, December 15, 2025, December 13, 2030 and December 14, 2035 or upon a fundamental change, as described in the Second Supplemental Indenture, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We may redeem any of the notes beginning December 19, 2016, by giving holders at least 30 days’ notice. We may redeem the Exchange Notes either in whole or in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and liquidated damages, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date.  

The Exchange Notes bear interest at a rate of 2.00% per year on the principal amount, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning December 15, 2010, and ending on December 15, 2016 and will accrete principal from December 15, 2016 at a rate that provides holders with an aggregate annual yield to maturity of 2.00% per year. Beginning with the six month interest period commencing December 15, 2016, we will pay contingent interest during any six month interest period to the holders of Exchange Notes if the “trading price”, as defined, of the Exchange Notes for each of the five trading days ending on the second trading day immediately preceding the first day of the applicable six month interest period equals or exceeds 120% of the accreted principal amount of the Exchange Notes. The holders of the Exchange Notes may convert the Exchange Notes into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of approximately $23.03 per share, subject to adjustment, prior to the close of business on September 15, 2037, subject to prior redemption or repurchase of the Exchange Notes, under any of the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending December 31, 2010 if the last reported sale price of our common stock exceeds 130% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding calendar quarter; (2) during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per note for each day of such period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such day; (3) if the Exchange Notes have been called for redemption; or (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.  

In lieu of delivery of shares of our common stock in satisfaction of our obligation upon conversion of the Exchange Notes, we may elect to deliver cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. If we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation solely in cash, we will deliver cash in an amount as provided in the indenture for the Exchange Notes. If we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, we will deliver up to a specified dollar amount of cash per $1,000 original principal amount of Exchange Notes, and will settle the remainder of our conversion obligation in shares of our common stock, in each case based on the daily conversion value calculated as provided in the indenture for the Exchange Notes. In addition, at any time on or prior to the 35th scheduled trading day prior to the maturity date of the Exchange Notes, we may make an irrevocable election to settle conversions of the Exchange Notes either solely in cash or in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock with a specified cash amount at least equal to the accreted principal amount of the Exchange Notes. This net share settlement election is in our sole discretion and does not require the consent of holders of the Exchange Notes. It is our current intent and policy to settle any conversion of the Exchange Notes as if we had elected to make the net share settlement election.  

The Exchange Notes are our senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all of our existing and future senior unsecured debt and prior to all future subordinated debt. The Exchange Notes are effectively subordinated to any future secured indebtedness to the extent of the collateral securing such indebtedness, and structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries.  

Credit Agreement  

In 2008, in connection with our acquisition of Third Wave, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Amended Credit Agreement) with Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and certain other lenders (collectively, the Lenders) and secured financing in an aggregate amount of up to $800 million. The credit facility consisted of $400 million under a senior secured tranche A term loan (Term Loan A); $200 million under a senior secured tranche B term loan (Term Loan B); and $200 million under a senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Facility). We borrowed $540 million under the term loans. During fiscal 2010, we paid  

67  

Table of Contents 

 off the remaining outstanding principal under the term loans. On June 24, 2010, we gave notice of the termination of the Amended Credit Agreement to the Lenders, as a result the Revolving Facility is no longer available.  

Sale of Gestiva  

On January 16, 2008, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell full U.S. and world-wide rights to our Gestiva pharmaceutical product to K-V Pharmaceutical Company (“KV”) upon approval of the pending Gestiva new drug application (the “Gestiva NDA”) by the FDA for a purchase price of $82.0 million. The Gestiva product is a drug that, if approved by the FDA, could be used in the prevention of preterm births in pregnant women with a history of at least one spontaneous preterm birth. Under this agreement, we received $9.5 million of the purchase price in fiscal 2008, and the balance was due upon final approval of the Gestiva NDA by the FDA on or before February 19, 2010 and the production of a quantity of Gestiva suitable to enable the commercial launch of the product. This $9.5 million was recorded as a deferred gain within current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Either party had the right to terminate the agreement if FDA approval was not obtained by February 19, 2010. On January 8, 2010, the parties executed an amendment to the agreement eliminating the date by which FDA approval must be received and extending the term indefinitely. In consideration of executing this amendment, the purchase price was increased to $199.5 million. We received $70.0 million upon the signing of the amendment, which has been recorded as a deferred gain, and are due to receive an additional $25.0 million upon FDA approval of the product and an additional $95.0 million over a nine-month period beginning one year following FDA approval.  

Under the arrangement, we are continuing our efforts to obtain FDA approval of the Gestiva NDA. All costs incurred in these efforts are being reimbursed by KV and recorded as a credit against research and development expenses. These reimbursed costs have not been material to date on an annual basis. We expect that the amounts recorded in deferred gain will be recognized upon the closing of the transaction following final FDA approval of the Gestiva NDA. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain the requisite FDA approval, that the transaction will be completed or that we will receive the balance of the purchase price. Moreover, if KV terminates the agreement prior to the transfer of the rights to the Gestiva product as a result of a breach by us of a material representation, warranty, covenant or agreement, we will be required to return the funds previously received as well as expenses reimbursed by KV.  

Contingent Earn-Out Payments.  

As a result of the merger with Cytyc, we assumed the obligation to the former Adiana stockholders to make contingent earn-out payments tied to the achievement of milestones. The milestone payments include potential contingent payments of up to $155 million based on worldwide sales of the Adiana System in the first year following FDA approval (“First Contingent Period”) and on annual incremental sales growth thereafter through December 31, 2012. We received FDA approval of the Adiana System on July 6, 2009, and we began accruing contingent consideration in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 based on the defined percentage of worldwide sales of the product. These amounts are being recorded as additional purchase price. The total accrued contingent consideration, net at September 25, 2010 is $30.9 million, of which $25.1 million was earned during the First Contingent Period. Under the terms of the agreement, the First Contingent Period payment was paid to the Adiana shareholders in October 2010, net of certain holdbacks. The agreement includes an indemnification provision that provides for the reimbursement of qualifying legal expenses in defense of the Adiana intellectual property, and we have the right to offset contingent consideration payments to the Adiana shareholders with these qualifying legal costs.  

On August 5, 2010, we acquired Sentinelle Medical. In addition to the up-front cash payment of $84.8 million, which was net of certain adjustments, we incurred the obligation to the former Sentinelle Medical stockholders to make contingent payouts over a two-year period of up to a maximum of $250 million. The contingent payments are based on a multiple of incremental revenue growth during the two-year period following the completion of the acquisition. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we recorded  

68  

Table of Contents 

 the acquisition date fair value of the contingent consideration obligation of $29.5 million based on our estimates and assumptions of revenue growth. Of this amount, $21.7 million is recorded as a current liability and $7.8 million is recorded as a long-term liability.  

The contractual obligations table below does not include the obligation to pay contingent consideration to the shareholders of Sentinelle Medical or Adiana.  

Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of September 25, 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Our Convertible Notes can first be put to us on December 13, 2013 and we have assumed for purpose of the above table that they will be paid off in fiscal 2014. On November 18, 2010, we exchanged Exchange Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $450.0 million for Original Notes in the aggregate principal amount of $450.0 million. The first put date on the Exchange Notes is December 15, 2016. The above table does not reflect this exchange. See above under Convertible Notes for additional information.  

 (2) We acquired the financing leases in connection with our acquisition of Cytyc in fiscal 2008. Cytyc had executed two leases for an office building and for a manufacturing facility, which were required to be recorded on our balance sheet under US GAAP. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information.  

 (3) This represents certain non-cancelable supply contracts. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability or cost effectiveness, certain key components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. To assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, long-term supply contracts have been executed with these suppliers. In certain of these contracts, a minimum purchase commitment has been established.  

 (4) Pension obligations do not include our obligation under the SERP of $15.9 million, which is recorded as a current liability. The SERP benefits are generally paid out at retirement or termination of employment.  

 (5) This represents a private equity investment commitment with a limited liability partnership, which could be paid over the succeeding two years.  

The above table does not reflect our long-term liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions recorded under FIN 48 (codified primarily in ASC 740, Income Taxes) totaling $18.5 million. Due to the complexity associated with tax uncertainties, we cannot reasonably make a reliable estimate of the period in which we expect to settle these non-current liabilities. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information on our unrecognized tax benefits. In addition, certain of our cost method equity investments give us the option to acquire the company in the future. Since it is not possible to estimate when, or even if, we will exercise our option to acquire these companies, we have not included these future potential payments in the table above.  

69  

Table of Contents 

Future Liquidity Considerations  

We expect to continue to review and evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, and strategic alliances that we believe will complement our current or future business. Subject to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and the general disclaimers set forth in our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Report, we believe that cash flow from operations will provide us with sufficient funds in order to fund our expected operations over the next twelve months. Our longer-term liquidity is contingent upon future operating performance. We may also require additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other investments, or to repay our convertible notes. The holders of the Original Notes in the principal amount of $1.275 billion may require us to repurchase the notes on December 13, 2013, and on each of December 15, 2017, 2022, 2027 and 2032 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, and the holders of the Exchange Notes in the principal amount of $450.0 million may require us to repurchase the notes on December 15, 2016, December 15, 2020, December 15, 2025, December 13, 2030 and December 14, 2035. These capital requirements could be substantial. Our operating performance may also be affected by matters discussed under the above-referenced Risk Factors as elsewhere in this report. These risks, trends and uncertainties may also adversely affect our long-term liquidity.  

Legal Contingencies  

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and claims. In connection with these legal proceedings and claims, management periodically reviews estimates of potential costs to be incurred by us in connection with the adjudication or settlement, if any, of these proceedings. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based on an analysis of potential litigation outcomes and settlement strategies. In accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies, loss contingencies are accrued if, in the opinion of management, an adverse outcome is probable and such outcome can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that future results for any particular quarter or annual period may be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies relating to these proceedings.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements, allowance for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, valuations and purchase price allocations related to business combinations, expected future cash flows including growth rates, discount rates, terminal values and other assumptions used to evaluate the recoverability of long-lived assets and goodwill, estimated fair values of intangible assets and goodwill, amortization methods and periods, warranty reserves, certain accrued expenses, restructuring and other related charges, stock-based compensation, contingent liabilities, tax reserves and recoverability of our net deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate. Any differences may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  

The following is a discussion of what we believe to be the more significant critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

Inventory  

Our inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. As a developer and manufacturer of high technology medical equipment, we may be exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete  

70  

Table of Contents 

 or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures on products and prices, reliability and replacement of and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate our ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product expiration or end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Assumptions used in determining our estimates of future product demand may prove to be incorrect, in which case the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory would have to be adjusted in the future. If inventory is determined to be overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs as cost of goods sold at the time of such determination. Although considerable effort is made to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand could have a significant negative impact on the value of our inventory and our reported operating results. Additionally, purchasing requirements and alternative usage avenues are explored within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to its net realizable value.  

Provisions for excess or obsolete inventory are primarily based on our estimates of forecasted net sales and service usage levels. A significant change in the timing or level of demand for our products as compared to forecasted amounts may result in recording additional provisions for excess or expired inventory in the future. We record provisions for excess or obsolete inventory as cost of product revenue.  

Accounts Receivable Reserves  

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our trade receivables based on a combination of factors, including a dialogue with the customer to determine the cause of non-payment, and evaluation of the customer’s current financial situation. In the event it is determined that the customer may not be able to meet its full obligation to us, we record a specific allowance to reduce the receivable to the amount that we expect to recover given all information present. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and our assessment of the customer’s current credit worthiness. We continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates in the future. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, for example as a result of the recent financial and economic turmoil or otherwise, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.  

We also record a provision for estimated sales returns and allowances on product and service related sales in the same period as the related revenues are recorded. These estimates are based on the specific facts and circumstances of particular orders, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. If the data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect reserve requirements, then a change in the allowances would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be adversely affected.  

Valuation of Business Combinations  

We record tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting. Amounts paid for each acquisition are allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition. As a result of our adoption of ASC 805 in fiscal 2010, contingent consideration is recorded at fair value as measured on the date of acquisition. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections under various potential scenarios, which are probability weighted as to the outcome of each scenario. These cash flow projections are discounted with an  

71  

Table of Contents 

 appropriate risk adjusted rate. On an ongoing basis until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is reassessed at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment and actual results are likely to differ from the amounts originally recorded.  

The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. The valuation of purchased research and development represents the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition related to in-process projects. Our purchased research and development represents the value of in-process projects that have not yet reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future uses as of the date of acquisition. As a result of our adoption of ASC 805, we capitalize these assets and record them in our consolidated balance sheet. Under ASC 805, in-process research and development assets are evaluated for impairment similar to goodwill and once the project is complete, if at all, the asset is amortized over its remaining useful life. Prior to the adoption of ASC 805, we expensed the value attributable to these in-process projects at the time of the acquisition. If the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial benefits expected for these projects or for the acquisitions as a whole and impairments may result.  

We use the income approach to determine the fair values of our purchased research and development. This approach determines fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to an in-process project over its useful life and then discounting these after-tax cash flows back to a present value. We base our revenue assumptions on estimates of relevant market sizes, expected market growth rates, expected trends in technology and expected product introductions by competitors. In arriving at the value of the in-process projects, we consider, among other factors, the in-process projects’ stage of completion, the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date, the costs already incurred, the projected costs to complete, the contribution of core technologies and other acquired assets, the expected introduction date and the estimated useful life of the technology. We base the discount rate used to arrive at a present value as of the date of acquisition on the time value of money and medical technology investment risk factors. For the in-process projects we acquired in connection with our fiscal 2010 and 2008 acquisitions, we used risk-adjusted discount rates to discount our projected cash flows, ranging from 12.5% to 20%. We believe that the estimated purchased research and development amounts so determined represent the fair value at the date of acquisition and do not exceed the amount a third party would pay for the projects.  

We have also used the income approach, as described above, to determine the estimated fair value of certain other identifiable intangible assets including developed technology, customer relationships and trade names. Developed technology represents patented and unpatented technology and know-how. Customer relationships represent established relationships with customers, which provide a ready channel for the sale of additional products and services. Trade names represent acquired product names that we intend to continue to utilize.  

Intangible Assets and Goodwill  

Intangible Assets  

We amortize our intangible assets that have finite lives using either the straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefit of the asset is expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization is recorded over the estimated useful lives ranging from 2 to 30 years. We review our intangible assets subject to amortization to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a change in the remaining useful life. If the carrying value of an asset exceeds its undiscounted cash flows, we will write-down the carrying value of the intangible asset to its fair value in the period identified. In assessing fair value, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and discount rates. If these estimates or related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. We generally calculate fair  

72  

Table of Contents 

 value as the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. If the estimate of an intangible asset’s remaining useful life is changed, we will amortize the remaining carrying value of the intangible asset prospectively over the revised remaining useful life.  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, in connection with our company-wide annual budgeting and strategic planning process, we determined that indicators of impairment existed in our MammoSite reporting unit, which is included in the Breast Health reportable segment, due to changing market conditions for the brachytherapy market, including downward pressure on procedure volumes due to the continuing adverse economic environment and current trends in breast cancer management, as well as competitive pricing pressures and competition from existing and alternative new technologies. These factors resulted in us lowering the financial projections for MammoSite. As a result, we performed the first step in the long-lived assets impairment test pursuant to ASC 360 and compared MammoSite’s forecasted undiscounted cash flows to the carrying value of its net assets. These undiscounted cash flows were insufficient to recover MammoSite’s carrying value. Therefore, we determined the fair value of MammoSite’s long-lived assets, which are primarily intangible assets, using a discounted cash flow technique. The expected future cash flows are Level 3 inputs under ASC 820 and are those expected to be generated by the market participants, discounted at an appropriate risk-adjusted rate. Based on the fair value of the long-lived assets, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $143.5 million to write these intangible assets down to their fair value. The charge was comprised of $123.4 million related to developed technology, which was recorded in cost of product sales, $11.8 million related to customer relationships and $8.3 million related to trade names, which were recorded in impairment of intangible assets. In addition, under the annual goodwill impairment test, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $76.7 million (see below for further discussion).  

Goodwill  

We test goodwill at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Events that would indicate impairment and trigger an interim impairment assessment include, but are not limited to current economic and market conditions, including a decline in market capitalization, a significant adverse change in legal factors, business climate or operational performance of the business, and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Our annual impairment test date is the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter.  

In performing the test, we utilize the two-step approach prescribed under ASC 350. The first step requires a comparison of the carrying value of the reporting units, as defined, to the fair value of these units. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, including an independent valuation to conduct this test. The valuation is based upon expected future discounted operating cash flows of the reporting unit as well as analysis of recent sales or offerings of similar companies. We base the discount rate used to arrive at a present value as the date of the impairment test on the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) of market participants. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we will perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill to its carrying value.  

We conducted our fiscal 2010 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter, consistent with our policy. We utilized discounted cash flow (“DCF”) and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of June 27, 2010, and believe we have used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows and market multiples. As a result of completing Step 1, all of the Company’s reporting units, except MammoSite, had fair values exceeding their carrying values, and as such, Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for these reporting units. MammoSite’s fair value has declined from fiscal 2009 primarily due to a reduction in its long-term growth rates. The changes in MammoSite’s financial projections are a result of changing market conditions for the brachytherapy market, including downward pressure on procedure volumes due to the continuing adverse economic environment and current  

73  

Table of Contents 

 trends in breast cancer management, as well as competitive pricing pressures and competition from existing and alternative new technologies. The DCF calculation of fair value was positively impacted by a reduction in the discount rate to 11.0% from 12.5% used in the fiscal 2009 annual impairment test.  

We performed the Step 2 analysis for MammoSite, consistent with the procedures described above, and recorded a $76.7 million goodwill impairment charge. For illustrative purposes had the fair value of MammoSite been 10% lower, the charge would have been higher by $2.5 million. If the fair value of the Company’s other reporting units had been lower by 10%, one reporting unit would have failed Step 1 requiring a Step 2 analysis. This reporting unit is in the Breast Health reportable segment and had a fair value at the annual impairment measurement date that exceeded its carrying value by 4% with goodwill of $256.5 million. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined by use of the DCF, and the key assumptions that drive the fair value in this model are the WACC, terminal values, growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, this would likely result in a higher WACC because market participants would require a higher rate of return. In the DCF as the WACC increases, the fair value decreases. The other significant factor in the DCF is our projected financial information (i.e., amount and timing of expected future cash flows and growth rates) and if these assumptions were to be adversely impacted, this could result in a reduction of the fair value of this reporting unit. For our other reporting units with goodwill aggregating $1.85 billion, we believe that these reporting units are not at risk of failing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test.  

During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, based upon a combination of factors, including the deteriorating macro-economic environment, declines in the stock market and the decline of our market capitalization significantly below the book value of our net assets, we concluded that potential goodwill impairment indicators existed as of December 27, 2008. As a result, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis as of December 27, 2008. Step 1 of the impairment analysis indicated that the carrying value of the net assets of certain reporting units, acquired in connection with the Cytyc acquisition, exceeded the estimated fair value of those reporting units. As a result, we were required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount, if any, of goodwill impairment charges for each of the applicable reporting units. The Step 2 analysis required us to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation for each of these reporting units to determine the implied fair value of goodwill and to compare the implied fair value of goodwill to the recorded amount of goodwill by reporting unit. Due to the complexities and time involved in preparing the Step 1 analysis, we had not commenced the Step 2 analysis as of February 5, 2009, the date we filed our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 27, 2008. As a result of the fact that we had not commenced the Step 2 analysis and the complexity of the analysis required to complete the Step 2 analysis, we were unable to determine that an impairment loss, in accordance with ASC 450, was both probable and reasonably estimable at December 27, 2008. We completed the Step 2 analysis during our second quarter of fiscal 2009, which resulted in an aggregate goodwill impairment charge of $2.34 billion. This impairment charge is comprised of $1.17 billion for GYN Surgical, $908.3 million for Diagnostics, and $265.9 million for Breast Health related to our MammoSite reporting unit acquired from Cytyc. We believe that our procedures and related assumptions for estimating the reporting units’ fair value are reasonable and consistent with the market conditions that existed at the time of the impairment test.  

For illustrative purposes, had the fair values of each reporting unit for which we recorded goodwill impairment charges in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 been lower by 10% as of December 27, 2008, we would have recorded an additional impairment charge of $435.5 million. Based on our estimates as of December 27, 2008, the impact of reducing our fair value estimates for our other reporting units, for which we did not record any goodwill impairment charges, by 10% would have had no impact on the goodwill assessment for those reporting units.  

We conducted our annual impairment test as of the first day of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. In order to complete the annual impairment test, we updated our interim impairment test results and performed detailed analyses estimating the fair value of most of our reporting units utilizing our fiscal 2010 forecast with updated  

74  

Table of Contents 

 long-term growth assumptions. For one reporting unit, we utilized the results of our interim impairment test. Pursuant to ASC 350-20-35-29, we concluded that it met the required criteria to use the estimated fair value determined from its interim impairment analysis for this reporting unit because 1) the composition of the assets and liabilities of this reporting unit had not changed significantly since the most recent fair value determination, 2) the most recent fair value determination resulted in a fair value that exceeded the carrying value of the reporting unit by a substantial margin, and 3) management concluded, based on an analysis of current events that had occurred and circumstances that had changed since the most recent fair value determination, that it is remote that the current fair value of the reporting unit would not exceed their carrying amounts.  

As a result of completing Step 1, all of our reporting units, except one, had a fair value exceeding their carrying value, and as such Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for these reporting units. For the reporting unit that failed Step 1, we completed Step 2 and determined that an impairment charge was not required due to the fair value of the implied goodwill exceeding the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. For illustrative purposes, had the fair value of this reporting unit at June 28, 2009 been lower by 10%, the Company still would not have recorded any impairment charge. If the fair value of our other reporting units had been lower by 10%, two reporting units would have failed Step 1 requiring a Step 2 analysis. These reporting units, one in the Diagnostics reportable segment and one in the Skeletal Health reportable segment, had fair values at June 28, 2009 that exceeded their carrying values by 9% and 2%, respectively, and goodwill of $236.0 million and $8.2 million, respectively. We did not record goodwill impairment charges in fiscal 2010 for either of these reporting units.  

The estimate of fair value requires significant judgment. Any loss resulting from an impairment test would be reflected in operating income (loss) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The annual impairment testing process is subjective and requires judgment at many points throughout the analysis. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets not previously recorded.  

Revenue Recognition  

We generate revenue from the sale of products, primarily medical imaging systems and diagnostic and surgical disposable products, and related services, which are primarily support and maintenance services on our medical imaging systems.  

In September 2009, the FASB ratified ASC Update (ASU) No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements (ASU 2009-13). ASU 2009-13 amends existing revenue recognition accounting standards that are currently within the scope of ASC, Subtopic 605-25, which is the revenue recognition standard for multiple-element arrangements. ASU 2009-13 provides for three significant changes to the existing multiple element revenue recognition guidance as follows:  

   1) Removes the requirement to have objective and reliable evidence of fair value for undelivered elements in an arrangement. This may result in more deliverables being treated as separate units of accounting.  

   2) Modifies the manner in which the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separately identified deliverables. ASU 2009-13 requires an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using its best estimate of selling prices (“ESP”) of deliverables if a vendor does not have vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (“VSOE”) or third-party evidence of selling price (“TPE”), if VSOE is not available. Each separate unit of accounting must have a selling price, which can be based on management’s estimate when there is no other means (VSOE or TPE) to determine the selling price of that deliverable. The arrangement consideration is allocated based on the elements’ relative selling prices.  

   3) Eliminates use of the residual method and requires an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method, which results in the discount in the transaction being evenly allocated to the separate units of accounting.  

75  

Table of Contents 

In September 2009, the FASB ratified ASU No. 2009-14, Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements (ASU 2009-14). ASU 2009-14 amends the existing revenue recognition accounting standards to remove tangible products that contain software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality from the scope of industry specific software revenue recognition guidance.  

As permitted, we elected to early adopt these new accounting standards at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2010 on a prospective basis for transactions originating or materially modified on or after September 27, 2009. These accounting standards generally do not change the units of accounting for our revenue transactions, and most products and services qualify as separate units of accounting. The impact of adopting these new accounting standards was not material to our financial statements for the year ended September 25, 2010, and if they were applied in the same manner to fiscal 2009 and 2008 would not have had a material impact to revenue recorded in fiscal 2009 or 2008, or any of the interim periods therein.  

We recognize product revenue upon shipment provided that there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, there are no uncertainties regarding acceptance, the sales price is fixed or determinable, no right of return exists and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Generally, our product arrangements for capital equipment sales, primarily in our Breast Health and Skeletal Health reporting segments, are multiple-element arrangements, including services, such as installation and training, and multiple products. In accordance with ASC 605-25, based on the terms and conditions of the product arrangements, we believe that these services and undelivered products can be accounted for separately from the delivered product element as our delivered products have value to our customers on a stand-alone basis. Accordingly, services not yet performed at the time of product shipment are deferred and recognized as revenue as such services are performed. The relative selling price of any undelivered products is also deferred at the time of shipment and recognized as revenue when these products are delivered. There is no customer right of return in our sales agreements.  

Service revenues primarily consist of amounts recorded under service and maintenance contracts and repairs not covered under warranty, installation and training, and shipping and handling costs billed to customers. Service and maintenance contract revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the contract. Other service revenues are recognized as the services are performed.  

We typically determine the selling price of our products and services based on VSOE and determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold on a stand-alone basis. In determining VSOE, our policy requires a substantial majority of selling prices for a product or service to be within a reasonably narrow range. We also consider the class of customer, method of distribution, and the geographies into which our products and services are sold when determining VSOE. We typically have had VSOE for our products and services.  

If VSOE cannot be established, which may occur in instances when a product or service has not been sold separately, stand-alone sales are too infrequent, or product pricing is not within a narrow range, we attempt to establish the selling price based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately.  

When we cannot determine VSOE or TPE, we use ESP in the allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would typically transact a stand-alone sale of the product or service. ESP is determined by considering a number of factors including our pricing policies, internal costs and gross margin objectives, method of distribution, information gathered from experience in customer negotiations, market research and information, recent technological trends, competitive landscape and geographies.  

Some of our products have both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2009-14, we had determined that except for our CAD products and Dimensions 2D/3D full field digital mammography products (“Dimensions”), the software element in our other products was incidental in accordance with the software revenue recognition rules and were  

76  

Table of Contents 

 not within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules, ASC 985-605, Software—Revenue Recognition. We had determined that given the significance of the software component’s functionality to our CAD systems and Dimensions products, which are in the Breast Health segment, these products were within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules.  

ASC 985-605 generally requires revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each element based on their relative VSOE of fair value. If VSOE does not exist for a delivered element, the residual method is applied in which the arrangement consideration is allocated to the undelivered elements based on VSOE with the remaining consideration recognized as revenue for the delivered elements. For multiple-element software arrangements where VSOE of fair value of Post-Contract Customer Support (“PCS”) has been established, we recognize revenue using the residual method at the time all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.  

Upon the release of the Dimensions product in fiscal 2009, we completed an evaluation of the software component in accordance with the software revenue recognition rules. As a result, we had determined that the Dimensions product contained software that was more than incidental to the product as a whole and should be accounted for under the software revenue recognition rules.  

In connection with the adoption of ASU 2009-14, we re-evaluated the appropriate revenue recognition treatment of our products and determined that the Dimensions products, which have both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the products’ essential functionality (i.e., it is a tangible product), are scoped out of ASC 985-605, however, our CAD products will continue to be subject to ASC 985-605. Dimensions transactions entered into prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2010 will continue to be accounted for under ASC 985-605.  

Under customer usage agreements, we install certain equipment (for example, a ThinPrep Processor or a ThinPrep Imaging System) at customer sites and customers commit to purchasing minimum quantities of disposable products at a stated price (generally including a usage fee for the equipment) over a defined contract term, which is typically between three and five years. Revenue is recognized over the term of the customer usage agreement as disposable products are delivered. We also rent certain equipment to customers and revenue from rental agreements is recorded over the term of the rental agreements.  

Product Warranties  

Products sold are generally covered by a warranty for a period of one year. We accrue a warranty reserve at the time of revenue recognition for estimated costs to provide warranty services. Our estimate of costs to service our warranty obligations is based on historical experience and expectation of future conditions. To the extent we experience increased or decreased warranty claim activity or increased or decreased costs associated with servicing those claims, our warranty accrual will increase or decrease, respectively, resulting in decreased or increased gross profit. Our warranty accrual was approximately $2.8 million, $5.6 million and $9.1 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Stock-Based Compensation  

We recognize stock-based compensation expense associated with the fair value of stock options and restricted stock units that we issue to our employees. Determining the amount of stock-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates to be used in calculating the grant-date fair value of stock options. We use a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of our stock options. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of stock options including the advice of an outside valuation advisor and the advisor’s model. The model requires us to make estimates of the following assumptions:  

Expected volatility—We are responsible for estimating volatility and have considered a number of factors, including third-party estimates, when estimating volatility. We currently use a combination of historical and implied volatility, which is weighted based on a number of factors.  

77  

Table of Contents 

Expected term—We use historical employee exercise and option expiration data to estimate the expected term assumption. We believe that this historical data is currently the best estimate of the expected term of a new option, and that generally, all of our employees exhibit similar exercise behavior.  

Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities for a period that is commensurate with the expected term assumption is used as the risk-free interest rate.  

The amount of stock-based compensation expense recognized during a period is based on the value of the portion of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest. ASC 718, Stock Compensation, requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Based on an analysis of historical forfeitures, we have determined a specific forfeiture rate for certain employee groups and have applied forfeiture rates ranging from 0% to 5% as of September 25, 2010 depending on the specific employee group. This analysis is re-evaluated periodically and the forfeiture rate is adjusted as necessary. Ultimately, the actual expense recognized over the vesting period will only be for those awards that vest.  

We recognized $34.2 million, $32.9 million and $25.7 million of stock-based compensation expense for employee equity awards in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of September 25, 2010, there was $32.7 million and $32.5 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options and restricted stock units, respectively, that we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of 3.3 years and 2.0 years, respectively.  

Income Taxes  

We use the asset and liability method for accounting for income taxes. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between financial reporting and taxes bases of our assets and liabilities. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse.  

We have recognized net deferred tax liabilities of $882.8 million at September 25, 2010 and $993.0 million at September 26, 2009. The liabilities primarily relate to deferred taxes associated with our acquisitions and the debt discount and original issuance discount on our Convertible Notes. The tax assets relate primarily net operating loss carryforwards, accruals and reserves, stock-based compensation, research credits and the payment we received on the sale of the Gestiva asset. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.  

On September 30, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (codified primarily in ASC 740, Income Taxes), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement criteria for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition and defines the criteria that must be met for the benefits of a tax position to be recognized. As a result of our adoption of FIN 48, we recorded the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle of $0.5 million as a decrease to opening retained earnings.  

78  

Table of Contents 

We had gross unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, of approximately $33.5 million as of September 25, 2010 and $29.2 million as of September 26, 2009. At September 25, 2010, $33.5 million represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would result in a reduction of the Company’s effective tax rate. In the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that we will reduce our unrecognized tax benefits by $4.7 million due to expiration of statute of limitations and settlements with taxing authorities, of which $3.5 million will reduce the Company’s effective tax rate.  

In the ordinary course of global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes for all years subject to audit. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different than that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In the event our assumptions are incorrect, the differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

In December 2007, the FASB issued ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations (formerly SFAS No. 141 (Revised 2007), Business Combinations). This Statement retains the fundamental requirements in SFAS 141 that the acquisition method of accounting (which SFAS 141 called the purchase method) be used for all business combinations and for an acquirer to be identified for each business combination. ASC 805 requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date, measured at their fair values as of that date, with limited exceptions. ASC 805 replaces SFAS 141’s cost-allocation process, which required the cost of an acquisition to be allocated to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. ASC 805 retains the guidance in SFAS 141 for identifying and recognizing intangible assets separately from goodwill. ASC 805 will now require acquisition costs to be expensed as incurred, and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally to affect income tax expense. ASC 805 applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. We adopted ASC 805 effective September 27, 2009. The impact of the adoption of ASC 805 is reflected in our fiscal 2010 consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—An amendment of ARB No. 51 (codified within ASC Topic 810, Consolidation). SFAS 160 amends Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51 to establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. The amount of net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest will be included in consolidated net income on the face of the income statement. This accounting standard clarifies that changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation are equity transactions if the parent retains its controlling financial interest. In addition, this Statement requires that a parent recognize a gain or loss in net income when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. This accounting guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which is our 2010 fiscal year. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (SFAS 167) (codified in ASU 2009-17). SFAS 167 modifies how a company determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. SFAS 167 clarifies that the determination of whether a company is required to consolidate an entity is based on, among other things, an entity’s purpose and design and a company’s ability to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly  

79  

Table of Contents 

 impact the entity’s economic performance. SFAS 167 requires an ongoing reassessment of whether a company is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. SFAS 167 also requires additional disclosures about a company’s involvement in variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. SFAS 167 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009, which is our 2011 fiscal year. We have not completed our assessment of the impact SFAS 167, if any, will have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.