ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    

 Our primary source of market risk is the difference between prices received from the sale of refined products and the prices paid for crude oil and other feedstocks. We have a risk management committee responsible for, among other things, reviewing a quarterly assessment of risks to the corporation and presenting a quarterly risk report to executive management for consideration.  

 Commodity Price Risks  

 Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin above fixed and variable expenses (including the costs of crude oil and other feedstocks) and the margin above those expenses at which we are able to sell refined products. The prices of crude oil and refined products have fluctuated substantially in recent years. These prices depend on many factors, including the demand for crude oil, gasoline and other refined products, which in turn depend on, among other factors, changes in the economy, the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products, geo-political conditions, the availability of imports of crude oil and refined products, the marketing of alternative and competing fuels and the impact of government regulations. The prices we receive for refined products are also affected by local factors such as local market conditions and the level of operations of other suppliers in our markets.  

 The prices at which we sell our refined products are influenced by the commodity price of crude oil. Generally, an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil results in a corresponding increase or decrease in the price of gasoline and other refined products. However, the prices for crude oil and prices for our refined products can fluctuate in different directions based on global market conditions. In addition, the timing of the relative movement of the prices, as well as the overall change in refined product prices, can reduce profit margins and could have a significant impact on our earnings and cash flows. In addition, the majority of our crude oil supply contracts are short-term in nature with market-responsive pricing provisions. Our financial results can be affected significantly by price level changes during the period between purchasing refinery feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from such feedstocks. We also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. Our financial results can be affected significantly by price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling such refined products. Assuming all other factors remained constant, a $1.00 per barrel change in average gross refining margins, based on our 2007 average throughput of 595 Mbpd, would change annualized pretax operating income by approximately $217 million.  

 We maintain inventories of crude oil, intermediate products and refined products, the values of which are subject to fluctuations in market prices. Our inventories of refinery feedstocks and refined products totaled 29 million barrels and 26 million barrels at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The average cost of our refinery feedstocks and refined products at December 31, 2007 was approximately $43 per barrel on a LIFO basis, compared to market prices of approximately $93 per barrel. If market prices decline to a level below the average cost of these inventories, we would be required to write down the carrying value of our inventory.  

 Tesoro periodically enters into non-trading derivative arrangements primarily to manage exposure to commodity price risks associated with the purchase of feedstocks and blendstocks and the purchase and sale of manufactured and purchased refined products. To manage these risks, we typically enter into exchange-traded futures and over-the-counter swaps, generally with durations of one year or less. We mark to market our non-hedging derivative instruments and recognize the changes in their fair values in earnings. We include the carrying amounts of our derivatives in other current assets or accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. We did not designate or account for any derivative instruments as hedges during 2007 or 2006. Accordingly, no change in the value of the related underlying physical asset is recorded.  

 55   
 During 2007, we settled derivative positions of approximately 466 million barrels of crude oil and refined products, which resulted in losses of $10 million. At December 31, 2007, we had open derivative positions of approximately 21 million barrels, which will expire at various times during 2008. We recorded the fair value of our open positions, which resulted in an unrealized loss position of $39 million at December 31, 2007, for an unrealized mark-to-market net loss during 2007 of $51 million. During 2006, we settled derivative positions of approximately 138 million barrels of crude oil and refined products, which resulted in gains of $33 million. At December 31, 2006, we had open derivative positions of approximately 10 million barrels, which expired at various times during 2007. We recorded the fair value of our open positions, which resulted in an unrealized gain position of $12 million at December 31, 2006, for an unrealized mark-to-market net gain during 2006 of $10 million.  

 We prepared a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk associated with our derivative instruments. This analysis may differ from actual results. The fair value of each derivative instrument was based on quoted market prices. Based on our open net positions of 21 million barrels as of December 31, 2007, a $1.00 per-barrel change in quoted market prices of our derivative instruments, assuming all other factors remain constant, would change the fair value of our derivative instruments and pretax operating income by $21 million. As of December 31, 2006, a $1.00 per-barrel change in quoted market prices for our derivative instruments, assuming all other factors remain constant, would have changed the fair value of our derivative instruments and pretax operating income by $10 million.  

 56   
  ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA