PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

“Newell Rubbermaid” or the “Company” refers to Newell Rubbermaid Inc. alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires.  

WEBSITE ACCESS TO SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION REPORTS  

The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellrubbermaid.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

GENERAL  

Newell Rubbermaid is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that touch the lives of people where they work, live and play. The Company’s strong portfolio of brands includes Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Dymo®, Expo®, Waterman®, Parker®, Rolodex®, Irwin® , Lenox®, BernzOmatic®, Rubbermaid®, Levolor®, Graco®, Calphalon® and Goody®. The Company’s multi-product offering consists of well known name-brand consumer and commercial products in four business segments: Cleaning, Organization & Décor; Office Products; Tools & Hardware; and Home & Family.  

The Company’s vision is to become a global company of consumer-meaningful brands (“Brands That Matter™”) and great people, known for best-in-class results. The Company’s four transformational strategic initiatives are as follows: Create Consumer-Meaningful Brands, Leverage One Newell Rubbermaid, Achieve Best Total Cost and Nurture 360º Innovation.  

Create Consumer-Meaningful Brands is the initiative to move from a historical focus on customer push marketing and excelling in manufacturing and distributing products, to a new focus on consumer pull marketing and creating competitive advantage through understanding the Company’s consumers, innovating to deliver great performance and value, investing in advertising and promotion to create demand and leveraging its brands in adjacent categories around the world. Leverage One Newell Rubbermaid is the initiative to lower costs and drive speed to market by leveraging common business activities and best practices of its business units. This will be supported by building a common culture of shared values, with a focus on collaboration and teamwork. Achieve Best Total Cost is the initiative to achieve an optimal balance between manufacturing and sourcing and between high-cost and low-cost manufacturing and to leverage the Company’s size and scale to drive productivity and achieve a best cost position. Nurture 360º Innovation represents the broadened definition of innovation to include consumer driven product invention and the successful commercialization of invention.  

The Company’s results depend on the ability of its individual business units to succeed in their respective categories, each of which has some unique consumers, customers and competitors. The Company’s strategic initiatives are designed to enable these business units to generate differentiated products, operate within a best-in-class cost structure and employ superior branding in order to realize premium margins on their products. Premium margins, in turn, fund incremental demand creation by the business units, driving incremental sales and profits for the Company.  

Refer to the forward-looking statements section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the Company’s forward-looking statements included in this report.  

BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

The Company’s four business segments reflect the Company’s focus on building large consumer and commercial brands, promoting organizational integration, achieving operating efficiencies in sourcing and distribution, and leveraging its understanding of similar consumer segments and distribution channels.  

2   
The Company’s business segments are as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company moved to one, common global organizational structure that established the Global Business Unit (“GBU”) as the core organizing concept of the business. The move to a GBU structure allows the Company to better leverage its brands, technology, supply chain and other resources on a global basis. The establishment of a GBU structure did not impact the Company’s operating business segments.  

During 2006 and early 2007, the Company divested its European Cookware, Little Tikes and Home Décor Europe businesses. The results of these businesses are included in discontinued operations. Refer to Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

CLEANING, ORGANIZATION & DÉCOR  

The Company’s Cleaning, Organization & Décor segment is comprised of the following GBUs: Home Products, Foodservice Products, Commercial Products and Décor. These businesses design, manufacture or source, package and distribute semi-durable products primarily for use in the home and commercial settings. The products include indoor and outdoor organization, home storage, food storage, cleaning, refuse, material handling, drapery hardware, custom and stock horizontal and vertical blinds, as well as pleated, cellular and roller shades.  

Home Products, Foodservice Products and Commercial Products primarily sell their products under the trademarks Rubbermaid®, Brute®, Roughneck® and TakeAlongs®. Décor sells its products primarily under the trademarks Levolor® and Kirsch®.  

Home Products and Foodservice Products market their products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home centers, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores and hardware distributors. Commercial Products markets its products directly and through distributors to commercial channels and home centers. Décor markets its products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home centers, department/specialty stores, hardware distributors, industrial/construction outlets, custom shops, select contract customers and other professional customers.  

OFFICE PRODUCTS  

The Company’s Office Products segment is comprised of the following GBUs: Markers, Highlighters & Art Products, Everyday Writing & Coloring, Technology, Fine Writing & Luxury Accessories and Office Organization. The GBUs primarily design, manufacture or source, package and distribute fine/luxury, technical and everyday writing instruments, technology-based products and organization products, including permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase markers, overhead projector pens, highlighters, wood-cased pencils, ballpoint pens and inks, correction fluids, office products, art supplies, on-demand labeling products, card scanning solutions and on-line postage. Office Products also distributes other writing instruments, including roller ball pens and mechanical pencils, for the retail marketplace.  

Office Products primarily sells its products under the trademarks Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Parker®, Waterman®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol®, Reynolds®, Rotring®, Uni-Ball® (used under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America), Expo®, Sharpie® Accent®, Vis-à-Vis®, Expresso ®, Liquid Paper®, Mongol®, Foohy®, Prismacolor®, Eldon ®, Dymo®, Mimio®, CardScan® and Endicia™.  

- 3 -   
Office Products markets its products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers, hardware distributors and other retailers.  

TOOLS & HARDWARE  

The Company’s Tools & Hardware segment is comprised of the following GBUs: Industrial Products & Services, Construction Accessories, Construction Tools and Cabinet, Window & Door. The GBUs within the Tools & Hardware segment design, manufacture or source, package and distribute hand tools and power tool accessories, propane torches, soldering tools and accessories, manual paint applicator products, cabinet hardware and window and door hardware.  

Tools & Hardware sells its products under the trademarks Irwin®, Vise-Grip®, Marathon®, Twill®, Speedbor ®, Jack ®, Quick-Grip ®, Unibit ®, Strait-Line ®, BernzOmatic ®, Shur-Line ®, Rubbermaid ®, Lenox ®, Sterling ®, Amerock ®, Allison ®, Ashland ® and Bulldog ®.  

Tools & Hardware markets its products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home centers, department/specialty stores, hardware distributors, industrial/construction outlets, custom shops, select contract customers and other professional customers.  

HOME & FAMILY  

The Company’s Home & Family segment is comprised of the following GBUs: Culinary Lifestyle, Baby & Parenting Essentials and Beauty & Style. Culinary Lifestyle primarily designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes aluminum and stainless steel cookware, bakeware, cutlery and kitchen gadgets and utensils. Baby & Parenting Essentials designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes infant and juvenile products such as swings, high chairs, car seats, strollers and play yards. Beauty & Style designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes hair care accessories and grooming products.  

Culinary Lifestyle primarily sells its products under the trademarks Calphalon®, Kitchen Essentials®, Cooking with Calphalon™, Calphalon®One™ and Katana™. Baby & Parenting Essentials primarily sells its products under the Graco® trademark. Beauty & Style markets its products primarily under the trademarks Goody®, Ace®, i|m™, Stayput™, Ouchless®, StylingSolutions™, Styling Therapy™ and ColourCollection™.  

Culinary Lifestyle markets and sells its products directly to department and specialty stores and through its branded retail outlets. Baby & Parenting Essentials and Beauty & Style market their products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, warehouse clubs and grocery/drug stores.  

NET SALES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT  

The following table sets forth the amounts and percentages of the Company’s net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions, except percentages) (including sales of acquired businesses from the time of acquisition and excluding sales of businesses that have been divested), for the Company’s four business segments.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries amounted to approximately 13%, 12%, and 13% of consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, substantially across all segments. Sales  

- 4 -   
to no other customer exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales. For more detailed segment information, including operating income and identifiable assets by segment, refer to Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES  

Create Consumer-Meaningful Brands  

The Company is continuing to move from its historical focus on customer push marketing and excelling in manufacturing and distributing products, to a new focus on consumer pull marketing and creating competitive advantage through better understanding its consumers, innovating to deliver great performance and value, investing in advertising and promotion to create demand and leveraging its brands in adjacent categories around the world. Consumer-meaningful brands create more value than products alone, and big brands provide the Company with the economies of scale that can be leveraged in today’s marketplace.  

In 2007, the Company made incremental investments in strategic brand building for several brands including Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Rubbermaid®, Graco®, Calphalon® and Goody®. In just two years, the Company has increased its investment in strategic brand building almost 60% to 6.2% of sales. The Company is committed to increasing selective television, print, direct mail and online advertising, and using sampling and product demonstrations where appropriate, to increase brand awareness and trials among end-users of its brands. During 2007, the Company sponsored the #26 Irwin® car in the NASCAR NEXTEL Cup Series, the Sharpie® 500 NASCAR race in Bristol, Tennessee and the Lenox® Industrial Tools 300 NASCAR race in Loudon, New Hampshire. In 2008, the Company anticipates focusing its advertising and sponsorships in similar areas.  

The Company continues to employ resources to create best-in-class branding capabilities across the Company. As part of the Company’s Marketing Build and Transform initiative, it has created a detailed blueprint and roadmap for achieving brand building excellence over time, complete with annual targets and measures. The Company has added top executive talent from some of the world’s leading consumer products companies to its management ranks as well as developed and launched a comprehensive series of Marketing Excellence training programs, covering both basic and advanced curriculums to expand and develop consumer marketing capabilities and further enhance consumer understanding. The Company’s brand building initiatives and the increased investments in research, training, and consumer-noticeable spending activities have contributed to the Company realizing market share gains in certain key brands, notably in the Calphalon, Goody, Dymo and Rubbermaid Commercial Products businesses, and global growth in the Irwin and Lenox branded tools businesses. 

Leverage One Newell Rubbermaid  

The Company is committed to leveraging the common business activities and best practices of its business units, and to build one common culture of shared values, with a focus on collaboration and teamwork. Through this initiative, the Company strives to benefit from the reduction of costs achieved through horizontal integration and economies of scale. For example, the Company continues to explore ways to leverage its common functional capabilities such as Human Resources, Information Technology, Customer Service, Supply Chain Management and Finance to improve efficiency and reduce costs. The Company is also taking significant steps toward achieving low cost logistical excellence, including the centralization and consolidation of the Company’s distribution and transportation activities. The centralization of these functions will increase buying power across the Company.  

Additionally, certain administrative functions are centralized at the corporate level including cash management, accounting systems, capital expenditure approvals, restructuring approvals, order processing, billing, credit, accounts receivable collections, data processing operations and legal functions. Centralization concentrates technical expertise in one location, making it easier to communicate, observe overall business trends and manage the Company’s businesses.  

The Company previously accelerated the process of creating shared services for the European businesses and is expanding the scope of shared services in the U.S and Latin America. The transition of services to the Shared Service Center in Europe is approximately 90% complete. In addition, in its move to a consistent GBU structure, the Company has recently created and expanded leadership positions to identify and drive synergies across business units.  

On October 1, 2007, the Company’s Office Products segment successfully went live with the SAP implementation for its North American operations. This SAP go-live marks the completion of the first major milestone in a multi-year rollout aimed at migrating multiple legacy systems and users to a common SAP global information platform.  

- 5 -   
This will enable the Company to integrate and manage its worldwide business and reporting processes more efficiently.  

Achieve Best Total Cost  

The Company’s objective is to reduce the cost of manufacturing, sourcing and supplying product on an ongoing basis, and to leverage the Company’s size and scale, in order to achieve a best total cost position in relevant product categories. Achieving best cost positions in its categories allows the Company to increase investment in strategic brand building initiatives. To improve productivity, the Company focuses on reducing procurement, material handling and distribution and transportation costs; driving manufacturing efficiencies; and removing excess overhead costs to reduce the overall cost of manufacturing and delivering products. The Company has also shifted a portion of its research and development efforts to focus on ways to design future products that can be manufactured more cost effectively.  

A key component of this strategy is the Company’s sourcing transformation — restructuring the manufacturing and sourcing footprint to reduce total delivered cost, including increasing capacity utilization and the percentage of manufacturing located in lower-cost countries as well as achieving a balance of company-owned manufacturing and third party sourcing partners. Project Acceleration remains on track to deliver its commitments in cost, savings and timing over the life of the project, and the Company has realized savings in its operating results. Project Acceleration is projected to result in cumulative restructuring costs of approximately $375 million to $400 million ($315 million to $340 million after tax). Approximately 67% of the costs are expected to be cash. Annualized savings from Project Acceleration are expected to exceed $150 million upon conclusion of the project in 2009, with $60 million in annual savings recognized in 2007 and additional benefits of $60 million and $30 million projected for 2008 and 2009, respectively. To date, the Company has announced approximately two-thirds of its anticipated closings and consolidations and has announced the expansion of the program to include certain scale leveraging initiatives with respect to distribution, transportation and shared services.  

The Company is also committed to reducing non-strategic selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) costs throughout the organization. The Company is vigilant in creating a leaner organization that is more flexible in its response time, both internally and externally. The Company’s efforts to Leverage One Newell Rubbermaid through horizontal integration will help the Company to achieve this goal.  

Nurture 360º Innovation  

The Company has broadened its definition of innovation beyond product invention. The Company defines innovation as the successful commercialization of invention. It is a rigorous, consumer-centric process that permeates the entire development cycle. It begins with a deep understanding of how consumers interact with the Company’s brands and categories, and all the factors that drive their purchase decisions and in-use experience. That understanding must then be translated into innovative products that deliver unique features and benefits, at a best-cost position, providing the consumer with great value. Lastly, innovating how and where to create awareness and trial use, and measuring the effectiveness of advertising and promotion spending, completes the process. The Company has pockets of excellence using this expanded definition of innovation and continues to build on this competency in its effort to create consumer-meaningful brands. Since the beginning of 2007, the Company launched a number of innovative new products including the Sharpie® Chisel Tip, Levolor® Roman Shades, Lenox® Diamond™ saw blades, Graco® iMonitor™, and the Rubbermaid® Premier line of premium food storage containers. Additionally, the Company’s Baby and Parenting Essentials business launched the Graco Sweetpeace-Newborn Soothing Center in early 2008. This product reinvents the swing category by offering babies a multi-sensory experience that mimics the actual movements mothers use to soothe their infants and comes programmed with comforting prenatal sounds, such as a heartbeat, that research has proven to be especially comforting to babies. The Company is investing in a targeted multimedia print and web marketing campaign to support the launch of this innovative new product.  

- 6 -   
GROWTH STRATEGY  

The Company’s growth strategy includes internal growth and acquisitions. The Company is also increasingly focused on globalization and the significant opportunities to further expand internationally.  

Internal Growth  

The Company focuses on internal growth principally by understanding consumers, demand creation through marketing, commercializing innovative new products, entering new domestic and international markets, adding new customers, cross-selling existing product lines to current customers and supporting its U.S.-based customers’ international expansion. Internal growth is generally defined by the Company as growth from continuing businesses owned more than one year.  

Acquisition Strategy  

The Company supplements internal growth by selectively acquiring businesses with prominent end-user focused brands and improving the profitability of such businesses through the implementation of the Company’s strategic initiatives. Strategic criteria for an acquisition include: the existence of consumer-meaningful brands that reflect differentiation and innovation, global categories, favorable customer and channel dynamics, strong margin and growth potential, focus on non-cyclical, semi-durable products, and synergies with our core categories and competencies.  

Globalization  

The Company is expanding from a U.S.-centric business model to one that includes international growth as an increasing focus. The growth of consumer goods economies and retail structures in several regions outside the U.S., particularly Central and Eastern Europe, Asia, Mexico and South America, makes them attractive to the Company by providing selective opportunities to acquire businesses, develop partnerships with new foreign customers and extend relationships with the Company’s domestic customers whose businesses are growing internationally. As a result, the Company pursues selective international opportunities to further its internal growth and acquisition objectives. The Company’s sales outside the U.S. approximated 28%, 26% and 24% of total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

The Company has made significant strides in structuring itself for successful globalization. In 2007, the Company realigned its businesses under a GBU structure. This realignment positions the businesses to leverage research and development, branding, marketing and innovation on a global basis. The Company has also implemented the process of creating shared services for the European businesses, which is approximately 90% complete. Finally, the Company is in the early stages of migrating multiple legacy systems and users to a common SAP global information platform, which will enable the Company to integrate and manage its worldwide business and reporting processes more efficiently.  

DIVESTITURE AND PRODUCT LINE RATIONALIZATION  

The Company consistently reviews its businesses and product offerings, assesses their strategic fit and seeks opportunities to divest non-strategic businesses. The criteria used by the Company in assessing the strategic fit include: the existence of consumer-meaningful brands that respond to differentiation and innovation, global categories, favorable customer and channel dynamics, strong margin and growth potential, focus on non-cyclical, semi-durable products, synergies with our core categories and competencies, and the business’ actual and potential impact on the operating performance of the Company. While the Company believes that the business units remaining in our portfolio constitute core businesses, the Company will continue to review its businesses and product offerings and assess their strategic fit.  

During 2006 and early 2007, the Company divested its European Cookware, Little Tikes and Home Décor Europe businesses. During 2005, the Company divested its Curver business. See Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of discontinued operations.  

- 7 -   
In the normal course of business, the Company rationalizes low margin products. The Company’s decision to exit these low margin product lines is consistent with its strategy to focus on high margin, high potential opportunities that support the Company’s financial objectives.  

OTHER INFORMATION  

Multi-Product Offering  

The Company’s broad product coverage in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can also assist volume purchasers sell a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income and encourage impulse buying by retail customers.  

Customer Marketing and Service  

The Company strives to develop long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships with its customers and become their supplier and brand of choice. To achieve this goal, the Company has a value-added marketing program that offers a family of leading brand name staple products, tailored sales programs, innovative merchandising support, in-store services and responsive top management.  

The Company strives to enhance its relationships with customers through exceptional customer service. The Company’s ability to provide superior customer service is a result of its information technology, marketing and merchandising programs that are designed to enhance the sales and profitability of its customers and provide consistent on-time delivery of its products.  

A critical element of the Company’s customer service is consistent on-time delivery of products to its customers. Retailers are pursuing a number of strategies to deliver the highest-quality, best-cost products to their customers. Retailers now frequently purchase on a “just-in-time” basis in order to reduce inventory carrying costs and increase returns on investment. As retailers shorten their lead times for orders, manufacturers need to more closely anticipate consumer-buying patterns. The Company supports its retail customers’ “just-in-time” inventory strategies through more responsive sourcing, manufacturing and distribution capabilities and electronic communications.  

Foreign Operations  

Information regarding the Company’s 2007, 2006 and 2005 foreign operations and financial information by geographic area is included in Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s foreign operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Raw Materials  

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, glass, corrugate and metals, including steel, stainless steel, zinc, aluminum and gold. The Company has experienced inflation in raw material prices and expects such inflation pressures to continue in 2008. The Company continues to attempt to reduce the volume of its resin purchases through product line rationalization and strategic divestitures. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.  

Backlog  

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.  

Seasonal Variations  

The Company’s sales and operating income in the first quarter are generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced demand and volume for the products in the Company’s Office Products and Cleaning, Organization & Décor segments in the quarter.  

- 8 -   
Patents and Trademarks  

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks are “Rubbermaid®,” “Sharpie®,” “Paper Mate®,” “Lenox®,” “Irwin®,” “Graco®,” “Calphalon®”, “Levolor®” and “Dymo®.”  

Customers / Competition  

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to a significant consolidation of the consumer products retail industry and the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment limits the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.  

Current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for the retailer to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with products of the Company. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in pricing pressures and the need for strong end-user brands, the ongoing introduction of innovative new products and continuing improvements in category management and customer service. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well established.  

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining consumer-meaningful brands and differentiated products, delivering superior customer service (including innovative “good-better-best” marketing and merchandising programs), consistent on-time delivery, outsourcing certain production to low cost suppliers and lower cost countries where appropriate and experienced management.  

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailer, including discount, drug, grocery and variety chains, warehouse clubs, department, hardware and specialty stores, home centers, office superstores, contract stationers and military exchanges. The Company’s largest customer, Wal*Mart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 13% of net sales in 2007, across substantially all business units. The Company’s top ten customers included (in alphabetical order): Boise Office, Lowe’s, Office Depot, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us, United Stationers, W. W. Grainger and Wal*Mart.  

Environmental Matters  

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report and in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Research and Development  

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three fiscal years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately 22,000 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 3,500 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in certain countries which have collective arrangements decreed by statute.  

- 9 -   
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS