ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The following discussion and analysis provides information which management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto.  

Executive Overview  

Newell Rubbermaid is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that touch the lives of people where they work, live and play. The Company’s multi-product offering consists of well known name-brand consumer and commercial products in four business segments as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The Company’s vision is to become a global company of Brands That MatterTM and great people, known for best-in-class results. The Company remains committed to investing in strategic brands and new product development, strengthening its portfolio of businesses, reducing its supply chain costs and streamlining non-strategic selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A).  

The key tenets of the Company’s strategy include building large, consumer-meaningful brands (“Brands That MatterTM”), leveraging one Newell Rubbermaid, achieving a best total cost position and commercializing innovation across the enterprise. The Company’s results depend on the ability of its individual business units to succeed in their respective categories, each of which has some unique consumers, customers and competitors. The Company’s  

- 19 -   
strategic initiatives are designed to help enable these business units generate differentiated products, operate within a best-in-class cost structure and employ superior branding in order to realize premium margins on their products. The business units use the premium margins to fund incremental demand creation initiatives, driving incremental sales and profits for the Company.  

The following section details the Company’s performance in each of its transformational initiatives:  

Create Consumer-Meaningful Brands  

The Company is continuing to move from its historical focus on push marketing and excellence in manufacturing and distributing products, to a new focus on consumer pull marketing and creating competitive advantage through better understanding its consumers, innovating to deliver great performance, investing in advertising and promotion to create demand and leveraging its brands in adjacent categories around the world. This effort is creating and expanding core competencies and processes centered on consumer understanding, innovation and demand creation, to drive sustainable top line growth. The Company’s progress in implementing this brand building and marketing initiative is exhibited by the following:  

 •   The Company’s Tools & Hardware segment achieved low single digit sales growth in 2007, due largely to continued strength in its international Irwin and Lenox businesses. One of the primary drivers of the growth in the Lenox business is its marketing efforts and the expansion of its team of trained professionals who work with end users to educate them on the benefits, use, installation, and servicing of its band saws.  

 •   In the Company’s Beauty and Style business, Goody has introduced a major marketing campaign to support the introduction of its innovative Styling Therapy line of brushes that are infused with special substances that help control dandruff, add shine, and protect hair color. Sales of Styling Therapy products have doubled since the launch of the consumer driven advertising and promotion campaign.  

 •   In the Company’s Office Products segment, the Dymo labeling technology business’ sales have increased in 2007 due largely to aggressive television marketing campaigns in Europe. Additionally, the Office Products segment is launching the Sharpie Ultra Fine Retractable Marker in early 2008. This distinct product, developed based on consumer understanding and demand, allows for precise permanent marking and writing with an easy one-handed operation.    

Leverage One Newell Rubbermaid  

The Company strives to leverage the common business activities and best practices of its business units, and to build one common culture of shared values, with a focus on collaboration and teamwork. The Company continuously explores ways to leverage common functional capabilities, such as Human Resources, Information Technology, Customer Service, Supply Chain Management and Finance, to improve efficiency and reduce costs. This broad reaching initiative already includes projects such as the corporate consolidation of the distribution and transportation function and consolidating Company-wide purchasing efforts. Additionally, during 2007, the Company streamlined its organizational structure in its move to a consistent GBU structure throughout the Company. As part of the transition to the new GBU structure, the Company recently created and expanded leadership positions to identify and drive synergies across business units.  

The Company also accelerated the process of creating shared services for the European businesses and is expanding the scope of shared services in the U.S and Latin America. The transition of services to the Shared Service Center in Europe is approximately 90% complete.  

On October 1, 2007, the Company’s Office Products segment successfully went live with the SAP implementation for its North American operations. This SAP go-live marks the completion of the first major milestone in a multi-year rollout aimed at migrating multiple legacy systems and users to a common SAP global information platform. This will enable the Company to integrate and manage its worldwide business and reporting processes more efficiently.  

- 20 -   
Achieve Best Total Cost  

The Company’s objective is to reduce the cost of manufacturing, sourcing and supplying product on an ongoing basis, and to leverage the Company’s size and scale, in order to achieve a best total cost position. Achieving best cost positions in its categories allows the Company to increase investment in strategic brand building initiatives.  

Through Project Acceleration and other initiatives, the Company has made significant progress in reducing its supply chain costs and delivering productivity savings. Project Acceleration includes the closure of approximately one-third of the Company’s 64 manufacturing facilities, optimizing the Company’s geographic manufacturing footprint. Since the inception of Project Acceleration, the Company has announced the closure of 16 manufacturing facilities and expects that approximately eight additional facilities will be closed under this program. Project Acceleration is projected to result in cumulative restructuring costs of approximately $375 million to $400 million ($315 million to $340 million after tax). Approximately 67% of the costs are expected to be cash. Annualized savings are now projected to exceed $150 million upon conclusion of the project in 2009. Additionally, the Company has broadened its supply chain efforts to include the realization of efficiencies in purchasing and distribution and transportation in its move toward logistical excellence. For example, the Company has consolidated the warehousing and logistics for all product groups in the United Kingdom at a single site near Birmingham, England and has also opened a new, 400,000 square foot consolidated Newell Rubbermaid distribution center in Victorville, California.  

Nurture 360º Innovation  

The Company has broadened its definition of innovation beyond product invention. The Company defines innovation as the successful commercialization of invention. It is a rigorous, consumer centric process that permeates the entire development cycle. It begins with a deep understanding of how consumers interact with the Company’s brands and categories, and all the factors that drive their purchase decisions and in-use experience. That understanding must then be translated into innovative products that deliver unique features and benefits, at a best-cost position, providing the consumer with great value. Lastly, innovating how and where to create awareness and trial use, and measuring the effectiveness of advertising and promotion spending, completes the process. The Company has pockets of excellence using this expanded definition of innovation, and continues to build on this competency in its effort to create consumer meaningful brands. Since the beginning of 2007, the Company has launched a number of innovative new products including the Sharpie® Chisel Tip, Levolor® Roman Shades, Lenox® Diamond™ saw blades, Graco® iMonitor™, and the Rubbermaid® Premier line of premium food storage containers. Additionally, the Company’s Baby and Parenting Essentials business launched the Graco Sweetpeace-Newborn Soothing Center in early 2008, which was developed based on comprehensive research, with moms and pediatric professionals, to understand what works best to calm babies.  

Consolidated Results of Operations  

The following table sets forth for the periods indicated items from the Consolidated Statements of Income as reported and as a percentage of net sales for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

- 21 -   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Results of Operations — 2007 vs. 2006  

Net sales for 2007 were $6,407.3 million, representing an increase of $206.3 million, or 3.3%, from $6,201.0 million for 2006. Positive currency translation contributed approximately 2.0% of the 3.3% improvement. Excluding the effects of currency translation, sales increased 1.3%. The increase was primarily related to Home & Family sales growth of 6.0% and Cleaning, Organization & Décor sales growth of 4.1%, partially offset by a decrease in Office Products sales.  

Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, for 2007 was 35.2%, or $2,257.2 million, versus 33.4%, or $2,070.0 million, for 2006. Ongoing productivity initiatives, favorable mix, and savings from Project Acceleration, which contributed approximately $45 million to gross margin, drove the 185 basis point improvement year over year, with pricing offsetting raw material inflation.  

SG&A expenses for 2007 were 22.3% of net sales, or $1,430.9 million, versus 21.7% of net sales, or $1,347.0 million, for 2006. Approximately 38% of the increase is attributable to foreign currency, with the remainder due to investments in brand building, product development and other corporate initiatives, including SAP and Shared Services. These investments were partially offset by $15 million in savings from Project Acceleration and other structural overhead reductions.  

The Company recorded restructuring costs of $86.0 million and $66.4 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company expects cumulative pre-tax restructuring costs of $375 to $400 million, approximately 67% of which are expected to be cash costs, over the life of the initiative, which began in 2005 and is expected to conclude in 2009. Annualized savings are projected to exceed $150 million upon completion of the project, with an approximate $60 million of savings realized in 2007, of which an estimated $45 million in savings is included in the improvement in gross margin. The Company projects an additional benefit from Project Acceleration of $60 million in 2008 and $30 million in 2009. The 2007 restructuring costs included $27.7 million of facility and other exit costs, $36.4 million of employee severance and termination benefits and $21.9 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. Since the inception of Project Acceleration, the Company has announced the closure of 16 manufacturing facilities and expects that approximately eight additional facilities will be closed under this program. The 2006 restructuring costs included $14.9 million of facility and other exit costs, $44.7 million of employee severance and termination benefits and $6.8 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. See Footnote 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

Operating income for 2007 was $740.3 million, or 11.6% of net sales, versus $656.6 million, or 10.6% of net sales, in 2006. This increase was driven by sales and gross margin expansion, partially offset by the increased investment in brand building and product development initiatives, expansion of shared services and implementation of SAP.  

Net nonoperating expenses for 2007 were 1.7% of net sales, or $111.4 million, versus 2.3% of net sales, or $141.7 million, for 2006. The decrease in net nonoperating expenses was mainly attributable to a decrease in interest expense, reflecting a reduction in average debt outstanding year over year and slightly lower average borrowing rates. See Footnote 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

The effective tax rate was 23.8% for 2007 versus 8.6% for 2006. The change in the effective tax rate is primarily related to the $41.3 million of income tax benefits recorded in 2007 compared to $102.8 million income tax benefits recorded in 2006. The income tax benefits in 2007 and 2006 resulted from the favorable resolution of certain tax positions, the expiration of the statute of limitations on certain deductions, and the reorganization of certain legal entities in Europe. See Footnote 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

The loss from discontinued operations for 2007 was $12.1 million, compared to $85.7 million for 2006. The loss on the disposal of discontinued operations for 2007 was $11.9 million, net of tax, compared to a gain of $0.7 million, net of tax, for 2006. The 2007 loss related primarily to the disposal of the remaining operations of the Home Décor Europe business. The 2006 gain related primarily to the disposal of the Little Tikes business, partially offset by the loss recognized on the disposal of portions of the Home Décor Europe business. The loss from operations of  

- 22 -   
discontinued operations for 2007 was $0.2 million, net of tax, compared to $86.4 million, net of tax, for 2006. The 2007 loss related only to the results of the remaining operations of the Home Décor Europe business, while the 2006 loss included a $50.9 million impairment charge to write off goodwill of the Home Décor Europe business. See Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

Results of Operations — 2006 vs. 2005  

Net sales for 2006 were $6,201.0 million, representing an increase of $483.8 million, or 8.5%, from $5,717.2 million for 2005. Excluding sales related to the Dymo acquisition, sales were up approximately $268 million, or 4.7%, driven by core sales growth of approximately 2.6%. The impact of positive currency translation and favorable pricing contributed approximately two points of additional improvement.  

Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, for 2006 was 33.4%, or $2,070.0 million, versus 30.8%, or $1,758.1 million, for 2005. The 260 basis point improvement in gross margin was driven by productivity, favorable pricing, and favorable mix, which more than offset the impact of raw material inflation.  

SG&A expenses for 2006 were 21.7% of net sales, or $1,347.0 million, versus 19.5%, or $1,117.7 million, for 2005. Approximately 40% of the increase is related to the impact of acquisitions, 40% represented increased investment in strategic brand building, and the remainder resulted from the impact of foreign currency and stock option accounting and the pension curtailment benefit recognized in 2005 that did not repeat in 2006.  

The Company recorded restructuring costs of $66.4 million and $72.6 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2006 restructuring costs included $14.9 million of facility and other exit costs, $44.7 million of employee severance and termination benefits and $6.8 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. The 2005 restructuring costs included $51.3 million in non-cash facility restructuring costs relating to Project Acceleration and $21.3 million relating to restructuring actions approved prior to the commencement of Project Acceleration. The $21.3 million of pre-Project Acceleration costs included $7.9 million of facility and other exit costs, $11.1 million of employee severance and termination benefits and $2.3 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. See Footnote 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

Operating income for 2006 was $656.6 million, or 10.6% of net sales, versus $567.4 million, or 9.9% of net sales, in 2005. The improvement in operating margins is the result of increased sales and gross margin expansion partially offset by increased investment in strategic brand building.  

Net nonoperating expenses for 2006 were 2.3% of net sales, or $141.7 million, versus 1.8% of net sales, or $104.0 million, for 2005. The increase in net nonoperating expenses is mainly attributable to gains recognized in 2005 on the sale of property, plant and equipment and the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary that did not repeat in 2006, along with an increase in net interest expense, $132.0 million for 2006 compared to $127.1 million for 2005. The increase in net interest expense was primarily due to higher borrowing rates and higher average debt balances. See Footnote 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

The effective tax rate was 8.6% for 2006 versus 12.3% for 2005. The change in the effective tax rate is primarily related to $102.8 million income tax benefits recorded in 2006 compared to income tax benefits of $73.9 million recorded in 2005, as a result of favorable resolution of certain tax positions and the expiration of the statute of limitations on other deductions. See Footnote 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

The loss from discontinued operations for 2006 was $85.7 million, compared to $155.0 million for 2005. The (gain) loss on the disposal of discontinued operations for 2006 was ($0.7) million, net of tax, compared to $96.8 million, net of tax, for 2005. The 2006 gain was primarily related to the disposal of the Little Tikes business, which was partially offset by the loss recognized on disposal of portions of the Home Décor Europe business. The 2005 loss related primarily to the disposal of the Curver and the European Cookware businesses. The loss from operations of discontinued operations for 2006 was $86.4 million, net of tax, compared to $58.2 million, net of tax, for 2005. See Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

- 23 -   
Business Segment Operating Results  

2007 vs. 2006 Business Segment Operating Results  

Net sales by segment were as follows for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Operating income by segment was as follows for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Cleaning, Organization & Décor  

Net sales for 2007 were $2,096.4 million, an increase of $100.7 million, or 5.0%, from $1,995.7 million in 2006, driven by double digit sales growth in Rubbermaid Commercial Products, resulting from new product launches during the year, mid single digit growth in Rubbermaid Home Products due to growth in sales of home organization and insulated products, and low single digit growth in the Rubbermaid Food and Levolor branded businesses.  

Operating income for 2007 was $273.3 million, or 13.0% of sales, an increase of $64.2 million, or 30.7%, from $209.1 million in 2006. The improvement in operating income was the result of sales growth driven by strategic SG&A investments and gross margin expansion, resulting from productivity gains and favorable mix.  

Office Products  

Net sales for 2007 were $2,042.3 million, an increase of $10.7 million, or 0.5% from $2,031.6 million in 2006. Growth in the Office Technology business, driven by increased sales in the Dymo business and the acquisition of Endicia, along with favorable foreign currency, was offset by overall softness in the U.S. resulting from weaker foot traffic in the North American office retailers and inventory corrections taken within that same channel.  

Operating income for 2007 was $317.9 million, or 15.6% of sales, an increase of $30.9 million, or 10.8%, from $287.0 million in 2006. This increase primarily resulted from gross margin expansion, resulting from favorable mix and pricing initiatives, partially offset by increased investment in brand building activities.  

Tools & Hardware  

Net sales for 2007 were $1,288.7 million, an increase of $26.5 million, or 2.1%, from $1,262.2 million in 2006. The successful commercialization of certain products, particularly bandsaws, and favorable foreign currency drove sales growth in Europe and Latin America, which more than offset continued softness in the domestic tool and hardware businesses affected primarily by the U.S. residential construction market. The Company continues to experience solid growth in the Irwin and Lenox branded products which combined yielded mid single digit growth for the year.  

Operating income for 2007 was $181.5 million, or 14.1% of sales, a decrease of $3.5 million, or 1.9%, from $185.0 million in 2006. Top line growth and productivity initiatives were more than offset by investments in strategic brand building.  

- 24 -   
Home & Family  

Net sales for 2007 were $979.9 million, an increase of $68.4 million, or 7.5%, from $911.5 million in 2006. Broad based success in all three business units was fueled by new product launches and better sell-through resulting from demand creation activities.  

Operating income for 2007 was $135.6 million, or 13.8% of sales, an increase of $17.7 million, or 15.0%, from $117.9 million in 2006. The increase was primarily driven by top line sales growth supported by increased SG&A investments.  

2006 vs. 2005 Business Segment Operating Results  

Net sales by segment were as follows for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Operating income by segment was as follows for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Cleaning, Organization & Décor  

Net sales for 2006 were $1,995.7 million, an increase of $74.7 million, or 3.9%, from $1,921.0 million in 2005, driven by mid single-digit growth in Rubbermaid Commercial Products and Rubbermaid Home Products. New product innovation, a strong back to campus season, a successful year in insulated products and strong sales in the size in store and custom blind products drove the sales improvement over 2005. Partially offsetting this increase were low margin product line exits, specifically related to basic drapery hardware.  

Operating income for 2006 was $209.1 million, an increase of $63.3 million, or 43.4%, from $145.8 million in 2005. The increase in operating income was driven by the sales volume increases described above coupled with productivity initiatives and pricing actions put in place to offset raw material inflation.  

Office Products  

Net sales for 2006 were $2,031.6 million, an increase of $318.3 million, or 18.6% from $1,713.3 million in 2005. Excluding sales related to the Dymo acquisition, sales increased approximately 6%, led by strong performance in the Everyday Writing and Marker businesses.  

Operating income for 2006 was $287.0 million, an increase of $21.0 million, or 7.9%, from $266.0 million in 2005. Additional income from the Dymo acquisition and the sales volume increase described above were partially offset by strategic brand building spending, restructuring related inefficiencies and acquisition related start-up costs.  

- 25 -   
Tools & Hardware  

Net sales for 2006 were $1,262.2 million, an increase of $1.9 million, or 0.2%, from $1,260.3 million in 2005, as mid single-digit growth in the Irwin and Lenox branded tools businesses was offset by the decline in the consumer electronic tools business. Sales of other product lines increased approximately 3% in the segment, despite the challenging housing and retail environment.  

Operating income for 2006 was $185.0 million, an increase of $13.9 million, or 8.1%, from $171.1 million in 2005. Productivity initiatives were partially offset by strategic brand building investment and raw material inflation, particularly in aluminum, zinc and brass.  

Home & Family  

Net sales for 2006 were $911.5 million, an increase of $88.9 million, or 10.8%, from $822.6 million in 2005. Broad based success in all three business units was fueled by sales of new products and consumer demand driven by targeted strategic SG&A investment.  

Operating income for 2006 was $117.9 million, an increase of $14.4 million, or 13.9%, from $103.5 million in 2005, driven by an increase in sales and productivity, partially offset by increased SG&A investment.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Cash and cash equivalents increased (decreased) as follows for the year ended December 31, (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sources  

Historically, the Company’s primary sources of liquidity and capital resources have included cash provided by operations, proceeds from divestitures and use of available borrowing facilities.  

Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $655.3 million compared to $643.4 million for the comparable period of 2006. The increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily a result of increased net income, offset by increased investments in working capital, including cash restructuring costs.  

In 2007, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of debt of $420.8 million compared to $177.0 million in 2006. Proceeds in 2007 reflect the issuance of commercial paper to fund the acquisition of PSI Systems, Inc. (“Endicia”), a provider of Endicia Internet postage, and to pay off a $250.0 million, 6.0% fixed rate medium-term note that matured.  

On November 14, 2005, the Company entered into a $750.0 million five-year syndicated revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”). On an annual basis, the Company may request an extension of the Revolver (subject to lender approval) for additional one-year periods. The Company elected to extend the Revolver for additional one-year periods in both October 2006 and October 2007, and, as a result, the Revolver will now expire in November 2012. All but one lender approved the 2006 and 2007 extensions. Accordingly, the Company has a $750.0 million facility through November 2010, and a $725.0 million facility from November 2010 to November 2012. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no borrowings under the Revolver.  

In lieu of borrowings under the Revolver, the Company may issue up to $750.0 million of commercial paper through 2010 and $725.0 million thereafter through 2012. The Revolver provides the committed backup liquidity required to issue commercial paper. Accordingly, commercial paper may only be issued up to the amount available for borrowing under the Revolver. The Revolver also provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of standby letters of credit so long as there is a sufficient amount available for borrowing under the Revolver. At December 31, 2007,  

- 26 -   
there was $197.0 million of commercial paper outstanding, classified as current long-term debt, and no standby letters of credit issued under the Revolver. At December 31, 2006, there was no commercial paper outstanding and there were no standby letters of credit issued under the Revolver.  

The Revolver permits the Company to borrow funds on a variety of interest rate terms and requires, among other things, that the Company maintain certain Interest Coverage and Total Indebtedness to Total Capital Ratio, as defined in the agreement. The Revolver also limits Subsidiary Indebtedness, as defined in the agreement. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company was in compliance with the terms of the agreement governing the Revolver.  

Under a 2001 receivables facility with a financial institution, the Company created a financing entity that is consolidated in the Company’s financial statements. Under this facility, the Company regularly enters into transactions with the financing entity to sell an undivided interest in substantially all of the Company’s U.S. trade receivables to the financing entity. In 2001, the financing entity issued $450.0 million in preferred debt securities to the financial institution. Certain levels of accounts receivable write-offs and other events would permit the financial institution to terminate the receivables facility. On September 18, 2006, in accordance with the terms of the receivables facility, the financing entity caused the preferred debt securities to be exchanged for cash of $2.2 million, a two year floating rate note in an aggregate principal amount of $448.0 million and a cash premium of $5.2 million. Because this debt matures in September 2008, the entire amount is considered to be short-term at December 31, 2007. At any time prior to maturity of the note, the holder may elect to convert it into new preferred debt securities of the financing entity with a par value equal to the outstanding principal amount of the note. The note must be repaid and any preferred debt securities into which the note is converted must be retired or redeemed before the Company can have access to the financing entity’s receivables. As of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, the aggregate amount of outstanding receivables sold under this facility was $643.3 million and $696.7 million, respectively. The receivables and the preferred debt securities or note, as applicable, are recorded in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.  

The Company believes that available cash, cash flows generated from future operations, access to debt markets and availability under its revolving credit facility, including issuing commercial paper, will be adequate to fund the Company’s short-term and long-term financing needs.  

Uses  

Historically, the Company’s primary uses of liquidity and capital resources have included acquisitions, dividend payments, capital expenditures and payments on debt.  

In 2007, the Company made payments on notes payable, commercial paper and long-term debt of $478.3 million compared to $511.0 million in 2006. In 2007, the Company issued commercial paper to fund the acquisition of Endicia and to retire a $250.0 million, 6.0% fixed rate medium-term note that matured. In 2006, the Company used available cash to pay off commercial paper and retire a $150.0 million, 6.6% fixed rate medium-term note that matured. See Footnote 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these transactions.  

Aggregate dividends paid were $234.7 million and $232.8 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2008, the Company expects to make similar dividend payments.  

Capital expenditures were $157.3 million and $138.3 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in capital expenditures was driven by spending related to the Company’s SAP initiative. Capital expenditures, including SAP, for 2008 are expected to be in the range of $160 million to $180 million.  

Cash used for acquisitions was $106.0 million in 2007, compared to $60.6 million in 2006. In 2007, the Company acquired Endicia for $51.2 million. In 2006, the Company did not invest in significant acquisitions. See Footnote 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

Cash used for restructuring activities was $53.1 million and $26.1 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. These payments relate primarily to employee termination benefits. In 2008, the Company expects to use approximately $100 million of cash on restructuring activities related to Project Acceleration. See Footnote 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

- 27 -   
In 2007, the Company used net cash of $2.3 million for the disposals of businesses and assets. The amount included payments for transaction fees relating to the divestiture of the Home Décor Europe and Little Tikes businesses, partially offset by proceeds received from the sale of facilities. The Company generated cash proceeds from the disposal of noncurrent assets and sale of businesses of $187.0 million in 2006 relating primarily to the sale of the European Cookware and Little Tikes businesses, as well as the largest portion of its Home Décor Europe business.  

Liquidity Metrics  

Working capital at December 31, 2007 was $87.9 million compared to $580.3 million at December 31, 2006. The current ratio at December 31, 2007 was 1.03:1 compared to 1.31:1 at December 31, 2006. The decrease in working capital is due to an increase of approximately $700 million in current portion of long-term debt. See Footnote 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

Total debt to total capitalization (total debt is net of cash and cash equivalents, and total capitalization includes total debt and stockholders’ equity) was .45:1 at December 31, 2007 and ..52:1 at December 31, 2006.  

The Company believes that cash provided from operations and available borrowing facilities will continue to provide adequate support for the cash needs of existing businesses on a short-term basis; however, certain events, such as significant acquisitions, could require additional external financing on a long-term basis.  

Resolution of Income Tax Contingencies  

In 2007 and 2006, the Company recorded $41.3 million and $102.8 million, respectively, in income tax benefits as a result of favorable resolution of certain tax matters with the IRS, the expiration of the statute of limitations on certain tax matters and the reorganization of certain legal entities in Europe. These benefits are reflected in the Company’s 2007 and 2006 Consolidated Statements of Income.  

Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

The Company has various contractual obligations that are recorded as liabilities in its consolidated financial statements. Certain other items, such as purchase commitments and other executory contracts, are not recognized as liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial statements but are required to be disclosed. Examples of items not recognized as liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial statements are commitments to purchase raw materials or inventory that has not yet been received as of December 31, 2007 and future minimum lease payments for the use of property and equipment under operating lease agreements.  

The following table summarizes the effect that lease and other material contractual obligations listed below are expected to have on the Company’s cash flow in the indicated period. In addition, the table reflects the timing of principal and interest payments on borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2007. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1)   Amounts represent contractual obligations based on the earliest date that the obligation may become due, excluding interest, based on borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2007. For further information relating to these obligations, see Footnotes 9 and 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 (2)   Amounts represent estimated interest expense on borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2007 based on the earliest date that the obligation may become due. Interest on floating debt was estimated using the index rate in effect as of December 31, 2007. For further information, see Footnotes 9 and 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 (3)   Amounts represent contractual minimum lease obligations on operating leases as of December 31, 2007. For further information relating to this obligation, see Footnote 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

- 28 -   
 (4)   Primarily consists of purchase commitments entered into as of December 31, 2007 for finished goods, raw materials, components and services and joint venture interests pursuant to legally enforceable and binding obligations, which include all significant terms. The Company is obligated to purchase the minority interest of a majority owned subsidiary in 2009. The estimated purchase price of that commitment is included in the purchase obligations amount shown in the table above.  

 (5)   Total does not include contractual obligations reported on the December 31, 2007 balance sheet as current liabilities, except for current portion of long-term debt.    

The Company also has liabilities for uncertain tax liabilities and unrecognized tax benefits. As a large taxpayer, the Company is under continual audit by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities on several open tax positions, and it is possible that the amount of the liability for uncertain tax liabilities and unrecognized tax benefits could change in the coming year. While it is possible that one or more of these examinations may be resolved in the next year, the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time; therefore, the $164.4 million in unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2007 is excluded from the preceding table. See Footnote 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

Additionally, the Company has obligations with respect to its pension and postretirement medical benefit plans. See Footnote 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $87.6 million in standby letters of credit primarily related to the Company’s self-insurance programs, including workers’ compensation, product liability and medical. See Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

As of December 31, 2007, the Company did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

The Company’s accounting policies are more fully described in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As disclosed in that footnote, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following sections describe the Company’s critical accounting policies.  

Sales Recognition  

Sales of merchandise and freight billed to customers are recognized when title passes and all substantial risks of ownership change, which generally occurs either upon shipment or upon delivery based upon contractual terms. Sales are net of provisions for cash discounts, returns, customer discounts (such as volume or trade discounts), cooperative advertising and other sales related discounts.  

Recovery of Accounts Receivable  

The Company evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable based on a combination of factors. When aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations, such as in the case of bankruptcy filings or deterioration in the customer’s operating results or financial position, the Company records a specific reserve for bad debt to reduce the related receivable to the amount the Company reasonably believes is collectible. The Company also records reserves for bad debt for all other customers based on a variety of factors, including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience. Accounts are reviewed for potential write-off on a case by case basis. Accounts deemed uncollectible are written off, net of expected recoveries. If circumstances related to specific customers change, the Company’s estimates of the recoverability of receivables could be further adjusted. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had allowances for doubtful accounts of $26.1 million on $1,192.5 million of accounts receivable.  

- 29 -   
Inventory Reserves  

The Company reduces its inventory value for estimated obsolete and slow moving inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required.  

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets  

The Company conducts its annual test for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the third quarter because it coincides with its annual strategic planning process.  

The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment annually at the operating segment level (herein referred to as the reporting unit). The Company also tests for impairment if events and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is greater than the fair value, impairment may be present. The Company assesses the fair value of its reporting units for its goodwill based on discounted cash flow models, earnings multiples or an actual sales offer received from a prospective buyer, if available. The use of a discounted cash flow model involves several assumptions, and changes in our assumptions could materially impact our fair value estimates. Assumptions critical to the Company’s fair value estimates under the discounted cash flow model include the discount rate, projected average revenue growth, projected long-term growth rates in the determination of terminal values, and product costs. A one percentage point increase in the discount rate used to determine the fair values of our reporting units, which were not deemed to be impaired based on the testing of goodwill in the third quarter as described above, would not cause the carrying value of any reporting unit to exceed its fair value.  

The Company measures the amount of any goodwill impairment based upon the estimated fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, and estimates the implied fair value of goodwill. An impairment charge is recognized to the extent the recorded goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill.  

The Company also evaluates indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily trademarks and trade names) for impairment annually. The Company also tests for impairment if events and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is below its carrying amount. Assumptions critical to the Company’s evaluation of indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment include: the discount rate, royalty rates used in its evaluation of trade names, projected average revenue growth, and projected long-term growth rates in the determination of terminal values. An impairment charge is recorded if the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds the estimated fair value on the measurement date.  

No impairment charges were recorded by the Company as a result of the annual impairment testing performed in the third quarter of 2007 and 2006.  

The Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the Company’s customer base, or a material negative change in its relationships with significant customers.  

Capitalized Software Costs  

The Company capitalizes costs associated with internal-use software during the application development stage after both the preliminary project stage has been completed and the Company’s management has authorized and committed to funding for further project development. Capitalized internal-use software costs include: (i) external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software; (ii) payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote time directly to the project; and (iii) interest costs incurred while developing the software. Capitalization of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended purpose. The Company expenses as incurred research and development, general and administrative and indirect costs associated with internal-use software. In addition, the Company expenses as incurred training, maintenance and other internal-use software costs incurred during the post-implementation stage. Costs associated with upgrades and enhancements of internal-use  

- 30 -   
software are only capitalized if such modifications result in additional functionality of the software. Capitalized software costs were $131.4 million and $86.3 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Capitalized interest costs included in capitalized software were not material as of December 31, 2007 or 2006.  

The Company amortizes internal-use software costs using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software. Capitalized software costs are evaluated annually for indicators of impairment including but not limited to a significant change in available technology or the manner in which the software is being used. Impaired items are written down to their estimated fair values at the date of evaluation.  

Other Long-Lived Assets  

The Company continuously evaluates if impairment indicators related to its property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets are present. These impairment indicators may include a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset or asset group, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset or asset group is being used or in its physical condition, or a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset or asset group. If impairment indicators are present, the Company estimates the future cash flows for the asset or group of assets. The sum of the undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the asset or group of assets is compared to their carrying amount. The cash flows are estimated utilizing various assumptions regarding future revenue and expenses, working capital, and proceeds from asset disposals on a basis consistent with the Company’s strategic plan. If the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows, the Company discounts the future cash flows using a discount rate required for a similar investment of like risk and records an impairment charge as the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the asset group. Generally, the Company performs its testing of the asset group at the product-line level, as this is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are available.  

Product Liability Reserves  

The Company has a self-insurance program for product liability that includes reserves for self-retained losses and certain excess and aggregate risk transfer insurance. The Company uses historical loss experience combined with actuarial evaluation methods, review of significant individual files and the application of risk transfer programs in determining required product liability reserves. The Company’s actuarial evaluation methods take into account claims incurred but not reported when determining the Company’s product liability reserve. The Company has product liability reserves of $34.4 million as of December 31, 2007. While the Company believes that it has adequately reserved for these claims, the ultimate outcome of these matters may exceed the amounts recorded by the Company, and such additional losses may be material to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Legal and Environmental Reserves  

The Company is subject to losses resulting from extensive and evolving federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, as well as contract and other disputes. The Company evaluates the potential legal and environmental losses relating to each specific case and determines the probable loss based on historical experience and estimates of cash flows for certain environmental matters. The estimated losses take into account anticipated costs associated with investigative and remediation efforts where an assessment has indicated that a probable liability has been incurred and the cost can be reasonably estimated. No insurance recovery is taken into account in determining the Company’s cost estimates or reserve, nor do the Company’s cost estimates or reserve reflect any discounting for present value purposes, except with respect to long-term operations and maintenance Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability (“CERCLA”) matters which are estimated at present value. The Company’s estimate of environmental response costs associated with these matters as of December 31, 2007 ranged between $14.5 million and $33.9 million. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had a reserve of $18.8 million for such environmental response costs in the aggregate, which is included in other accrued liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Income Taxes  

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes”, the Company accounts for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability approach. Under this approach, deferred income taxes are recognized based on the tax effects of temporary differences between the  

- 31 -   
financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as measured by current enacted tax rates. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce the deferred tax assets to an amount that will more likely than not be realized. No provision is made for the U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries as substantially all such earnings are permanently reinvested.  

The Company’s income tax provisions are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Although the Company believes that the positions taken on previously filed tax returns are reasonable, it has established tax and interest reserves in recognition that various taxing authorities may challenge the positions taken, which could result in additional liabilities for taxes and interest. The Company regularly reviews its deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies.  

The Company adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”), on January 1, 2007. FIN 48 requires application of a “more likely than not” threshold to the recognition and derecognition of tax positions. The Company’s ongoing assessments of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of tax authority examinations and related tax positions require significant judgment and can increase or decrease the Company’s effective tax rate, as well as impact operating results. The adoption of FIN 48 did not result in an adjustment to beginning retained earnings; however it did result in the reclassification of certain income tax assets and liabilities from current to long-term in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Footnote 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits  

Pension and other postretirement benefit costs and liabilities are dependent on assumptions used in calculating such amounts. The primary assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, expected return on plan assets, mortality rates and rate of compensation increase, discussed below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods, and therefore, generally affect recognized expense and the recorded obligation in future periods. While management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect the Company’s pension and other postretirement plan obligations and future expense. See Footnote 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the assumptions used. The following tables summarize the Company’s pension and other postretirement plan assets and obligations included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2007 (in millions):  

- 32 -   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The following table summarizes the net pre-tax cost (benefit) associated with pensions and other postretirement benefit obligations in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

New Accounting Pronouncements  

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (Revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (“SFAS 141(R)”). SFAS 141(R) significantly changes the accounting for business combination transactions by requiring an acquiring entity to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value. Additionally, SFAS 141(R) modifies the accounting treatment for certain specified items related to business combinations and requires a substantial number of new disclosures. SFAS 141(R) is effective for business combinations with an acquisition date in fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and earlier adoption is prohibited. The Company expects to prospectively adopt SFAS 141(R) on January 1, 2009.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements — An Amendment of ARB No. 51” (“SFAS 160”). SFAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parent’s ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS 160 also establishes reporting requirements that require sufficient disclosures that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. SFAS 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and earlier adoption is prohibited. SFAS 160 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2009. The Company is still in the process of evaluating the impact SFAS 160 will have on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value under generally accepted accounting principles, and requires expanded disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, and states that a fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. SFAS 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements, the FASB having previously concluded in those accounting pronouncements that fair value is the relevant measurement attribute. Accordingly, SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB issued Staff Positions 157-1 and 157-2 which remove certain leasing transactions from the scope of SFAS 157 and partially defer the effective date of SFAS 157 for one year for certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company prospectively adopted the effective provisions of SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008. The adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

- 33 -   
International Operations  

For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s non-U.S. businesses accounted for approximately 28%, 26% and 24% of net sales, respectively (see Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Changes in both U.S. and non-U.S. net sales are shown below for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Forward-Looking Statements  

Forward-looking statements in this Report are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may relate to, but are not limited to, information or assumptions about the effects of Project Acceleration, sales (including pricing), income/(loss), earnings per share, operating income or gross margin improvements, return on equity, return on invested capital, capital expenditures, working capital, cash flow, dividends, capital structure, debt to capitalization ratios, interest rates, internal growth rates, restructuring, impairment and other charges, potential losses on divestitures, impact of changes in accounting standards, pending legal proceedings and claims (including environmental matters), future economic performance, costs and cost savings (including raw material inflation, productivity and streamlining), synergies, management’s plans, goals and objectives for future operations, performance and growth or the assumptions relating to any of the forward-looking statements. These statements generally are accompanied by words such as “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “plan,” “expect,” “will,” “should,” “would” or similar statements. The Company cautions that forward-looking statements are not guarantees because there are inherent difficulties in predicting future results. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ include, but are not limited to, those matters set forth in this Report generally and Item 1A to this Report. Some of these factors are described as criteria for success. The Company’s failure to achieve, or limited success in achieving, these objectives could result in actual results differing materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and assessed all of the factors affecting the Company or that the publicly available and other information the Company receives with respect to these factors is complete or correct.  

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK