PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

General Development of Business  

AMETEK, Inc. (“AMETEK” or the “Company”) is incorporated in Delaware. Its predecessor was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1930 under the name American Machine and Metals, Inc. AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of electronic instruments and electromechanical devices with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. AMETEK maintains its principal executive offices in suburban Philadelphia at 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: AME), the common stock of AMETEK is a component of the Standard and Poor’s 500 and the Russell 1000 Indices.  

Website Access to Information  

AMETEK’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on the Company’s website at www.ametek.com in the “Investors — Financial News and Information” section as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. AMETEK has posted free of charge on the investor information portion of its website its corporate governance guidelines, Board committee charters and codes of ethics. Those documents also are available in published form free of charge to any stockholder who requests them by writing to the Investor Relations Department at AMETEK, Inc., 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312.  

Products and Services  

AMETEK’s products are marketed and sold worldwide through two operating groups: Electronic Instruments (“EIG”) and Electromechanical (“EMG”). Electronic Instruments is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced instruments for the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. Electromechanical is a differentiated supplier of precision motion control solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. Its end markets include aerospace and defense, medical, automation, mass transit, petrochemical and other industrial markets.  

Competitive Strengths  

Management believes AMETEK has significant competitive advantages that help strengthen and sustain its market positions. Those advantages include:  

Significant Market Share. AMETEK maintains significant market share in a number of targeted niche markets through its ability to produce and deliver high-quality products at competitive prices. EIG has significant market positions in niche segments of the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. EMG holds significant positions in niche segments of the aerospace and defense, precision motion control, automation, medical and mass transit markets.  

Technological and Development Capabilities. AMETEK believes it has certain technological advantages over its competitors that allow it to maintain its leading market positions. Historically, it has demonstrated an ability to develop innovative new products that anticipate customer needs and to bring them to market successfully. It has consistently added to its investment in research, development and engineering and improved its new product development efforts with the adoption of Design for Six Sigma and Value Analysis/Value Engineering methodologies. These have improved the pace and quality of product innovation and resulted in the introduction of a steady stream of new products across all of AMETEK’s lines of business.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Efficient and Low-Cost Manufacturing Operations. Through its Operational Excellence initiatives, AMETEK has established a lean manufacturing platform for its businesses. In its effort to achieve best-cost manufacturing, AMETEK has established plants in Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, and Serbia. These plants offer proximity to customers and provide opportunities for increasing international sales. Acquisitions also have allowed AMETEK to reduce costs and achieve operating synergies by consolidating operations, product lines and distribution channels, benefitting both of AMETEK’s operating groups.  

Experienced Management Team. Another component of AMETEK’s success is the strength of its management team and that team’s commitment to improving Company performance. AMETEK senior management has extensive industry experience and an average of approximately 24 years of AMETEK service. The management team is focused on achieving results, building stockholder value and continually growing AMETEK. Individual performance is tied to financial results through Company-established stock ownership guidelines and equity incentive programs.  

Business Strategy  

AMETEK is committed to achieving earnings growth through the successful implementation of a Corporate Growth Plan. The goal of that plan is double-digit annual percentage growth in earnings per share over the business cycle and a superior return on total capital. In addition, other financial initiatives have been or may be undertaken, including public and private debt or equity issuance, bank debt refinancing, local financing in certain foreign countries and share repurchases.  

AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan consists of four key strategies:  

Operational Excellence. Operational Excellence is AMETEK’s cornerstone strategy for improving profit margins and strengthening its competitive position across its businesses. Operational Excellence focuses on cost reductions, improvements in operating efficiencies and sustainable practices. It emphasizes team building and a participative management culture. AMETEK’s Operational Excellence strategies include lean manufacturing, global sourcing, Design for Six Sigma and Value Engineering/Value Analysis. Each plays an important role in improving efficiency, enhancing the pace and quality of innovation and cost reduction. Operational Excellence initiatives have yielded lower operating and administrative costs, shortened manufacturing cycle times, and resulted in higher cash flow from operations and increased customer satisfaction. They also have played a key role in achieving synergies from newly acquired companies.  

Strategic Acquisitions. Acquisitions are a key to achieving the goals of AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. Since the beginning of 2012 through December 31, 2016, AMETEK has completed 22 acquisitions with annualized sales totaling approximately $1.2 billion, including five acquisitions in 2016 (see “Recent Acquisitions”). AMETEK targets companies that offer the right strategic, technical and cultural fit. It seeks to acquire businesses in adjacent markets with complementary products and technologies. It also looks for businesses that provide attractive growth opportunities, often in new and emerging markets. Through these and prior acquisitions, AMETEK’s management team has developed considerable skill in identifying, acquiring and integrating new businesses. As it has executed its acquisition strategy, AMETEK’s mix of businesses has shifted toward those that are more highly differentiated and, therefore, offer better opportunities for growth and profitability.  

Global & Market Expansion. AMETEK has experienced dramatic growth outside the United States, reflecting an expanding international customer base and the attractive growth potential of its businesses in overseas markets. While Europe remains its largest overseas market, AMETEK has pursued growth opportunities worldwide, especially in key emerging markets. It has grown sales in Latin America and Asia by strategically building, acquiring and expanding manufacturing facilities. AMETEK also has expanded its  

3  

Table of Contents 

 sales and service capabilities in China and enhanced its sales presence and engineering capabilities in India. Elsewhere in Asia and in the Middle East, it has expanded sales, service and technical support. Recently acquired businesses have further added to AMETEK’s international presence.  

New Products. New products are essential to AMETEK’s long-term growth. As a result, AMETEK has maintained a consistent investment in new product development and engineering. In 2016, AMETEK added to its highly differentiated product portfolio with a range of new products across many of its businesses. They included:  

   •    Creaform’s HandyPROBE Next 3D scanner represents the latest advancement in optical-based, non-contact inspection for quality control, offering a rugged design, accuracy and ease of use;  

   •    TMC’s EverstillTM K-400 benchtop platform offers patented vibration cancellation technology for highly sensitive devices such as optical and scanning probe microscopes and metrology instruments;  

   •    Sensors and Fluid Management Systems’ jet engine exhaust gas thermocouple is made of an advance ceramic matrix composite that extends the thermocouple’s life and performance;  

   •    Vision Research’s Phantom® VEO high-speed camera is built into a five-inch cube that is packed with full-size camera features and has the ability to withstand up to 100Gs of force;  

   •    Solartron Analytical’s Apps-XM (extreme measurement) Series instruments were developed for such highly targeted research applications as the testing of energy storage devices and solar cell materials;  

   •    Grabner Instruments’ MINIVAP VP Vision vapor pressure tester offers portability and versatility in testing the vapor pressure of gasolines, jet fuels, crude oils, and volatile solvents;  

   •    Rotron’s SemiCool precision fans and custom cooling systems offer precise temperature control in a compact package for semiconductor-specific applications;  

   •    Programmable Power’s Asterion™ AC/DC Power Platform established new industry benchmarks in terms of power density performance, versatility, adaptability and ease of use;  

   •    Chandler Engineering’s Model 5400 AUTO Shear History Simulator simplifies preparation and loading of water-based fracturing fluids used by the oil and gas industry to enhance production;  

   •    Zygo’s latest Verifire optical testing products incorporate software and hardware technology enhancements that help to ensure the production of more precise optical components and systems;  

   •    Pittman Motor’s 22mm DC022C Series motors are highly customizable for such high-tech applications as medical devices, process equipment and laboratory instruments; and  

   •    CAMECA’s EIKOS™ atom probe microscope brings state-of-art atom probe tomography cost effectively to academic and industrial researchers conduction nanoscale materials research.  

2016 OVERVIEW  

Operating Performance  

In 2016, AMETEK achieved sales of $3,840.1 million, a decrease of 3.4% from 2015. The Company was impacted by a weak global economy and the effects of a continued strong U.S. dollar. Specifically, the Company experienced lower sales in its process businesses that have exposure to oil and gas markets and in its engineered materials, interconnects and packaging businesses that have exposure to metals markets. In 2016, AMETEK established record operating cash flow.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Financing  

In March 2016, the Company along with certain of its foreign subsidiaries amended and restated its credit agreement dated as of September 22, 2011 (the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement amends and restates the Company’s existing $700 million revolving credit facility, which was due to expire in December 2018. The Credit Agreement consists of a five-year revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $850 million with a final maturity date in March 2021. The revolving credit facility total borrowing capacity excludes an accordion feature that permits the Company to request up to an additional $300 million in revolving credit commitments at any time during the life of the Credit Agreement under certain conditions. The revolving credit facility provides the Company with additional financial flexibility to support its growth plans, including its acquisition strategy.  

In October 2016, the Company completed a private placement agreement to sell 500 million Euros and 225 million British pounds in senior notes to a group of institutional investors (the “2016 Private Placement”). There were two funding dates under the 2016 Private Placement. The first funding occurred in October 2016 for 500 million Euros ($546.8 million) and the second funding occurred in November 2016 for 225 million British pounds ($274.1 million). The proceeds from the first funding of the 2016 Private Placement were used to pay down domestic borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility. The proceeds from the second funding of the 2016 Private Placement were used to pay down, at maturity, a 40 million British pound ($48.7 million) 5.99% senior note in November 2016 and provides the Company with additional financial flexibility to support its growth plans, including its acquisition strategy. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.  

Recent Acquisitions  

AMETEK spent $391.4 million in cash, net of cash acquired, to acquire five businesses in 2016.  

In January 2016, AMETEK acquired Brookfield Engineering Laboratories (“Brookfield”), a manufacturer of viscometers and rheometers, as well as instrumentation to analyze texture and powder flow. Brookfield is part of EIG.  

In January 2016, AMETEK acquired ESP/SurgeX, a manufacturer of energy intelligence and power protection, monitoring and diagnostic solutions. ESP/SurgeX is part of EIG.  

In July 2016, AMETEK acquired HS Foils, a developer and manufacturer of key components used in radiation detectors including ultra-thin radiation windows, silicon drift detectors and x-ray filters. HS Foils is part of EIG.  

In July 2016, AMETEK acquired Nu Instruments, a provider of magnetic sector mass spectrometers used for elemental and isotope analysis. Nu Instruments is part of EIG.  

In October 2016, AMETEK acquired Laserage Technology Corporation (“Laserage”), a provider of laser fabrication services for the medical device market. Laserage is part of EMG.  

Financial Information About Reportable Segments, Foreign Operations and Export Sales  

Information with respect to reportable segments and geographic areas is set forth in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

AMETEK’s international sales decreased 2.1% to $2,010.7 million in 2016. International sales represented 52.4% of consolidated net sales in 2016 compared with 51.7% in 2015. The decrease in international sales was primarily driven by a weak global economy and the effects of a continued strong U.S. dollar noted above.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Description of Business  

Described below are the products and markets of each reportable segment:  

EIG  

EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced instruments for the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. Its growth is based on the four strategies outlined in AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. In many instances, its products differ from or are technologically superior to its competitors’ products. It has achieved competitive advantage through continued investment in research, development and engineering to develop market-leading products that serve niche markets. It also has expanded its sales and service capabilities globally to serve its customers.  

EIG is a leader in many of the specialized markets it serves. Products supplied to these markets include process control instruments for the oil and gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, semiconductor and automation industries. It provides a growing range of instruments to the laboratory equipment, ultraprecision manufacturing, medical, and test and measurement markets. It is a leader in power quality monitoring and metering, uninterruptible power systems, programmable power equipment, electromagnetic compatibility (“EMC”) test equipment, sensors for gas turbines, and dashboard instruments for heavy trucks and other vehicles. It supplies the aerospace industry with aircraft and engine sensors, monitoring systems, power supplies, fuel and fluid measurement systems, and data acquisition systems.  

In 2016, 53% of EIG’s net sales was to customers outside the United States. At December 31, 2016, EIG employed approximately 8,300 people, of whom approximately 1,100 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2016, EIG had 84 operating facilities: 53 in the United States, nine in the United Kingdom, eight in Germany, three in Canada, two each in China and France and one each in Argentina, Austria, Denmark, Finland, Mexico, Switzerland and Taiwan. EIG also shares operating facilities with EMG in Brazil, China and Mexico.  

Process and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Process and analytical instrumentation sales represented 65% of EIG’s 2016 net sales. These sales include process analyzers, emission monitors, spectrometers, elemental and surface analysis instruments, level, pressure and temperature sensors and transmitters, radiation measurement devices, level measurement devices, precision pumping systems, materials- and force-testing instruments, and contact and non-contact metrology products. Among the industries it serves are oil, gas and petrochemical refining, power generation, pharmaceutical manufacturing, specialty gas production, water and waste treatment, natural gas distribution, and semiconductor manufacturing. Its instruments are used for precision measurement in a number of applications, including radiation detection, trace element and materials analysis, nanotechnology research, ultraprecise manufacturing, and test and measurement.  

Acquired in July 2016, HS Foils develops patented silicon nitride window technology that significantly expands the limits of x-ray window performance and areas of application. HS Foils also has extensive expertise in silicon PIN diode and silicon drift detector manufacturing.  

Acquired in July 2016, Nu Instruments offers a full suite of magnetic sector mass spectrometers used in advanced laboratory analysis across demanding research applications in earth and environmental sciences, material characterization, and nuclear isotope analysis. Nu Instruments’ customers include leading universities and research institutions, and technical manufacturing and materials analysis companies.  

Acquired in July 2015, Surface Vision is a global leader in non-destructive process inspection. Surface Vision’s in-line image processing technology detects, classifies, filters and accurately maps specific defects over an entire surface area. End markets include the metals, paper, nonwovens, plastics and glass industries.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Power and Industrial Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Power and industrial instrumentation sales represented 27% of EIG’s 2016 net sales. This business provides power monitoring and metering instruments, uninterruptible power supply systems and programmable power supplies used in a wide range of industrial settings. It is a leader in the design and manufacture of power measurement, quality monitoring and event recorders for use in power generation, transmission and distribution. It provides uninterruptible power supply systems, multifunction electric meters, annunciators, alarm monitoring systems and highly specialized communications equipment for smart grid applications. It also offers precision power supplies and power conditioning products and electrical immunity and EMC test equipment.  

Acquired in January 2016, Brookfield is the global leader in viscosity measurement instrumentation and offers a complete range of viscometers and rheometers, as well as instrumentation to analyze texture and powder flow. Its products are used primarily for quality control applications in a broad range of markets including food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, oil and gas, paints, solvents, chemicals, coatings and packaging.  

Acquired in January 2016, ESP/SurgeX is a leader in power protection, monitoring, and diagnostic solutions. ESP/SurgeX is the leading industry provider of on-site and remote power protection products used by industries to lower service costs and ensure reliable electric power to critical equipment. Its patented technology is widely used by the business equipment, imaging, audio visual, information technology, gaming and vending industries.  

Aerospace Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Aerospace instrumentation sales represented 8% of EIG’s 2016 net sales. AMETEK’s aerospace products are designed to customer specifications and manufactured to stringent operational and reliability requirements. These products include airborne data systems, turbine engine temperature measurement products, vibration-monitoring systems, cockpit instruments and displays, fuel and fluid measurement products, sensors and switches. It serves all segments of the commercial and military aerospace market, including commercial airliners, business jets, regional aircraft and helicopters.  

AMETEK operates in highly specialized aerospace market segments in which it has proven technological or manufacturing advantages versus its competition. Among its more significant competitive advantages is its 50-plus years’ experience as an aerospace supplier. It has long-standing relationships with the world’s leading commercial and military aircraft, jet engine and original equipment manufacturers and aerospace system integrators. AMETEK also provides the commercial aerospace aftermarket with spare part sales and repair and overhaul services.  

Customers  

EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EIG’s operations. Approximately 6% of EIG’s 2016 net sales was made to its five largest customers.  

EMG  

EMG is a differentiated supplier of precision motion control solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. EMG is a leader in many of the niche markets in which it competes. Products supplied to these markets include its highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used in aerospace and defense, medical, and industrial applications, as well as its advanced technical motor and motion control products, which are used in a wide range of medical devices, office and business equipment, automation and other applications.  

7  

Table of Contents 

EMG supplies high-purity powdered metals, strip and foil, specialty clad metals and metal matrix composites. Its blowers and heat exchangers provide electronic cooling and environmental control for the aerospace and defense industries. Its motors are widely used in commercial appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, hydraulic pumps, industrial blowers and vacuum cleaners. Additionally, it operates a global network of aviation maintenance, repair and overhaul (“MRO”) facilities.  

EMG designs and manufactures products that, in many instances, are significantly different from or technologically superior to competitors’ products. It has achieved competitive advantage through continued investment in research, development and engineering, cost reductions from operational improvements, acquisition synergies and improved supply chain management.  

In 2016, 51% of EMG’s net sales was to customers outside the United States. At December 31, 2016, EMG employed approximately 7,200 people, of whom approximately 2,400 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2016, EMG had 65 operating facilities: 37 in the United States, ten in the United Kingdom, four in France, three in China, two each in Germany, Italy and Mexico and one each in Brazil, the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Serbia and Taiwan.  

Technical Motors and Systems Markets and Products  

Technical motors and systems sales represented 65% of EMG’s 2016 net sales. Technical motors and systems primarily consist of precision motion control solutions, brushless motors, blowers and pumps, heat exchangers and other electromechanical systems. These products are used in aerospace and defense, semiconductor equipment, computer equipment, mass transit, medical equipment and power industries among others. Additionally, technical motors and systems includes floor care and specialty motors which are used in a wide range of products, such as household, commercial and personal care appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, lawn and garden equipment, material handling equipment, hydraulic pumps, industrial blowers, vacuum cleaners, and other household and commercial floor care products.  

EMG produces motor-blower systems and heat exchangers used in thermal management and other applications on a variety of military and commercial aircraft and military ground vehicles. In addition, EMG provides the commercial and military aerospace industry with third-party MRO services on a global basis with facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia.  

Engineered Materials, Interconnects and Packaging Markets and Products  

Engineered materials, interconnects and packaging sales represented 35% of EMG’s 2016 net sales. AMETEK is a leader in highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used to protect sensitive devices and mission-critical electronics. Its electrical connectors, terminals, headers and packaging are designed specifically for harsh environments and highly customized applications. In addition, AMETEK is an innovator and market leader in specialized metal powder, strip, wire and bonded products used in medical, aerospace and defense, telecommunications, automotive and general industrial applications.  

Acquired in October 2016, Laserage offers precision tube fabrication of minimally invasive surgical devices, stents and catheter-based delivery systems. Laserage’s expertise includes laser fabrication of flat stock and tube for medical devices and specialty catheters.  

Acquired in May 2015, Global Tubes manufactures highly customized metal tubing from a wide variety of metals and alloys, including stainless steel, nickel, zirconium and titanium. Its products are used in highly engineered applications in the aerospace, energy, power generation and medical industries.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Customers  

EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EMG’s operations. Approximately 9% of EMG’s 2016 net sales was made to its five largest customers.  

Marketing  

AMETEK’s marketing efforts generally are organized and carried out at the business unit level. EIG makes use of distributors and sales representatives to market its products along with a direct sales force for its more technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, the specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers. Given the technical nature of many of its products, as well as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts much of its domestic and international marketing activities through a direct sales force and makes some use of sales representatives and distributors, both in the United States and in other countries.  

Competition  

In general, most of AMETEK’s markets are highly competitive with competition based on technology, performance, quality, service and price.  

In EIG’s markets, AMETEK believes it ranks as a leader in certain analytical measuring and control instruments and in the U.S. heavy-vehicle and power and industrial markets. It also is a major instrument and sensor supplier to commercial aviation. Competition is strong and may become intense for certain EIG products. In process and analytical instruments, numerous companies compete in each market on the basis of product quality, performance and innovation. In power and industrial and aerospace, AMETEK competes with a number of diversified companies depending on the specific market segment.  

EMG’s differentiated businesses compete with a limited number of companies in each of its markets. Competition is generally based on product innovation, performance and price. There also is competition from alternative materials and processes.  

Availability of Raw Materials  

AMETEK’s reportable segments obtain raw materials and supplies from a variety of sources and generally from more than one supplier. For EMG, however, certain items, including various base metals and certain steel components, are available from only a limited number of suppliers. AMETEK believes its sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for its needs.  

Backlog and Seasonal Variations of Business  

AMETEK’s backlog of unfilled orders by reportable segment was as follows at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at December 31, 2016, approximately 88% is expected to be shipped by December 31, 2017. The Company believes that neither its business as a whole, nor either of its reportable segments, is subject to significant seasonal variations, although certain individual operations experience some seasonal variability.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Research, Development and Engineering  

AMETEK is committed to, and has consistently invested in, research, development and engineering activities to design and develop new and improved products. Research, development and engineering costs before customer reimbursement were $200.8 million in both 2016 and 2015 and $208.3 million in 2014, respectively. Customer reimbursements in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $7.2 million, $6.9 million and $8.9 million, respectively. These amounts included research and development expenses of $112.0 million, $116.3 million and $119.3 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. All such expenditures were directed toward the development of new products and processes and the improvement of existing products and processes.  

Environmental Matters  

Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth in Part II, Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section entitled “Environmental Matters” and in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks  

AMETEK owns numerous unexpired U.S. and foreign patents, including counterparts of its more important U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the world. It is a licensor or licensee under patent agreements of various types, and its products are marketed under various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names. AMETEK, however, does not consider any single patent or trademark, or any group of them, essential either to its business as a whole or to either one of its reportable segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license agreements are not significant to either of its reportable segments or to AMETEK’s overall operations.  

Employees  

At December 31, 2016, AMETEK employed approximately 15,700 people at its EIG, EMG and corporate operations, of whom approximately 3,500 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. AMETEK has two collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2017 that covers fewer than 100 employees. It expects no material adverse effects from the pending labor contract negotiations.  

Working Capital Practices  

AMETEK does not have extraordinary working capital requirements in either of its reportable segments. Its customers generally are billed at normal trade terms that may include extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely controlled and maintained at levels related to production cycles and normal delivery requirements of customers.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors