Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This annual report on Form 10-K, including the following management’s discussion and analysis, contains forward-looking information that you should read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements that we have included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. For this purpose, any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “will” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the plans, intentions or expectations we disclose in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included important factors above under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A above that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We are not obligated to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Accounting Period

Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest December 31. We report fiscal years under a 52/53 week format. Under this method, certain years will contain 53 weeks. The fiscal year ended January 1, 2012 included 52 weeks. The fiscal years ended January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010 included 52 weeks and 53 weeks, respectively. The fiscal year ending December 30, 2012 will include 52 weeks.

Overview of Fiscal Year 2011 

During fiscal year 2011, we continued to see good performance from acquisitions, investments in our ongoing technology and sales and marketing initiatives. Our overall revenue in fiscal year 2011 increased $216.9 million, or 13%, as compared to fiscal year 2010, reflecting an increase of $90.9 million, or 11%, in our Human Health segment revenue and an increase of $126.1 million, or 14%, in our Environmental Health segment revenue. The increase in our Human Health segment revenue during fiscal year 2011 was due primarily to growth generated from both our diagnostics and our medical imaging businesses, partially offset by weakening demand in the research market. The increase in our Environmental Health segment revenue during fiscal year 2011 was due primarily to growth generated from our environmental, food and consumer safety and testing products, as well as in the industrial markets primarily related to chemical processing and energy applications supported by our molecular spectroscopy and chromatography platforms. We also experienced continued growth in our OneSource® multivendor service offering as our comprehensive service offering continues to grow with our key customers.

In our Human Health segment during fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010, we experienced growth in the diagnostics market from increased demand for our neonatal and infectious disease screening offerings, particularly in emerging markets such as China and Brazil. In our medical imaging business, we had continued growth from industrial and veterinary applications, as well as demand for our newly acquired complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (“CMOS”) imaging technology for orthopedic surgical and industrial applications. We also completed our strategic acquisition of Dexela Limited ("Dexela"), which is intended to add complementary imaging technology that should expand our medical imaging business and diversify our customer base. The increases attributable to these factors were partially offset by the impact of tight inventory management in state and national labs for neonatal screening in the diagnostics market. We experienced growth in the research market due to continued demand for our pre-clinical offerings including our Operetta® cellular imaging instrument utilized for in vitro research, our fluorescent reagents utilized for in vivo imaging, our JANUS® automation tools and our EnVision® and EnSpire™ multi-mode plate readers. The growth in the research market was offset in part by reduced sales to pharmaceutical companies resulting from continued customer consolidations in the pharmaceutical market. Despite this decline, we are encouraged by growth in China and India as demand from internal pharmaceutical research is migrating to lower cost regions. We also completed our strategic acquisition of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. ("Caliper"), which is intended to enhance our molecular imaging and detection technologies and to complement our offerings in life science, diagnostics, environmental and food markets. As the rising cost of healthcare continues to be one of the critical issues facing our customers, we anticipate that even with continued pressure on lab budgets and credit availability, the benefits of providing earlier detection of disease, which can result in savings of long-term health care costs as well as creating better outcomes for patients, are increasingly valued and we expect to see continued growth in these markets.

In our Environmental Health segment, sales of environmental, food and consumer safety and testing products grew in fiscal year 2011 as increased regulations in environmental and food safety markets continue to drive strong demand for our analytical instrumentation and follow-on consumables. We saw continued strength in our inorganic analysis solutions, such as our recently launched NexION® mass spectrometer, as trace metals identification remains a critical component of contaminant detection for environmental, as well as food and consumer safety, applications. We also had continued growth in our molecular spectroscopy offering utilized primarily for materials analysis, chemical processing and semi-conductor applications in the industrial markets. We believe these trends will continue as emerging contaminant testing protocols and corresponding regulations are developed, resulting in continued demand for highly efficient, analytically sensitive and information rich testing 

28
solutions. Our laboratory services business continued to grow during fiscal year 2011 by adding new customers to our OneSource multivendor service offering, as well as continued growth of our comprehensive service offering with our key customers. Our laboratory services business offers services designed to enable our customers to increase efficiencies and production time, while reducing maintenance costs, all of which continue to be critical for our customers. We also completed our strategic acquisition of CambridgeSoft Corporation ("CambridgeSoft"), a provider of scientific databases and professional services. This acquisition is intended to expand our software offerings to provide customers with solutions that help them create, analyze and communicate scientific data while improving the speed, quality, efficiency and predictability of their research and development investments. 

Our consolidated gross margins decreased 39 basis points in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010, due to the fiscal year 2011 mark-to-market charge for our postretirement benefit plans, changes in product mix with growth in sales of lower gross margin product offerings and increased freight costs, partially offset by increased sales volume and cost containment and productivity initiatives. Our consolidated operating margin decreased 450 basis points in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010, primarily as a result of the fiscal year 2011 mark-to-market charge for our postretirement benefit plans, increased costs related to acquisitions, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased freight costs, and growth investments in research and development, partially offset by cost containment and productivity initiatives.

We believe we are well positioned to continue to take advantage of the stable spending trends in our end markets and to promote our efficiencies in markets where current conditions may increase demand for certain services. Overall, we believe that our strategic focus on Human Health and Environmental Health coupled with our breadth of end markets, deep portfolio of technologies and applications, leading market positions, global scale and financial strength will provide us with a strong foundation for continued growth.

Consolidated Results of Continuing Operations

Revenue

2011 Compared to 2010. Revenue for fiscal year 2011 was $1,921.3 million, as compared to $1,704.3 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $216.9 million, or 13%, which includes an approximate 4% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and an approximate 3% increase in revenue attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment revenue for fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and acquisitions. The total increase in revenue reflects a $90.9 million, or 11%, increase in our Human Health segment revenue, due to an increase in diagnostics market revenue of $52.5 million and an increase in research market revenue of $38.4 million. Our Environmental Health segment revenue increased $126.1 million, or 14%, due to increases in environmental and industrial markets revenue of $75.9 million, and an increase in laboratory services market revenue of $50.1 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $30.8 million of revenue primarily related to our informatics business in our Environmental Health segment for fiscal year 2011 and $0.7 million for fiscal year 2010 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods.

2010 Compared to 2009. Revenue for fiscal year 2010 was $1,704.3 million, as compared to $1,550.8 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $153.6 million, or 10%, which includes an approximate 2% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and no net impact from changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment revenue for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and acquisitions. The total increase in revenue reflects a $64.7 million, or 9%, increase in our Human Health segment revenue, due to an increase in diagnostics market revenue of $54.5 million and an increase in research market revenue of $10.2 million. Our Environmental Health segment revenue increased $88.9 million, or 11%, due to increases in environmental and industrial markets revenue of $47.5 million, and an increase in laboratory services market revenue of $41.4 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $0.7 million of revenue for both fiscal years 2010 and 2009 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods.

Cost of Revenue

2011 Compared to 2010. Cost of revenue for fiscal year 2011 was $1,070.7 million, as compared to $943.1 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of approximately $127.6 million, or 14%. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue increased to 55.7% in fiscal year 2011 from 55.3% in fiscal year 2010, resulting in a decrease in gross margin of approximately 39 basis points to 44.3% in fiscal year 2011 from 44.7% in fiscal year 2010. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $53.4 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $42.5 million for fiscal year 2010. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $4.2 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to a loss of $0.1 million for fiscal year 

29
2010. Stock-based compensation expense increased and was $1.1 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $0.9 million for fiscal year 2010. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions added an expense of approximately $4.1 million for fiscal year 2011. In addition to the above, the decrease in gross margin was primarily the result of changes in product mix with growth in sales of lower gross margin product offerings and increased freight costs, partially offset by increased sales volume, productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives.

2010 Compared to 2009. Cost of revenue for fiscal year 2010 was $943.1 million, as compared to $849.5 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of approximately $93.6 million, or 11%. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue increased to 55.3% in fiscal year 2010 from 54.8% in fiscal year 2009, resulting in a decrease in gross margin of approximately 55 basis points to 44.7% in fiscal year 2010 from 45.2% in fiscal year 2009. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $42.5 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $36.3 million for fiscal year 2009. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $0.1 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to a loss of $0.8 million for fiscal year 2009. Stock-based compensation expense decreased and was $0.9 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $1.2 million for fiscal year 2009. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $1.1 million for fiscal year 2009. In addition to the above, the decrease in gross margin was primarily the result of changes in product mix, with growth in sales in fiscal year 2010 primarily of lower gross margin product offerings, partially offset by increased sales volume, productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

2011 Compared to 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2011 were $627.2 million, as compared to $489.9 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of approximately $137.3 million, or 28%. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses increased and were 32.6% in fiscal year 2011, compared to 28.7% in fiscal year 2010. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $25.9 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $16.6 million for fiscal year 2010. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $62.9 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to a loss of $0.2 million for fiscal year 2010. Stock-based compensation expense increased and was $13.8 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $11.2 million for fiscal year 2010. The gain on the sale of a facility in Boston, Massachusetts that was damaged in a fire in March 2005 was $3.4 million for fiscal year 2010. Acquisition related costs for integration, contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $11.0 million for fiscal year 2011 and $2.8 million for fiscal year 2010. In addition to the above, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of costs related to acquisitions and increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, partially offset by cost containment and productivity initiatives.

2010 Compared to 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2010 were $489.9 million, as compared to $476.8 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of approximately $13.1 million, or 3%. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased and were 28.7% in fiscal year 2010, compared to 30.7% in fiscal year 2009. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $16.6 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $15.8 million for fiscal year 2009. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $0.2 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to a loss of $5.1 million for fiscal year 2009. Stock-based compensation expense was $11.2 million for both fiscal years 2010 and 2009. The gain on the sale of a facility in Boston, Massachusetts that was damaged in a fire in March 2005 was $3.4 million for fiscal year 2010. Acquisition related costs for integration, contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $2.8 million for fiscal year 2010 and $1.7 million for fiscal year 2009. In addition to the above, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, and foreign exchange, partially offset by cost containment initiatives.

Research and Development Expenses

2011 Compared to 2010. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2011 were $115.8 million, as compared to $94.8 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $21.0 million, or 22%. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 6.0% in fiscal year 2011, as compared to 5.6% in fiscal year 2010. Amortization of intangible assets decreased and was $0.7 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $1.6 million for fiscal year 2010. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a loss of $0.8 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to a minimal gain for fiscal year 2010. Stock-based compensation expense increased and was $0.6 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to $0.5 million for fiscal year 2010. We directed research and development efforts similarly during fiscal years 2011 and 2010, primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental, and laboratory service and support markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives.

30
2010 Compared to 2009. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2010 were $94.8 million, as compared to $90.5 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $4.3 million, or 5%. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses decreased to 5.6% in fiscal year 2010, as compared to 5.8% in fiscal year 2009. Amortization of intangible assets decreased and was $1.6 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $2.0 million for fiscal year 2009. The mark-to-market adjustment for postretirement benefit plans was a minimal gain for fiscal year 2010, as compared to a loss of $0.5 million for fiscal year 2009. Stock-based compensation expense increased and was $0.5 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $0.4 million for fiscal year 2009. We directed research and development efforts similarly during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental, and laboratory service and support markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives.

Restructuring and Contract Termination Charges, Net

We have undertaken a series of restructuring actions related to the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, alignment with our growth strategy and the integration of our business units. Restructuring and contract termination charges, net, for fiscal year 2011 were a $13.5 million charge, as compared to a $19.0 million charge for fiscal year 2010 and an $18.0 million charge for fiscal year 2009.

The following table summarizes our restructuring accrual balances and related activity by restructuring plan during fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The restructuring plans for the fourth quarter and second quarter of fiscal year 2011 and fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 were intended principally to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets. The restructuring plan for the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 was intended principally to reduce resources in response to the continued economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets and to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets. The activities associated with these plans have been reported as restructuring expenses and are included as a component of operating expenses from continuing operations. We expect the impact of immediate cost savings from the restructuring plans on operating results and cash flows to approximately offset the increased spending in higher growth regions and the decline in revenue from certain products, respectively. We expect the impact of future cost savings from these restructuring activities on operating results and cash flows to be negligible, as we will incur offsetting costs by shifting resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets. 

Q4 2011 Restructuring Plan

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, our management approved a plan to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (the “Q4 2011 Plan”). As a result of the Q4 2011 Plan, we recognized a $2.3 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. We also recognized a $4.7 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. 

As part of the Q4 2011 Plan, we reduced headcount by 114 employees. All employee notifications and actions related to the closure of excess facility space for the Q4 2011 Plan were completed by January 1, 2012. All employees have been notified of termination and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $4.7 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $0.4 million for the closure of excess facility space will be paid through fiscal year 2022, in accordance with the terms of the applicable leases.

31
The following table summarizes the components of our Q4 2011 Plan activity recognized by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Q2 2011 Restructuring Plan

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, our management approved a plan to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (the “Q2 2011 Plan”). As a result of the Q2 2011 Plan, we recognized a $2.2 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. We also recognized a $3.4 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. 

As part of the Q2 2011 Plan, we reduced headcount by 72 employees. All employee notifications and actions related to the closure of excess facility space for the Q2 2011 Plan were completed by July 3, 2011. All employees have been notified of termination and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $1.3 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012.

The following table summarizes the components of our Q2 2011 Plan activity recognized by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Q4 2010 Plan

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, our management approved a plan to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (our “Q4 2010 Plan”). As a result of our Q4 2010 Plan, we recognized a $5.7 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. We also recognized a $7.8 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. The restructuring costs for the closure of excess facility space was offset by the recognition of a $2.8 million gain that had been deferred from a previous sales-leaseback transaction on this facility. During fiscal year 2011, we recorded an additional pre-tax restructuring accrual of $0.3 million relating to the Q4 2010 Plan due to a reduction in the estimated sublease rental payments reasonably expected to be obtained for our excess facility space in our Environmental Health segment.

As part of our Q4 2010 Plan, we reduced headcount by 113 employees. All employee notifications and actions related to the closure of excess facility space for the Q4 2010 Plan were completed by January 2, 2011. All employees have been notified of termination and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $0.5 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $3.8 million for the closure of excess facility space will be paid through fiscal year 2022, in accordance with the terms of the applicable leases.

32
The following table summarizes the components of our Q4 2010 Plan activity recognized by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Q2 2010 Plan

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, our management approved a plan to reduce resources in response to the continued economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets and to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (our “Q2 2010 Plan”). As a result of our Q2 2010 Plan, we recognized a $7.3 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facility space. The restructuring costs for the closure of excess facility space was offset by the recognition of a $0.1 million gain that had been deferred from a previous sales-leaseback transaction on this facility. We also recognized a $3.1 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities. During fiscal year 2011, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring reversal of $0.7 million relating to the Q2 2010 Plan due to lower than expected costs associated with the workforce reductions in Europe within both our Human Health and Environmental Health segments, and recorded a charge of $0.2 million to reduce the estimated sublease rental payments reasonably expected to be obtained for an excess facility in Europe within our Environmental Health segment.

As part of our Q2 2010 Plan, we reduced headcount by 115 employees. All employee notifications and actions related to the closure of excess facility space for the Q2 2010 Plan were completed by July 4, 2010. All employees have been notified of termination and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $0.1 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $1.7 million for the closure of excess facility space will be paid through fiscal year 2022, in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease.

The following table summarizes the components of our Q2 2010 Plan activity recognized by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Previous Restructuring and Integration Plans

The principal actions of the restructuring and integration plans from fiscal years 2001 through 2009 were workforce reductions related to the integration of our businesses in order to reduce costs and achieve operational efficiencies as well as workforce reductions in both our Human Health and Environmental Health segments by shifting resources into geographic regions and product lines that are more consistent with our growth strategy. During fiscal year 2011, we paid $1.1 million related to these plans, recorded a reversal of $1.2 million related to lower than expected costs associated with workforce reductions in Europe within both our Human Health and Environmental Health segments, and recorded a charge of $0.4 million to reduce the estimated sublease rental payments reasonably expected to be obtained for an excess facility in Europe within our Environmental Health segment. In addition, as part of the Caliper acquisition we acquired its remaining restructuring accrual for the closure of an excess facility with a fair value of $3.8 million at the acquisition date. As of January 1, 2012, we had approximately $8.3 million of remaining liabilities associated with these restructuring and integration plans, primarily for residual lease obligations related to closed facilities in both our Human Health and Environmental Health segments. Payments for these leases, the terms of which vary in length, will be made through fiscal year 2022.

33
Contract Termination Charges

We have terminated various contractual commitments in connection with various disposal activities for costs to terminate contracts before the end of the terms and costs that will continue to be incurred under various contracts for the remaining terms without economic benefit to us. We recorded a pre-tax charge of $2.0 million in fiscal year 2011, a pre-tax charge of $0.1 million in fiscal year 2010 and a pre-tax charge of $0.9 million in fiscal year 2009 for the termination of these contractual commitments. We were required to make payments for these obligations of $0.4 million during fiscal year 2011, $1.7 million during fiscal year 2010, and $1.1 million during fiscal year 2009. The remaining balance of these accruals as of January 1, 2012 was $2.1 million.

Impairment of Assets

2011 Compared to 2010. Impairment of assets was $3.0 million in fiscal year 2011 and zero in fiscal year 2010. The fiscal year 2011 impairment was a charge of $3.0 million for the impairment of intangible assets within our Human Health segment for the full impairment of license agreements, that we no longer intend to use, relating to an acquisition in fiscal year 2006. 

Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net

Interest and other expense (income), net, consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2011 Compared to 2010. Interest and other expense (income), net, for fiscal year 2011 was an expense of $26.8 million, as compared to income of $8.4 million for fiscal year 2010, a change of $35.2 million. The increase in interest and other expense (income), net, in fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to the pre-tax gain of $25.6 million recognized during fiscal year 2010 related to the required re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture and other related tangible assets. Interest expense increased by $8.9 million in fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010, primarily due to the increased debt and the higher interest rates on those debt balances with the issuance of the 2021 Notes. Interest income increased by $1.1 million in fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010, primarily due to higher cash balances. For fiscal year 2011, acquisition related financing costs related to certain acquisitions added expense of $3.1 million, and is included in interest expense. Other expenses for fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010 increased by $1.7 million, and consisted primarily of expenses related to foreign currency transactions and translation of non-functional currency assets and liabilities. A more complete discussion of our liquidity is set forth below under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

2010 Compared to 2009. Interest and other expense (income), net, for fiscal year 2010 was income of $8.4 million, as compared to an expense of $15.8 million for fiscal year 2009, a decrease of $24.2 million. The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net, in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to the pre-tax gain of $25.6 million recognized during fiscal year 2010 related to the required re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture. Interest expense decreased by $0.1 million and interest income decreased by $0.2 million in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009, primarily due to lower interest rates. Other expenses for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 increased by $1.3 million, and consisted primarily of expenses related to foreign currency transactions and translation of non-functional currency assets and liabilities.

Provision for Income Taxes

2011 Compared to 2010. The fiscal year 2011 provision for income taxes on continuing operations was $63.2 million, as compared to a provision of $27.0 million for fiscal year 2010. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was 98.2% for fiscal year 2011 as compared to 16.3% for fiscal year 2010. The higher effective tax rate in fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to (i) an additional provision of $79.7 million related to our planned $350.0 million repatriation of previously unremitted earnings, and (ii) the mix of profits from lower tax rate jurisdictions. 

34
2010 Compared to 2009. The fiscal year 2010 provision for income taxes on continuing operations was $27.0 million, as compared to a provision of $26.7 million for fiscal year 2009. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was 16.3% for fiscal year 2010 as compared to 26.7% for fiscal year 2009. The lower effective tax rate in fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to (i) the favorable impact related to the gain on the previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture, and (ii) the favorable settlement of several income tax audits worldwide during fiscal year 2010. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of these settlements.

Discontinued Operations

As part of our continuing efforts to focus on higher growth opportunities, we have discontinued certain businesses. We have accounted for these businesses as discontinued operations and, accordingly, have presented the results of operations and related cash flows as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of these businesses have been presented separately, and are reflected within the assets and liabilities from discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of January 1, 2012 and January 2, 2011.

We recorded the following pre-tax gains and losses, which have been reported as a gain (loss) on disposition of discontinued operations during the three fiscal years ended:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In November 2010, we sold our IDS business, which was included in our Environmental Health segment, for $510.3 million including an adjustment for net working capital. We expect the divestiture of our IDS business to reduce the complexity of our product offerings and organizational structure, and to provide capital to reinvest in other Human Health and Environmental Health end markets. The buyer acquired our IDS business through the purchase of all outstanding stock of certain of our subsidiaries located in Germany, Canada, China, Indonesia, the Philippines, the United Kingdom and the United States as well as the purchase of related assets and the assumption of liabilities held by us and certain of our subsidiaries located in Singapore and Germany. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $315.3 million, inclusive of the net working capital adjustment, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 as a result of the sale of our IDS business. During fiscal year 2011, we finalized the net working capital adjustment associated with the sale of this business and other potential contingencies, which resulted in the recognition of a pre-tax loss of $1.8 million. These gains and losses were recognized as gain (loss) on disposition of discontinued operations.

As part of our strategic business alignment into the Human Health and Environmental Health segments, completed at the beginning of fiscal year 2009, and our continuing efforts to focus on higher growth opportunities, in December 2008, our management approved a plan to divest our Photoflash business within our Environmental Health segment. In June 2010, we sold the Photoflash business for $13.5 million, including an adjustment for net working capital, plus potential additional contingent consideration. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $4.4 million, inclusive of the net working capital adjustment, in fiscal year 2010 as a result of the sale. This gain was recognized as a gain on disposition of discontinued operations.

During fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, we settled various matters related to the divestiture of other discontinued operations and recognized a pre-tax gain of $3.9 million in fiscal year 2011, a pre-tax loss of $1.8 million in fiscal year 2010 and a pre-tax loss of $3.0 million in fiscal year 2009. During fiscal year 2011, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $4.0 million for contingent consideration related to the sale of our semiconductor business in fiscal year 2006. During fiscal year 2009, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $1.4 million for a settlement with the landlord of a closed facility.

35
Summary pre-tax operating results of the discontinued operations for the periods prior to disposition were as follows for the fiscal years ended:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We recognized a tax benefit of $4.5 million on discontinued operations in fiscal year 2011, a tax provision of $96.6 million on discontinued operations in fiscal year 2010 and a tax provision of $3.3 million in fiscal year 2009 on discontinued operations. The recognition of $4.5 million income tax benefit in fiscal year 2011 is primarily the net result of a change in estimate related to the federal income tax liability associated with the repatriation of the unremitted earnings of the IDS and Photoflash businesses, as further described in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on Form 10-K, offset by the tax provision on the contingent consideration received in fiscal year 2011 related to the sale of our semiconductor business in fiscal year 2006. The recognition of $96.6 million income tax expense in fiscal year 2010 includes $16.0 million of income tax expense associated with unremitted earnings of directly-owned foreign subsidiaries that no longer qualified as indefinitely reinvested once the subsidiary was held for sale, and $65.8 million related to the federal income tax liability associated with the repatriation of the unremitted earnings of the IDS and Photoflash businesses, as further described in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Business Combinations

Acquisition of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. In November 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. Caliper is a provider of imaging and detection solutions for life sciences research, diagnostics and environmental markets. Caliper develops and sells integrated systems, consisting of instruments, software, reagents, laboratory automation tools, and assay development and discovery services, primarily to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and diagnostics companies, and government and other not-for-profit research institutions. We expect this acquisition to enhance our molecular imaging and detection technologies and to complement our offerings in life science, diagnostics, environmental and food markets. We paid the shareholders of Caliper $646.3 million in cash for the stock of Caliper. We financed the acquisition by issuing $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2021 in a registered public offering and received approximately $496.9 million of net proceeds from the issuance, with the remainder of the purchase price paid from available cash. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date. 

Acquisition of Dexela Limited. In June 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Dexela Limited. Dexela is a provider of flat panel complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (“CMOS”) x-ray detection technologies and services. We expect this acquisition to expand our current medical imaging portfolio in key areas including surgery, dental, cardiology and mammography, as well as non-destructive testing. With the addition of the CMOS technology to our imaging portfolio, customers will be able to choose between two complementary x-ray detector technologies to optimize their system performance and meet their specific application needs. We paid the shareholders of Dexela $26.1 million in cash for the stock of Dexela. We may pay additional contingent consideration of up to $12.2 million, with an estimated fair value of $4.6 million as of the closing date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of Labtronics, Inc. In May 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Labtronics, Inc. ("Labtronics"). Labtronics is a provider of procedures-based Electronic Laboratory Notebook (“ELN”) solutions for laboratories performing routine analysis in multiple industries. We expect this acquisition to extend our ELN and data integration software offerings into laboratories following strict routine procedures, late stage product or method development laboratories and environmental and food testing laboratories. Labtronics tools can be applied to procedure-based problems, including laboratory analysis, equipment calibration and validation, cleaning validation and other problems. We paid the shareholders of Labtronics $11.4 million in cash for the stock of Labtronics. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets 

36
represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of Geospiza, Inc. In May 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Geospiza, Inc. ("Geospiza"). Geospiza is a developer of software systems for the management of genetic analysis and laboratory workflows. Geospiza primarily services biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, universities, researchers, contract core and diagnostic laboratories involved in genetic testing and manufacturing bio-therapeutics by meeting their combined laboratory, data management and analytical needs. We expect this acquisition to enhance our software offerings, which will enable researchers to explore the genomic origins of disease effectively, and help address customers’ growing needs to manage knowledge and improve scientific productivity. We paid the shareholders of Geospiza $13.2 million in cash for the stock of Geospiza. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of CambridgeSoft Corporation. In April 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of CambridgeSoft Corporation. CambridgeSoft is a provider of discovery, collaboration and knowledge enterprise solutions, scientific databases and professional services. CambridgeSoft primarily services pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical industries with solutions that help customers create, analyze and communicate scientific data while improving the speed, quality, efficiency and predictability of research and development investments. We expect this acquisition to enhance our focus on knowledge management in laboratory settings by expanding our software offerings, enabling customers to share data used for scientific decisions. We paid the shareholders of CambridgeSoft $227.4 million in cash at the closing for the stock of CambridgeSoft. We have recorded a receivable of $4.2 million from the shareholders of CambridgeSoft as a reduction of purchase price for the settlement of contingencies. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of ID Biological Systems, Inc. In March 2011, we acquired specified assets and assumed specified liabilities of ID Biological Systems, Inc. ("IDB"). IDB is a manufacturer of filter paper-based sample collection devices for neonatal screening and prenatal diagnostics. We expect this acquisition to enhance our market position in the prenatal and neonatal markets. We paid $7.7 million in cash at the closing for this transaction. We may pay additional contingent consideration of up to $3.3 million, with an estimated fair value of $0.3 million as of the closing date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, all of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of ArtusLabs, Inc. In March 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of ArtusLabs, Inc. ("ArtusLabs"). ArtusLabs offers the Ensemble® scientific knowledge platform, to accelerate research and development in the pharmaceutical, chemical, petrochemical and related industries. Ensemble® integrates disparate data from customers’ ELNs and informatics systems and databases. We expect this acquisition to enhance our focus on knowledge management in laboratory settings by expanding our informatics offerings, enabling customers to rapidly access enterprise-wide data. We paid the shareholders of ArtusLabs $15.2 million in cash at the closing for the stock of ArtusLabs. We may pay additional contingent consideration of up to $15.0 million, with an estimated fair value of $7.5 million as of the closing date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of chemagen Biopolymer-Technologie AG. In February 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of chemagen Biopolymer-Technologie AG ("chemagen"). chemagen manufactures and sells nucleic acid sample preparation systems and reagents utilizing magnetic bead technology. We expect this acquisition to enhance our diagnostics business by expanding our product offerings to diagnostics, academic and industrial end markets. We paid the shareholders of chemagen $34.6 million in cash for the stock of chemagen. We may pay additional contingent consideration of up to $20.3 million, with an estimated fair value of $7.7 million as of the closing date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.

37
Acquisition of VisEn Medical Inc. In July 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of VisEn Medical Inc. (“VisEn”). VisEn is an in vivo molecular imaging technology company. We expect this acquisition to enhance our cellular imaging business by expanding our technologies and capabilities into preclinical research undertaken in academic institutes and pharmaceutical companies. We paid the shareholders of VisEn $23.0 million in cash for the stock of VisEn. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us as, well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of Signature Genomic Laboratories, LLC. In May 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of SGL Newco, Inc., the parent company of Signature Genomic Laboratories, LLC (“Signature Genomic”). Signature Genomic is a provider of diagnostic cytogenetic testing of chromosome abnormalities in individuals with unexplained physical and developmental disabilities. We expect this acquisition to expand our existing genetic testing business and expand our position in early detection of disease, specifically in the molecular diagnostics market. We paid the shareholders of Signature Genomic $90.0 million in cash. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.

Acquisition of Remaining Interest in the Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry Joint Venture. In May 2010, we acquired the remaining fifty percent equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture and other related tangible assets from DH Technologies Development Pte Ltd., a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation (“Danaher”). We expect this acquisition will help support the continued success of the premier ICPMS product line by allowing us to direct development with a dedicated and consistent approach. The fair value of the acquisition was $67.7 million, including cash consideration of $35.0 million, non-cash consideration of $2.6 million for certain non-exclusive rights to intangible assets owned by us, and $30.4 million representing the fair value of our fifty percent equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture held prior to the acquisition. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $25.6 million from the re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture. This pre-tax gain is reported in interest and other expense (income), net, for fiscal year 2010. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us, as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, and has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We have reported the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.

We do not consider the acquisitions completed during fiscal year 2011, with the exception of the Caliper acquisition, to be material to our consolidated results of operations; therefore, we are not presenting pro forma financial information of operations. The aggregate revenue for the acquisitions, with the exception of Caliper, completed during fiscal year 2011 for the period from their respective acquisition dates to January 1, 2012 was $32.4 million. We have also determined that the presentation of the results of operations for each of those acquisitions, from the date of acquisition, is impracticable due to the integration of the operations upon acquisition. Allocations of the purchase price for acquisitions are based on estimates of the fair value of the net assets acquired and are subject to adjustment upon finalization of the purchase price allocations. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgments as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair values for assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration, are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. Contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date, based on revenue thresholds or product development milestones achieved through given dates, with changes in the fair value after the acquisition date affecting earnings to the extent it is to be settled in cash. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these fair values, the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, or require acceleration of the amortization expense of definite-lived intangible assets. 

In connection with the purchase price and related allocations for acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of deferred revenue assumed with our acquisitions. The estimated fair value of deferred revenue is determined by the legal performance obligation at the date of acquisition, and is generally based on the nature of the activities to be performed and the related costs to be incurred after the acquisition date. The fair value of an assumed liability related to deferred revenue is estimated based on the current market cost of fulfilling the obligation, plus a normal profit margin thereon. The estimated costs to fulfill the deferred revenue are based on the historical direct costs related to providing the services. We do not include any costs associated with selling effort, research and development, or the related fulfillment margins on these costs. In most acquisitions, profit associated with selling effort is excluded because the acquired businesses would have concluded the selling effort on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date. The estimated research and development costs are not included in the fair value 

38
determination, as these costs are not deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of acquisition. The sum of the costs and operating income approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third-party to assume the obligation. As a result of purchase accounting, we recognized the deferred revenue related to the acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2011 at fair value and recorded a liability of $18.3 million, which represents a $64.4 million difference between the $82.7 million of deferred revenue that was recorded on the pre-acquisition balance sheets of the acquired businesses.

As of January 1, 2012, with the exception of the purchase price and related allocations for the Caliper acquisition, the purchase price and related allocations for acquisitions completed in fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were final. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price for the Caliper acquisition was based upon a preliminary valuation and our estimates and assumptions underlying the preliminary valuation are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition dates). The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized relate to the fair value of certain tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, assets and liabilities related to income taxes and related valuation allowances, and residual goodwill. We expect to continue to obtain information to assist in determining the fair values of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period. During the measurement period, we will adjust assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. Adjustments to the initial allocation of the purchase price during the measurement period require the revision of comparative prior period financial information when reissued in subsequent financial statements. The effect of measurement period adjustments to the allocation of the purchase price would be as if the adjustments had been completed on the acquisition date. The effects of measurement period adjustments may cause changes in depreciation, amortization, or other income or expense recognized in prior periods. All changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are included in current period earnings.

Contingencies, Including Tax Matters

We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. We accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. We have accrued $6.7 million as of January 1, 2012, which represents our management’s estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. This amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where we have been named a PRP, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. We expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. As assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. While it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded.

Enzo Biochem, Inc. and Enzo Life Sciences, Inc. (collectively, “Enzo”) filed a complaint dated October 23, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Civil Action No. 02-8448, against Amersham plc, Amersham BioSciences, PerkinElmer, Inc., PerkinElmer Life Sciences, Inc., Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, Sigma Chemical Company, Inc., Molecular Probes, Inc., and Orchid BioSciences, Inc. (the “New York Case”). The complaint alleges that we have breached our distributorship and settlement agreements with Enzo, infringed Enzo’s patents, engaged in unfair competition and fraud, and committed torts against Enzo by, among other things, engaging in commercial development and exploitation of Enzo’s patented products and technology, separately and together with the other defendants. Enzo seeks injunctive and monetary relief. In 2003, the court severed the lawsuit and ordered Enzo to serve individual complaints against the five defendants. We subsequently filed an answer and a counterclaim alleging that Enzo’s patents are invalid. In July 2006, the court issued a decision regarding the construction of the claims in Enzo’s patents that effectively limited the coverage of certain of those claims and, we believe, excludes certain of our products from the coverage of Enzo’s patents. Summary judgment motions were filed by the defendants in January 2007, and a hearing with oral argument on those motions took place in July 2007. In January 2009, the case was assigned to a new district court judge and in March 2009, the new judge denied the pending summary judgment motions without prejudice and ordered a stay of the case until the federal appellate court decides Enzo’s appeal of the judgment of the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut in Enzo Biochem vs. Applera Corp. and Tropix, Inc. (the “Connecticut Case”), which involves a number of the same patents and which could materially affect the scope of Enzo’s case against us. On March 26, 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed-in-part and reversed-in-part the judgment in the Connecticut Case. The New York Case against us and other 

39
defendants remains stayed except that the district court has permitted us and the other defendants to jointly file a motion for summary judgment on certain patent and other issues common to all of the defendants.

We believe we have meritorious defenses to the matter described above, and we are contesting the action vigorously. While this matter is subject to uncertainty, in the opinion of our management, based on its review of the information available at this time, the resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

We re-measured several of our uncertain tax positions related to fiscal years 2004 through 2010 during fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009 based on new information arising from events during the year that affected positions for those years. We also settled several income tax audits worldwide. The re-measurements and closure of audits included uncertain tax positions in Italy, Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, Australia, the Philippines, and the federal and certain state governments within the United States. The net effect of these re-measurements and closure of audits, statute of limitations lapses, provision to return adjustments, interest expense accruals, as well as other discrete items, resulted in the recognition of $9.1 million of income tax benefits in continuing operations during fiscal year 2011, $11.9 million of income tax benefits in continuing operations during fiscal year 2010 and $1.6 million of income tax benefits in continuing operations during fiscal year 2009. Tax years ranging from 2001 through 2011 remain open to examination by various tax jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations, such as Singapore, Canada, Finland, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States. The tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction. We regularly review our tax positions in each significant taxing jurisdiction in the process of evaluating our unrecognized tax benefits. We make adjustments to our unrecognized tax benefits when: (i) facts and circumstances regarding a tax position change, causing a change in management’s judgment regarding that tax position; (ii) a tax position is effectively settled with a tax authority; and/or (iii) the statute of limitations expires regarding a tax position.

We are also subject to various other claims, legal proceedings and investigations covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business activities. Although we have established accruals for potential losses that we believe are probable and reasonably estimable, in the opinion of our management, based on its review of the information available at this time, the total cost of resolving these other contingencies at January 1, 2012 should not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. However, each of these matters is subject to uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to us.

Reporting Segment Results of Continuing Operations

Human Health

2011 Compared to 2010. Revenue for fiscal year 2011 were $887.2 million, as compared to $796.3 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $90.9 million, or 11%, which includes an approximate 6% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and an approximate 3% increase in revenue attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected revenue by product type for fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in revenue in our Human Health segment was primarily a result of an increase in diagnostics market revenue of $52.5 million and an increase in research market revenue of $38.4 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $3.3 million of revenue in our Human Health segment for fiscal year 2011 and $0.7 million for fiscal year 2010 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods. This increase in our Human Health segment revenue during fiscal year 2011 was due primarily to increased demand from the adoption of our neonatal and infectious disease screening offerings in the diagnostics market, increased growth for pre-clinical instruments and reagents in the research market, and continued growth from non-medical applications of our imaging technology in our medical imaging business. These increases were partially offset by the impact of lower birth rates in the United States and tight inventory management in state and national labs for neonatal screening in the diagnostics market, as well as reduced revenue to pharmaceutical companies resulting from continued customer consolidations in the pharmaceutical market and reduced demand for our legacy radioisotope portfolio in the research market.

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 was $99.3 million, as compared to $97.9 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $1.5 million, or 1%. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $53.9 million and $46.7 million for fiscal year 2011 and fiscal year 2010, respectively. Restructuring and contract termination charges were $6.2 million for fiscal year 2011 as a result of our Q2 2011 and Q4 2011 Plans, as compared to $10.4 million for fiscal year 2010 as a result of our Q2 2010 and Q4 2010 Plans. The impairment of intangible assets was a charge of $3.0 million for fiscal year 2011 for the full impairment of license agreements, that we no longer intend to use, relating to an acquisition in fiscal year 2006. The gain on the sale of a facility in Boston, Massachusetts that was damaged in a fire in March 2005 was $3.4 million for fiscal year 2010. Acquisition related costs for integration, contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $12.4 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to an expense of $1.3 million for fiscal year 2010. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions was $4.1 million 

40
for fiscal year 2011. In addition to the above, increased sales volume and cost containment and productivity initiatives increased operating income for fiscal year 2011, which was partially offset by changes in product mix with growth in sales of lower gross margin product offerings, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, and costs related to acquisitions and growth investments in research and development.

2010 Compared to 2009. Revenue for fiscal year 2010 were $796.3 million, as compared to $731.6 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $64.7 million, or 9%, which includes an approximate 3% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and no net impact from changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected revenue by product type for fiscal year 2010, as compared to fiscal year 2009, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in revenue in our Human Health segment was primarily a result of an increase in diagnostics market revenue of $54.5 million and an increase in research market revenue of $10.2 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $0.7 million of revenue in our Human Health segment for both fiscal years 2010 and 2009 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods. This increase in our Human Health segment revenue during fiscal year 2010 was due primarily to the increased demand for our medical imaging products in the diagnostics market, as well as increased growth in the academic sector for both instruments and reagents in the research market. The demand for our medical imaging products resulted from improved market conditions that eased the constraints on medical providers’ capital budgets allowing us to increase our customer base, including expanding into non-medical applications. These increases were partially offset by tight inventory management in state and national labs for neonatal screening in the diagnostics market, as well as customer consolidations in the pharmaceutical market and by the continued constrained capital spending within our pharmaceutical customers in the research market.

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2010 was $97.9 million, as compared to $80.2 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $17.7 million, or 22%. Amortization of intangible assets was $46.7 million and $41.3 million for fiscal year 2010 and fiscal year 2009, respectively. Restructuring and contract termination charges were $10.4 million for fiscal year 2010 as a result of our Q2 2010 and Q4 2010 Plans, as compared to $9.2 million for fiscal year 2009 as a result of our Q1 2009 and Q3 2009 Plans. The gain on the sale of a facility in Boston, Massachusetts that was damaged in a fire in March 2005 was $3.4 million for fiscal year 2010. Acquisition related costs for contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $1.3 million for each of the fiscal years 2010 and 2009. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions was $1.1 million for fiscal year 2009. In addition to the above, increased sales volume and cost containment initiatives increased operating income for fiscal year 2010, which was partially offset by changes in product mix with growth in sales in fiscal year 2010 primarily of lower gross margin product offerings, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, and foreign exchange.

Environmental Health

2011 Compared to 2010. Revenue for fiscal year 2011 were $1,034.1 million, as compared to $908.0 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $126.1 million, or 14%, which includes an approximate 3% increase in revenue attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates and an approximate 2% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected revenue by product type for fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in revenue in our Environmental Health segment was primarily a result of increases in environmental and industrial markets revenue of $75.9 million, and an increase in laboratory services market revenue of $50.1 million. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $27.5 million of revenue primarily related to our informatics business in our Environmental Health segment for fiscal year 2011 that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during that period. This increase in our Environmental Health segment revenue during the fiscal year 2011 was due primarily to growth in our environmental, food and consumer safety and testing products, as well as growth in our OneSource® multivendor service offering as our comprehensive services continue to grow with our key customers. We also experienced continued growth in industrial markets with the reduction of constraints on capital purchases primarily related to materials analysis, chemical processing and semi-conductor applications supported by our molecular spectroscopy and chromatography platforms.

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 was $99.3 million, as compared to $95.1 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $4.3 million, or 4%. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $26.1 million and $14.0 million for fiscal year 2011 and fiscal year 2010, respectively. Restructuring and contract termination charges were $7.3 million for fiscal year 2011 as a result of our Q2 2011 and Q4 2011 Plans, as compared to $8.5 million for fiscal year 2010 as a result of our Q2 2010 and Q4 2010 Plans. Acquisition related costs for contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added income of $1.3 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to an expense of $1.5 million for fiscal year 2010. In addition to the above, increased sales volume and cost containment and productivity initiatives increased 

41
operating income for fiscal year 2011, which was partially offset by incremental costs primarily related to our informatics acquisitions, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, and increased freight costs.

2010 Compared to 2009. Revenue for fiscal year 2010 were $908.0 million, as compared to $819.1 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $88.9 million, or 11%, which includes no net impact in revenue attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates or acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected revenue by product type for fiscal year 2010, as compared to fiscal year 2009, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in revenue in our Environmental Health segment was primarily a result of increases in environmental and industrial markets revenue of $47.5 million, and an increase in laboratory services market revenue of $41.4 million. This increase in our Environmental Health segment revenue during fiscal year 2010 was due primarily to the increase in our OneSource® multivendor service offering, which we expanded in markets beyond our traditional customer base and services, as well as growth in our environmental, food and consumer safety and testing products. We also experienced continued growth in traditional chemical markets with the reduction of constraints on capital purchases to rebuild capacity as a result of the cyclical recovery and increased demand after the extended period of delayed capital investment.

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2010 was $95.1 million, as compared to $76.4 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $18.7 million, or 25%. Amortization of intangible assets was $14.0 million and $12.8 million for fiscal year 2010 and fiscal year 2009, respectively. Restructuring and contract termination charges were $8.5 million for fiscal year 2010 as a result of our Q2 2010 and Q4 2010 Plans, as compared to $8.8 million for fiscal year 2009 as a result of our Q1 2009 and Q3 2009 Plans. Acquisition related costs for contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions added an expense of $1.5 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to an expense of $0.3 million for fiscal year 2009. In addition to the above, increased sales volume and cost containment initiatives increased operating income for fiscal year 2010, which was partially offset by changes in product mix with growth in sales in fiscal year 2010 primarily of lower gross margin product offerings, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, and foreign exchange.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We require cash to pay our operating expenses, make capital expenditures, make strategic acquisitions, service our debt and other long-term liabilities, repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock. Our principal sources of funds are from our operations and the capital markets, particularly the debt markets. We anticipate that our internal operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, smaller acquisitions, interest payments on our debt and dividends on our common stock. However, we expect to use external sources to satisfy the balance of our debt when due, any larger acquisitions and other long-term liabilities.

Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally generated funds include:

•changes in sales due to weakness in markets in which we sell our products and services, and

•changes in our working capital requirements.

Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include:

•financial covenants contained in the financial instruments controlling our borrowings that limit our total borrowing capacity,

•increases in interest rates applicable to our outstanding variable rate debt,

•a ratings downgrade that could limit the amount we can borrow under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our overall access to the corporate debt market,

•increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, that affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis,

•a decrease in the market price for our common stock, and

•volatility in the public debt and equity markets.

Cash Flows

Fiscal Year 2011

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $234.0 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to net cash provided by continuing operations of $167.2 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $66.8 million. The cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2011 was principally a result of income from continuing operations of $1.2 

42
million, depreciation and amortization of $110.9 million, stock based compensation expense of $15.5 million, restructuring and contract termination charges, net, of $13.5 million, and the expense related to our postretirement benefit plans, including the mark-to-market charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, of $75.0 million. These amounts were partially offset by a net increase in working capital of $24.6 million. Contributing to the net increase in working capital for fiscal year 2011, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, was an increase in accounts receivable of $20.6 million, an increase in inventory of $2.2 million, and a decrease in accounts payable of $1.8 million. The increase in accounts receivable was a result of higher sales volume during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. The increase in inventory overall was primarily a result of expanding the amount of inventory held at sales locations within our Environmental Health and Human Health segments to improve responsiveness to customer requirements and for the introduction of new products. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily a result of the timing of disbursements during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. Changes in accrued expenses, other assets and liabilities and other items, net, increased cash provided by operating activities by $42.6 million for fiscal year 2011, and primarily related to the timing of payments for tax, restructuring, and salary and benefits.

Investing Activities. Net cash used in the investing activities of our continuing operations was $942.1 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to net cash used in the investing activities of our continuing operations of $174.1 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $768.0 million. For fiscal year 2011, we used $914.0 million of net cash for acquisitions, core technology purchases, acquired licenses and other costs in connection with these and other transactions. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2011 were $30.6 million, primarily for capital equipment purchases. These cash outflows were partially offset by $0.5 million received during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 from the disposition of property, plant and equipment and $0.8 million from the settlement of life insurance policies. Restricted cash balances decreased for fiscal year 2011 by $1.3 million. 

Financing Activities. Net cash provided by the financing activities of our continuing operations was $399.1 million for fiscal year 2011, as compared to net cash used in the financing activities of our continuing operations of $215.5 million for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $614.6 million. For fiscal year 2011, we repurchased 4.0 million shares of our common stock, including 84,243 shares of our common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $110.0 million, including commissions. This compares to repurchases of 3.0 million shares of our common stock, including 57,551 shares of our common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $72.8 million, including commissions, for fiscal year 2010. This use of cash was offset by proceeds from common stock option exercises of $33.1 million, including $9.3 million for the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2011. This compares to the proceeds from common stock option exercises of $31.4 million, including $2.4 million for the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2010. During fiscal year 2011, debt borrowings from our senior unsecured revolving credit facility totaled $787.0 million and net proceeds of $496.9 million from the issuance of our ten-year senior unsecured notes at a rate of 5%, which was partially offset by debt reductions of $763.0 million. This compares to debt borrowings from our senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $368.0 million which was offset by debt reductions of $508.8 million during fiscal year 2010. We paid $31.8 million and $33.0 million in dividends during fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, we paid $10.5 million for debt issuance costs and we settled $0.1 million in contingent consideration recorded at the acquisition date fair value for acquisitions completed subsequent to fiscal year 2008 during both fiscal years 2011 and 2010.

Fiscal Year 2010

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $167.2 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to net cash provided by continuing operations of $127.8 million for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $39.4 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2010 was a result of income from continuing operations of $138.9 million, depreciation and amortization of $89.2 million, stock based compensation expense of $12.4 million, restructuring and contract termination charges, net of $19.0 million and the expense related to our postretirement benefit plans, including the mark-to-market charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, of $3.8 million. These amounts were partially offset by pre-tax gains of $28.9 million related to the required re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest in the ICPMS Joint Venture and asset dispositions, and a net increase in working capital of $32.8 million. Contributing to the net increase in working capital for fiscal year 2010, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, was an increase in accounts receivable of $38.1 million and an increase in inventory of $22.5 million, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable of $27.8 million. The increase in accounts receivable was a result of higher sales volume during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. The increase in inventory overall was primarily a result of new products within our Environmental Health and Human Health segments to improve responsiveness to customer requirements. The increase in accounts payable was primarily a result of the timing of disbursements during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. Changes in accrued expenses, other assets and liabilities and other items, net, decreased cash provided by operating activities by $34.3 million for fiscal year 2010, and primarily related to the timing of payments for tax, restructuring, and salary and benefits, and included the voluntarily contribution made during the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 of $30.0 million to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States for the 2009 plan year.

43
Investing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations investing activities was $174.1 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $126.0 million of net cash used in continuing operations investing activities for fiscal year 2009, an increase of $48.1 million. For fiscal year 2010, we used $145.6 million of net cash for acquisitions and core technology purchases and $4.8 million for earn-out payments, acquired licenses and other costs in connection with these and other transactions. In addition, as part of the ICPMS Joint Venture, we gave Danaher non-cash consideration of $2.6 million for certain non-exclusive rights to intangible assets we own. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2010 were $33.6 million, primarily for capital equipment purchases. Restricted cash balances increased for fiscal year 2010 by $1.1 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by $11.0 million received during the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 from the sale of a facility in Boston, Massachusetts that was damaged in a fire in March 2005.

Financing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations financing activities was $215.5 million for fiscal year 2010, as compared to $4.0 million of net cash provided by continuing operations financing activities for fiscal year 2009, a decrease of $219.5 million. For fiscal year 2010, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of our common stock, including 57,551 shares of our common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $72.8 million, including commissions. This compares to repurchases of approximately 1.0 million shares of our common stock, including 28,890 shares of our common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for fiscal year 2009, for a total cost of $14.6 million, including commissions. This use of cash was offset by proceeds from common stock option exercises of $31.4 million, including the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2010. This compares to the proceeds from common stock option exercises of $6.5 million, including the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2009. During fiscal year 2010, debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility totaled $368.0 million, which was offset by debt reductions of $508.8 million. This compares to debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $406.5 million, which was offset by debt reductions of $361.5 million during fiscal year 2009. We paid $33.0 million and $32.7 million in dividends during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we settled $0.1 million in contingent consideration recorded at the acquisition date for acquisitions completed subsequent to fiscal year 2008 during fiscal year 2010.

Current Borrowing Arrangements

Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility. On December 16, 2011, we entered into an amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility. The agreement for the facility provides for $700.0 million of revolving loans and has an initial maturity of December 16, 2016, and amends and restates in its entirety the senior credit agreement dated as of August 13, 2007. As of January 1, 2012, undrawn letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $13.0 million are treated as issued and outstanding under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility. We use the senior unsecured revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes, which may include working capital, refinancing existing indebtedness, capital expenditures, share repurchases, acquisitions and strategic alliances. The interest rates under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility are based on the Eurocurrency rate at the time of borrowing plus a margin, or the base rate from time to time. The base rate is the higher of (i) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America, N.A. as its "prime rate," (ii) the Federal Funds rate plus 50 basis points or (iii) one-month Libor plus 1.00%. The Eurocurrency margin as of January 1, 2012 was 130 basis points. The weighted average Eurocurrency interest rate as of January 1, 2012 was 0.28%, resulting in a weighted average effective Eurocurrency rate, including the margin, of 1.58%. We had $298.0 million of borrowings in U.S. Dollars outstanding under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility as of January 1, 2012, with interest based on the above described Eurocurrency rate. The credit agreement for the facility contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants and events of default customary for financings of this type and those contained in our previous senior revolving credit agreement. Our amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility includes two financial covenants of debt-to-capital ratios and a contingent multiple of total debt to earnings ratio, applicable if our credit rating is down-graded below investment grade. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of January 1, 2012. 

6% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2015. On May 30, 2008, we issued $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2015 Notes in a private placement and received $150.0 million of proceeds from the issuance. The 2015 Notes mature in May 2015 and bear interest at an annual rate of 6%. Interest on the 2015 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 30th and November 30th each year. We may redeem some or all of the 2015 Notes at any time, at our option, at a make-whole redemption price plus accrued and unpaid interest. The indenture governing the 2015 Notes includes financial covenants of debt-to-capital ratios and a contingent multiple of total debt to earnings ratio, applicable if our credit rating is down-graded below investment grade. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of January 1, 2012. 

5% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2021. On October 25, 2011, we issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Notes in a registered public offering and received approximately $496.9 million of net proceeds from the issuance. The 2021 Notes were issued at 99.372% of the principal amount, which resulted in a discount of $3.1 million. The 2021 Notes mature in November 2021 and bear interest at an annual rate of 5%. Interest on the 2021 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 15th and November 15th each year. Prior to August 15, 2021 (three months prior to their maturity date), we may redeem 

44
the 2021 Notes in whole or in part, at our option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes to be redeemed, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect to the 2021 Notes being redeemed, discounted on a semi-annual basis, at the Treasury Rate plus 45 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest. At any time on or after August 15, 2021 (three months prior to their maturity date), we may redeem the 2021 Notes, at our option, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. Upon a change of control (as defined in the indenture governing the 2021 Notes ) and a contemporaneous downgrade of the 2021 Notes below investment grade, each holder of 2021 Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase such holder's 2021 Notes for 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of January 1, 2012. 

Dividends

Our Board declared regular quarterly cash dividends of $0.07 per share in each quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, resulting in an annual dividend rate of $0.28 per share. On January 27, 2012, we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share that is payable in May 2012. In the future, our Board may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at January 1, 2012 for continuing and discontinued operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________________

(1)The credit facility borrowings carry variable interest rates; the amounts included in this table do not contemplate interest obligations.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)The amount includes accrued interest, net of tax benefits, and penalties. We have excluded $45.1 million, including accrued interest, net of tax benefits, and penalties, from the amount related to our uncertain tax positions as we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of related future payments.

* Purchase commitments are minimal and have been excluded from this table.

Capital Expenditures

During fiscal year 2012, we expect to invest an amount for capital expenditures similar to that in fiscal year 2011, primarily to introduce new products, to improve our operating processes, to shift the production capacity to lower cost locations, and to develop information technology. We expect to use our available cash and internally generated funds to fund these expenditures.

Other Potential Liquidity Considerations

At January 1, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $142.3 million and a senior unsecured revolving credit facility with $389.0 million available for additional borrowing. 

Most of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. As a result of the Caliper acquisition, we concluded that certain foreign operations did not require the same level of capital as previously expected, and therefore we plan to repatriate approximately $350.0 million of previously unremitted earnings and have provided for the estimated taxes on the repatriation of those earnings. As a result of the planned repatriation, we recorded an increase to our tax provision of $79.7 million in continuing operations. We expect to utilize tax attributes, primarily those acquired in the Caliper acquisition, to minimize the cash taxes paid on the repatriation. With the exception of $350.0 million we intend to repatriate over the next two 

45
to three years related to the acquisition of Caliper, we expect accumulated non-U.S. cash balances will remain outside of the U.S. and that we will meet U.S. liquidity needs through future cash flows, use of U.S. cash balances, external borrowings, or some combination of these sources.

On October 23, 2008, we announced that our Board authorized us to repurchase up to 10.0 million shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”). On August 31, 2010, we announced that our Board had authorized us to repurchase an additional 5.0 million shares of common stock under the Repurchase Program. The Repurchase Program will expire on October 22, 2012 unless terminated earlier by our Board, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2011, we repurchased approximately 4.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $107.8 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During fiscal year 2010, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $71.5 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During fiscal year 2009, we repurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $14.2 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. As of January 1, 2012, approximately 6.0 million shares of common stock remained available for repurchase from the 15.0 million shares authorized by our Board under the Repurchase Program. 

Our Board has authorized us to repurchase shares of common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans. During fiscal year 2011, we repurchased 84,243 shares of common stock for this purpose at an aggregate cost of $2.2 million. During fiscal year 2010, we repurchased 57,551 shares of common stock for this purpose at an aggregate cost of $1.3 million. During fiscal year 2009, we repurchased 28,890 shares of common stock for this purpose at an aggregate cost of $0.4 million. 

The repurchased shares have been reflected as additional authorized but unissued shares, with the payments reflected in common stock and capital in excess of par value. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with corporate programs. If we continue to repurchase shares, the repurchase program will be funded using our existing financial resources, including cash and cash equivalents, and our existing amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility.

Distressed global financial markets could adversely impact general economic conditions by reducing liquidity and credit availability, creating increased volatility in security prices, widening credit spreads and decreasing valuations of certain investments. The widening of credit spreads may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses and may affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or hold. Increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit at rates we consider to be reasonable, could affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In difficult global financial markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our business activities.

We may be required to fund our U.S. pension plans with contributions of up to $16.0 million and our non-U.S. pension plans with contributions of up to $11.1 million by the end of fiscal year 2012, and we could potentially have to make additional funding payments in future periods for all pension plans. During fiscal year 2011, we made contributions of $11.5 million to our defined benefit pension plans outside the United States. During fiscal year 2010, we made a voluntary contribution of $30.0 million for the 2009 plan year to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States. During fiscal year 2010, we also made contributions of $15.2 million to our defined benefit pension plans outside the United States. We expect to use existing cash and external sources to satisfy future contributions to our pension plans.

Effects of Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and are adopted by us as of the specified effective dates. Such recently issued and adopted pronouncements did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows or do not apply to our operations.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, warranty costs, bad debts, inventories, accounting for business combinations and dispositions, long-lived assets, income taxes, restructuring, pensions and other postretirement benefits, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may 

46
differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue recognition. We record product revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, we recognize product revenue upon delivery, and we delay recognition of installation revenue until the installation is complete. For revenue that includes customer-specified acceptance criteria, we recognize revenue only after the acceptance criteria have been met. We defer revenue from services and recognize it over the contractual period, or as we render services. 

In limited circumstances, we have arrangements that include multiple elements that are delivered at different points of time, such as revenue from products and services with a remaining service or storage component, such as cord blood processing and storage. For these arrangements, the revenue is allocated to each of the deliverables based upon their relative selling prices as determined by a selling-price hierarchy. A deliverable in an arrangement qualifies as a separate unit of accounting if the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis. A delivered item that does not qualify as a separate unit of accounting is combined with the other undelivered items in the arrangement and revenue is recognized for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The selling price used for each deliverable is based upon vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") if such evidence is available, third-party evidence ("TPE") if VSOE is not available, and management's best estimate of selling price ("BESP") if neither VSOE nor TPE are available. TPE is the price of our or any competitor's largely interchangeable products or services in stand-alone sales to similarly-situated customers. BESP is the price at which we would sell the deliverable if it were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis, considering market conditions and entity-specific factors.

Revenue from software licenses and services is 2% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2011, 1% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2010, and 2% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2009. We sell our software licenses with maintenance services and, in some cases, also with consulting services. For the undelivered elements, we determine VSOE of fair value to be the price charged when the undelivered element is sold separately. We determine VSOE for maintenance sold in connection with a software license based on the amount that will be separately charged for the maintenance renewal period. We determine VSOE for consulting services by reference to the amount charged for similar engagements when a software license sale is not involved.

We recognize revenue from software licenses sold together with maintenance and/or consulting services upon shipment using the residual method, provided that the above criteria have been met. If VSOE of fair value for the undelivered elements cannot be established, we defer all revenue from the arrangement until the earlier of the point at which such sufficient VSOE does exist or all elements of the arrangement have been delivered, or if the only undelivered element is maintenance, then we recognize the entire fee ratably over the maintenance period. 

The majority of our sales relate to specific manufactured products or units rather than long-term customized projects, therefore we generally do not experience significant changes in original estimates. Further, we have not experienced any significant refunds or promotional allowances that require significant estimation.

Warranty costs. We provide for estimated warranty costs for products at the time of their sale. Warranty liabilities are based on estimated future repair costs using historical labor and material incurred in the warranty period.

Allowances for doubtful accounts. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We generally compute our allowance for doubtful accounts by (i) applying specific percentage reserves on accounts that are past due and deemed uncollectible; and (ii) specifically reserving for customers known to be in financial difficulty. Therefore, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate beyond our estimates, we may have to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. This would reduce our earnings.

Inventory valuation. We initially value inventory at actual cost to purchase and/or manufacture. We periodically review these values to ascertain that market value of the inventory continues to exceed its recorded cost. Generally, reductions in value of inventory below cost are caused by our maintenance of stocks of products in excess of demand, or technological obsolescence of the inventory. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and, when necessary, record provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based on either our estimated forecast of product demand and production requirements, or historical trailing usage of the product. If our sales do not materialize as planned or at historic levels, we may have to increase our reserve for excess and obsolete inventory. This would reduce our earnings. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold, resulting in lower costs of sales and higher income from 

47
operations than expected in that period.

Business combinations. Business combinations are accounted for at fair value. Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses; previously held equity interests are valued at fair value upon the acquisition of a controlling interest; in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) is recorded at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible asset at the acquisition date; restructuring costs associated with a business combination are expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date affect income tax expense. All changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are included in current period earnings. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgment as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair value for assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration, are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, or require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets.

Value of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles. We carry a variety of long-lived assets on our consolidated balance sheets including property and equipment, investments, identifiable intangible assets, and goodwill. We periodically review the carrying value of all of these assets based, in part, upon current estimated market values and our projections of anticipated future cash flows. We undertake this review (i) on an annual basis for assets such as goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets and (ii) on a periodic basis for other long-lived assets when facts and circumstances suggest that cash flows related to those assets may be diminished. Any impairment charge that we record reduces our earnings. The goodwill impairment test consists of a two-step process. The first step is the comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if the carrying value exceeds the fair value. The second step measures the amount of an impairment loss, and is only performed if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. We perform the annual impairment assessment on the later of January 1 or the first day of each fiscal year. This same impairment test will be performed at other times during the course of the year should an event occur which suggests that the recoverability of goodwill should be reconsidered. Non-amortizing intangibles are also subject to an annual impairment test. The impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess is recognized. In addition, we currently evaluate the remaining useful life of our non-amortizing intangible assets at least annually to determine whether events or circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. If events or circumstances indicate that the useful lives of non-amortizing intangible assets are no longer indefinite, the assets will be tested for impairment. These intangible assets will then be amortized prospectively over their estimated remaining useful life and accounted for in the same manner as other intangible assets that are subject to amortization. Through fiscal year 2011, we assessed the annual impairment testing for our reporting units: analytical sciences and laboratory services, diagnostics, life sciences technology and medical imaging. We completed the annual impairment test using a measurement date of January 3, 2011 and January 4, 2010, and concluded based on the first step of the process that there was no goodwill impairment. While we believe that our estimates of current value are reasonable, different assumptions regarding items such as future cash flows and the volatility inherent in markets which we serve could affect our evaluations and result in impairment charges against the carrying value of those assets.

Employee compensation and benefits. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 we changed our method of recognizing defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs. Historically we recognized the actuarial gains and losses as a component of stockholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheets. These gains and losses were amortized into results of operations over the average future service period of the active employees, to the extent such gains and losses were outside of a corridor. Additionally, for our principal U.S. defined benefit pension plan, we used a calculated value of plan assets reflecting changes in the fair value of plan assets over a five year period. Under our new method of accounting, we immediately recognize actuarial gains and losses in operating results in the year in which the gains and losses occur. This change is intended to recognize the effects of current economic and interest rate trends on plan investments and assumptions as they occur. Actuarial gains and losses are measured annually as of fiscal year end and accordingly will be recorded in the fourth quarter, unless we are required to perform an interim remeasurement. Additionally, we now use actual fair value of plan assets for the principal U.S. defined benefit pension plan that had not previously utilized this method. Accordingly, the financial data for all periods presented has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the effect of these accounting changes. We believe that the new policies are preferable as they eliminate the delay in the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, and changes to the fair value of plan assets.

48
Retirement and postretirement benefit plans are a significant cost of doing business, and represent obligations that will be ultimately settled far in the future, and therefore are subject to estimation. Retirement and postretirement benefit plan expenses are allocated to cost of revenue, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses, in our consolidated statements of operations. We incurred expenses of $75.0 million in fiscal year 2011, $3.8 million in fiscal year 2010 and $21.3 million in fiscal year 2009 for our retirement and postretirement benefit plans, which includes the charge for the mark-to-market adjustment for the postretirement benefit plans, which generally is recorded in the fourth quarter. The expense related to mark-to-market and curtailments on postretirement benefit plans was $67.9 million in fiscal year 2011, $0.2 million in fiscal year 2010 and $6.4 million in fiscal year 2009. We expect expenses of approximately $6.9 million in fiscal year 2012 for our retirement and postretirement benefit plans, excluding the charge for or benefit from the mark-to-market adjustment. It is difficult to reliably forecast or predict whether there will be a mark-to-market adjustment in fiscal year 2012, and if one is required, the amount of such an adjustment. Mark-to-market adjustments are primarily driven by events and circumstances beyond our control, including changes in interest rates and the performance of the financial markets. To the extent the discount rates decrease or the value of our pension and postretirement investments decrease, mark-to market charges to operations will be recorded in fiscal year 2012. Conversely, to the extent the discount rates increase or the value of our pension and postretirement investments increase, mark-to market income will be recorded in fiscal year 2012. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employee’s approximate service period based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made. We are required to make assumptions regarding such variables as the expected long-term rate of return on assets and the discount rate applied, to determine service cost and interest cost, in order to arrive at pension income or expense for the year.

As of January 1, 2012, we estimated the expected long-term rate of return on assets in our pension portfolios in the United States was 7.75% and was 5.40% for all plans outside the United States. In addition, as of January 1, 2012 we estimated the discount rate for our pension portfolios in the United States was 4.09% and was 4.91% for all plans outside the United States. We have analyzed the rates of return on assets used and determined that these rates are reasonable based on the plans’ historical performance relative to the overall markets in the countries where we invest the assets, as well as our current expectations for long-term rates of returns for our pension and other postretirement benefit assets. Our management will continue to assess the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumptions for each plan based on relevant market conditions, and will make adjustments to the assumptions as appropriate. Discount rate assumptions have been, and continue to be, based on the prevailing market long-term interest rates at the measurement date. If any of our assumptions were to change as of January 1, 2012, our pension plan expenses would also change. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have reduced the volatility in our healthcare costs provided to our retirees by adopting a defined dollar plan feature in fiscal year 2001. Under the defined dollar plan feature, our total annual liability for healthcare costs to any one retiree is limited to a fixed dollar amount, regardless of the nature or cost of the healthcare needs of that retiree. Our maximum future liability, therefore, cannot be increased by future changes in the cost of healthcare.

Restructuring activities. Our consolidated financial statements detail specific charges relating to restructuring activities as well as the actual spending that has occurred against the resulting accruals. Our pre-tax restructuring charges are estimates based on our preliminary assessments of (i) severance benefits to be granted to employees, based on known benefit formulas and identified job grades, (ii) costs to abandon certain facilities based on known lease costs of sub-rental income and (iii) asset impairments as discussed above under “Value of long-lived assets, including intangibles.” Because these accruals are estimates, they are subject to change as a result of deviations from initial restructuring plans or subsequent information that may come to our attention. For example, actual severance costs may be less than anticipated if employees voluntarily leave prior to the time at which they would be entitled to severance, or if anticipated legal hurdles in foreign jurisdictions prove to be less onerous 

49
than expected. In addition, unanticipated successes or difficulties in terminating leases and other contractual obligations may lead to changes in estimates. When such changes in estimates occur, they are reflected in our consolidated financial statements on our consolidated statements of operations line entitled “restructuring and contract termination charges, net.”

Gains or losses on dispositions. When we record the disposition of an asset or discontinuance of an operation, we make an estimate relative to the amount we expect to realize on the sale or disposition. This estimate is based on a variety of factors, including current interest in the market, alternative markets for the assets, and other relevant factors. If anticipated proceeds are less than the current carrying amount of the asset or operation, we record a loss. If anticipated proceeds are greater than the current carrying amount of the asset or operation, we recognize a gain net of expected contingencies when the transaction has been consummated. Accordingly, we may realize amounts different than were first estimated. During the fiscal year ended January 1, 2012, we recorded $0.1 million in pre-tax losses from disposition of fixed assets and $2.0 million in pre-tax gains from the disposition of discontinued operations. Any such changes decrease or increase current earnings.

Income taxes. Our business operations are global in nature, and we are subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Tax laws and tax rates vary substantially in these jurisdictions, and are subject to change given the political and economic climate in those countries. We report and pay income tax based on operational results and applicable law. Our tax provision contemplates tax rates currently in effect to determine both our current and deferred tax provisions. Any significant fluctuation in rates or changes in tax laws could cause our estimates of taxes we anticipate either paying or recovering in the future to change. Such changes could lead to either increases or decreases in our effective tax rate.

Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related tax assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of our business, there are operational decisions, transactions, facts and circumstances, and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is not certain. Furthermore, our tax positions are periodically subject to challenge by taxing authorities throughout the world. Every quarter we review our tax positions in each significant taxing jurisdiction in the process of evaluating our unrecognized tax benefits. Adjustments are made to our unrecognized tax benefits when: (i) facts and circumstances regarding a tax position change, causing a change in our judgment regarding that tax position; (ii) a tax position is effectively settled with a tax authority; and/or (iii) the statute of limitations expires regarding a tax position. Any significant impact as a result of changes in underlying facts, law, tax rates, tax audit, or review could lead to adjustments to our income tax expense, our effective tax rate, or our cash flow.

Additionally, we have established valuation allowances against a variety of deferred tax assets, including state net operating loss carryforwards, state income tax credit carryforwards, and certain foreign tax attributes. Valuation allowances take into consideration our ability to use these deferred tax assets and reduce the value of such items to the amount that is deemed more likely than not to be recoverable. Improvements or other changes in our operations, domestically and internationally, could increase our ability to utilize these tax attributes in the future. The release of valuation allowances in periods when these tax attributes become realizable would reduce our effective tax rate.

Taxes have not been provided for unremitted earnings that we continue to consider indefinitely reinvested, the determination of which is based on our future operational and capital requirements. We continue to maintain our indefinite reinvestment assertion with regards to the remaining unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and therefore do not accrue U.S. tax for the repatriation of the remaining unremitted foreign earnings. As of January 1, 2012, the amount of foreign earnings that we have the intent and ability to keep invested outside the U.S. indefinitely and for which no U.S. tax cost has been provided was approximately $330.0 million. It is not practical to calculate the unrecognized deferred tax liability on those earnings.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk