Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

 The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of NASDAQ OMX should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K, as well as the discussion under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”   

 Business Overview   

 The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. was formed from the combination of the businesses of Nasdaq and OMX AB on February 27, 2008. Under the purchase method of accounting, Nasdaq was treated as the accounting and legal acquirer in the business combination with OMX AB.  

 We are a leading global exchange group that delivers trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, and public company services across six continents. Our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, market data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, financial services, corporate solutions and market technology products and services. Our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting derivatives trading, clearing and settlement, cash equity trading, fixed income trading and many other functions.  

 We completed the following acquisitions during 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013:   

 •The assets of North American Energy Credit and Clearing Corp., March 2010;   

 •A derivatives trading market through the purchase of the remaining business of Nord Pool, May 2010;   

 •SMARTS, August 2010;   

 •FTEN, December 2010;   

 •ZVM, December 2010;   

 •Glide Technologies, October 2011;   

 •The business of RapiData, December 2011;   

 •NOS Clearing, July 2012;  

 •The index business of Mergent, Inc., including Indxis, December 2012;  

 •The TR Corporate Solutions businesses, May 2013; and  

 •eSpeed, June 2013.   

 These acquisitions have been treated as purchases for accounting purposes, with NASDAQ OMX treated as the acquirer. We also purchased a 22% equity interest in the European Multilateral Clearing Facility N.V., or EMCF, in January 2009. In December 2013, EMCF merged with EuroCCP, creating EuroCCP N.V., a new combined clearinghouse. NASDAQ OMX currently has a 25% equity interest in EuroCCP N.V. Additionally, we purchased a 72% ownership interest in BWise in May 2012 and a 25% equity interest in The Order Machine, or TOM, in April 2013. In March 2013, we formed a joint venture with SharesPost creating NPM. The financial results of these transactions are included in the consolidated financial results beginning on the date of each acquisition or strategic initiative.   

 Business Environment   

 We serve listed companies, market participants and investors by providing derivative, commodities, cash equity, and fixed income markets, thereby facilitating economic growth and corporate entrepreneurship. We provide market technology to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories around the world. We also offer companies and other organizations access to innovative products and software solutions and services that increase transparency, mitigate risk, improve board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. In broad terms, our business performance is impacted by a number of drivers including macroeconomic events affecting the risk and return of financial assets, investor sentiment, government and private sector demands for capital, the regulatory environment for capital markets, and changing technology particularly in the financial services industry. Our future revenues and net income will continue to be influenced by a number of domestic and international economic trends including:   

 •Trading volumes, particularly in U.S. and European derivative and cash equity securities, which are driven primarily by overall macroeconomic conditions;   

 •The number of companies seeking equity financing, which is affected by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, availability of diverse sources of financing as well as tax and regulatory policies;   

 •The demand for information about, or access to, our markets, which is dependent on the products we trade, our importance as a liquidity center, and the quality and pricing of our data and access services;   

 •The demand by companies and other organizations for the products sold by our Corporate Solutions business, which is largely driven by the overall state of the economy and the attractiveness of our offerings;   

 35  

 Table Of Contents   

•The demand for licensed exchange traded products and other financial products based on our indices as well as changes to the underlying assets associated with existing licensed financial products;  

 •The challenges created by the automation of market data consumption, including competition and the quickly evolving nature of the market data business;  

 •The outlook of our technology customers for capital market activity;  

 •Continuing pressure in transaction fee pricing due to intense competition in the U.S. and Europe;   

 •Competition for listings and trading related to pricing, product features and service offerings;   

 •Regulatory changes imposed upon certain types of instruments, transactions, or capital market participants; and   

 •Technological advancements and customers’ demand for speed, efficiency, and reliability.   

 Currently our business drivers are defined by investors’ and companies’ cautiously optimistic outlook about the pace of global economic recovery. Although some major market indices reached record levels in 2013, European equity markets have not performed as well and remain below their pre-financial crisis highs. As the global economy continues to avoid the intermittent crisis environments of 2010 through 2012, we are experiencing modest growth in many of our non-transactional businesses. Since a number of significant structural issues continue to confront the global economy, instability could return at any time, resulting in an increased level of market volatility, oscillating trading volumes, and a return of market uncertainty. In contrast, many of the largest customers of our transactional businesses continue to adapt their business models as they address the implementation of regulatory changes initiated following the global financial crisis, leading to lower trading volumes. In 2013, the U.S. and European cash equity trading businesses and the European derivative trading and clearing business experienced a decrease in volumes due to lower overall industry trading volumes. Steady performances by major stock market indices and consistently low volatility throughout 2013 helped to boost the U.S. IPO market. Additional impacts on our business drivers included the international enactment and implementation of new legislative and regulatory initiatives, and the continued rapid evolution and deployment of new technology in the financial services industry. The business environment that influenced our financial performance for 2013 may be characterized as follows:  

 •A strong pace of new equity issuance in the U.S. in 2013 with 126 IPOs on The NASDAQ Stock Market, up from 72 in 2012. IPO activity improved in the Nordics with 14 IPOs in 2013 compared to six IPOs in 2012 on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic;   

 •Average daily matched equity options volume for our three U.S. options exchanges increased 3.3% in 2013 compared to 2012, while overall average daily U.S. options volume increased 0.7%. The increase in our average daily matched options volume was driven by an increase in our combined matched market share for our three U.S. options exchanges of 0.7 percentage points as well as a slight increase in overall U.S. options volume;   

 •Average daily matched share volume for all of our U.S. cash equity markets decreased by 13.1%, while average daily U.S. share volume fell by 3.9% relative to 2012. Volatility, often a driver of volume levels, was lower in 2013 than 2012. Losses in matched share volume were due to both lower U.S. consolidated volume and a decrease in matched market share from 20.8% in 2012 (NASDAQ 17.0%; NASDAQ OMX BX 2.7%; NASDAQ OMX PSX 1.1%) to 18.8% in 2013 (NASDAQ 15.6%; NASDAQ OMX BX 2.5%; NASDAQ OMX PSX 0.7%);   

 •Continuous cost focus in the industry has further increased the growth of our NASDAQ Basic product, which is a low cost alternative to the consolidated tape. The number of NASDAQ Basic subscribers increased 128% in 2013 compared to 2012;   

 •An increase in Information Services revenues of 8.9% in 2013 relative to 2012, primarily due to increases in both U.S. market data products and index licensing and services revenues;   

 •A 4.4% decrease relative to 2012 in the average daily number of cash equity trades on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges;   

 •A 6.9% increase relative to 2012 in the SEK value of cash equity transactions on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges;   

 •A decline of 1.0% experienced by our Nordic and Baltic exchanges relative to 2012 in the number of traded and cleared options, futures and fixed-income contracts (excluding Finnish option contracts traded on Eurex);   

 •Intense competition among U.S. exchanges and dealer-owned systems for trading volume and strong competition between multilateral trading facilities and exchanges in Europe for trading volume;  

 •Globalization of exchanges, customers and competitors extending the competitive horizon beyond national markets; and   

 •Market trends requiring continued investment in technology to meet customers’ demands for speed, capacity, and reliability as markets adapt to a global financial industry, as increasing numbers of new companies are created, and as emerging countries show ongoing interest in developing their financial markets.   

 36  

 Table Of Contents   

Financial Summary   

 The following table summarizes our financial performance for the year ended December 31, 2013 when compared with the same period in 2012. The comparability of our results of operations between reported periods is impacted by the acquisitions of eSpeed on June 28, 2013 and the TR Corporate Solutions businesses on May 31, 2013. See “Acquisition of eSpeed for Trading of U.S. Treasuries” and “Acquisition of the Investor Relations, Public Relations and Multimedia Solutions Businesses of Thomson Reuters,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 #Denotes a variance greater than 100.0%.   

 In countries with currencies other than the U.S. dollar, revenues and expenses are translated using monthly average exchange rates. The following discussion of results of operations isolates the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations to better measure the comparability of operating results between periods. Operating results excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations are calculated by translating the current period’s results by the prior period’s exchange rates.   

 Impacts associated with fluctuations in foreign currency are discussed in more detail under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 34.8% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 29.0% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Swedish Krona, Euro, Norwegian Krone, Danish Krone and British Pound.   

 The following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the year ended December 31, 2013 when compared with the same period in 2012:   

 •Revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased $221 million, or 13.2%, to $1,895 million in 2013, compared with $1,674 million in 2012, reflecting an operational increase of $206 million and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $15 million. The increase in operational revenues was primarily due to an:   

 •increase in Corporate Solutions revenues of $141 million, reflecting higher revenues resulting from the acquisition of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses in May 2013;   

 •increase in fixed income trading revenues less brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $35 million, reflecting the acquisition of eSpeed;   

 •increase in Market Data Products revenues of $22 million, primarily from U.S. market data products;   

 •increase in Market Technology revenues of $20 million, primarily from higher change request and advisory revenues and software as a service revenues; and   

 •increase in Index Licensing and Services revenues of $11 million, partially offset by a;   

 •decrease in cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $22 million.  

 •Operating expenses increased $223 million, or 22.7%, to $1,207 million in 2013, compared with $984 million in 2012, reflecting an operational increase of $214 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $9 million. The increase in operational expenses was primarily due to additional overall expense associated with our acquisitions of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses in May 2013 and eSpeed in June 2013, our voluntary accommodation program, higher merger and strategic initiatives expense, and expenses paid with respect to an SEC matter, partially offset by a decrease in restructuring charges.   

 37  

 Table Of Contents   

•Interest expense increased $14 million, or 14.4%, to $111 million in 2013, compared with $97 million in 2012, primarily due to the issuance of our €600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior unsecured notes due June 2021, or the 2021 Notes, in June 2013. See “3.875% Senior Unsecured Notes,” of Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.   

 •Gain on sale of investment security of $30 million in 2013 related to the sale of our available-for-sale investment security in Dubai Financial Market PJSC, or DFM.  

 •Asset impairment charges in 2013 of $14 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships ($7 million) and a certain trade name ($7 million). In 2012, asset impairment charges of $40 million were related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with technology ($19 million), customer relationships ($6 million), and a certain trade name ($3 million), as well as an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $12 million related to our equity interest in EMCF.    

 •Loss on divestiture of business in 2012 of $14 million related to the sale of International Derivatives Clearing Group, LLC, or IDCG. See “2012 Divestiture,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.   

 •Income tax provision increased $17 million, or 8.5%, in 2013 compared with 2012, primarily due to the increase in income before income taxes in 2013 compared with 2012.  

 These current and prior year items are discussed in more detail below.   

 Excluding our voluntary accommodation program expense, gain on sale of investment security, merger and strategic initiatives expense, expenses paid with respect to an SEC matter, asset impairment charges, restructuring charges, loss on divestiture of business and other items that are not reflective of our core business performance, net of taxes, non-GAAP consolidated net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $445 million, or $2.60 per diluted share, compared with $432 million, or $2.50 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2012. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for further discussion.   

 2014 Outlook   

 For the sixth year in a row, more share value traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market than on any other single cash equities exchange in the world. The economic environment remained stable in 2013, although uncertainty remains throughout the global economy and the debate over future fiscal policy in the U.S. continues. By traditional measures, it was also a difficult year for the exchange business. After reaching an all-time high in 2009, U.S. cash equity trading volume fell for a fourth consecutive year. For the last six years, trading volume in the U.S. and around the world has been driven by volatility associated with the global financial crisis, rather than the prospects for economic growth. While the economic view may be that the worst of the financial crisis has passed, robust economic growth has yet to develop. Consequently, NASDAQ OMX has intentionally structured its organization to account for the highly cyclical nature of our industry. By diversifying our earnings through the sale of Corporate Solutions, Access Services, Market Technology and Market Data products, and by delivering on cost savings, NASDAQ OMX has been able to provide stable revenues and operating income during these tough conditions. Should 2014 present an equally difficult environment, we believe our organization is positively positioned to compete.   

 We launched several important initiatives during 2013 that we expect to benefit us during the challenging and competitive economic environment anticipated for 2014. In May 2013, we completed our acquisition of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses, which provide insight, analytics and communications solutions. These complementary businesses are being integrated into our Corporate Solutions business, which is part of our Technology Solutions segment, to create a differentiated client experience through a comprehensive portfolio of technology-driven solutions to more than 10,000 clients worldwide. We continue to leverage the opportunities in our Corporate Solutions and Market Technology businesses by offering new products to our expanding customer base and by strengthening our direct relationships with those customers.   

 Additionally, in June 2013 we acquired the eSpeed platform, which operates a fully executable central limit order book for electronic trading in benchmark U.S. Treasuries, one of the largest and most liquid cash markets in the world, enabling us to enter new markets with a low-cost platform available to both existing and new clients, while creating additional sales opportunities for both our Market Services and Market Data Products businesses.   

 During 2013, the U.S. IPO market experienced its best year since the 2008 financial crisis. In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act, which is intended to encourage companies to seek access to public capital through an IPO. While the long-term effects of the bill remain to be seen, the overall increase in IPOs this year compared to 2011 and 2012 may be a positive sign for 2014. We expect the demand for public equity capital from companies experiencing the gradual return of global economic growth and the strong broad market returns during 2013 could support a robust IPO market if these trends continue. Furthermore, an improved outlook for equity investments and the number of private companies seeking capital could positively impact the IPO pipeline in 2014.   

 38  

 Table Of Contents   

During 2014, we expect to confront changes in both the competitive and regulatory environments. In November 2013, ICE completed its acquisition of NYSE Euronext. ICE has also indicated its intent to spin off Euronext via an IPO. In early 2014, BATS merged with Direct Edge, creating a holding company with four equity platforms that currently execute roughly the same amount of volume as NASDAQ OMX’s three U.S. equity platforms. These transactions have the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the U.S. and Europe.  

 European regulators are currently considering a number of new policies affecting the operation and infrastructure of the financial markets. The implementation of EMIR is changing the way we structure and operate the Nordic clearinghouse. We expect the requirements of EMIR to be finalized in 2014. Also, the update to MiFID II is expected to be completed in 2014 with final implementation by 2016. Finally, our clients are confronting significant regulatory changes in both the U.S. and Europe as regulations resulting from legislation in the aftermath of the financial crisis are implemented. We expect global markets to continue to be marked by significant change in 2014, driven primarily by regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and Europe. These policy changes could result in the continued fragmentation of cash equity markets into additional venues, and trading could continue to migrate from exchanges to OTC systems, particularly in the U.S. Conversely, trading in OTC derivatives could begin to move onto exchanges and other execution facilities.   

 Any further expansion of the global economy in the year ahead may be positive for our business drivers and our operations. We believe that our aggressive steps in meeting our cost, revenue, and technology objectives over the last three years will enable us to benefit from any improving economic conditions in 2014. We will continue to look for opportunities to further diversify our business with enhanced product offerings and/or acquisitions that are complementary to our existing businesses.   

 Business Segments   

 Since January 1, 2013, we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: Market Services, Listing Services, Information Services and Technology Solutions. All prior period segment disclosures have been recast to reflect our change in reportable segments. Certain other prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.   

 Prior to January 1, 2013, we managed, operated and provided our products and services in three business segments: Market Services, Issuer Services and Market Technology.   

 Our reportable segments are as follows.  

 Market Services   

 Our Market Services segment includes our derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, fixed income trading, and access and broker services businesses. We offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including derivatives, cash equities, debt, commodities, structured products and ETFs. In addition, in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide investment firm, clearing, settlement and central depository services. In addition, eSpeed’s electronic benchmark U.S. Treasury brokerage and co-location service businesses are part of our Market Services segment. See “Acquisition of eSpeed for Trading of U.S. Treasuries,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

 Listing Services   

 Our Listing Services segment includes our U.S. and European Listing Services businesses. We offer capital raising solutions to over 3,300 companies around the globe representing over $8.0 trillion in total market value as of December 31, 2013.   

 We operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. Our main listing markets are The NASDAQ Stock Market and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic. We offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, as well as NASDAQ Dubai.   

 Information Services  

 Our Information Services segment includes our Market Data Products and our Index Licensing and Services businesses.   

 Our Market Data Products business delivers historical and real-time market data to 2.5 million financial professionals and individual investors globally. In addition, eSpeed’s market data business is part of our Information Services segment. See “Acquisition of eSpeed for Trading of U.S. Treasuries,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

 39  

 Table Of Contents   

Our Index Licensing and Services business has been creating innovative and transparent indexes since 1971. As of December 31, 2013, there are over 9,000 structured products based on NASDAQ OMX indexes, spanning different geographies and asset classes with almost $1.5 trillion of notional value.   

 Technology Solutions   

 Our Technology Solutions segment includes our Corporate Solutions and Market Technology businesses.   

 Our Corporate Solutions business provides customer support services, products and programs to customers, including companies listed on our exchanges. Through Corporate Solutions offerings, companies gain access to innovative products and software solutions and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, improve board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. In May 2013, we acquired the TR Corporate Solutions businesses. See “Acquisition of the Investor Relations, Public Relations and Multimedia Solutions Businesses of Thomson Reuters,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. With the acquisition of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses, Corporate Solutions revenues primarily include subscription and transaction-based income from products in the following key areas: Governance, Investor Relations, Multimedia Solutions and Public Relations businesses.   

 Our Market Technology business is a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. Our technology business is also the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces.   

 Market Technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination to markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia to smaller African markets. Our solutions can handle a wide array of assets including cash equities, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and derivatives. Market Technology also provides governance, risk and compliance software solutions.  

 Our management allocates resources, assesses performance and manages these businesses as four separate segments. See Note 19, “Business Segments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.   

 Sources of Revenues and Cost of Revenues   

 Market Services Revenues   

 Derivative Trading and Clearing Revenues  

 U.S. Derivative Trading and Clearing   

 U.S. derivative trading and clearing revenues are variable, based on traded and cleared volumes, and recognized when executed or when contacts are cleared. The principal types of derivative contracts traded on our U.S. options exchanges are equity options, ETF options, index options and currency options. In the U.S., we record execution revenues from transactions on a gross basis as revenues and record related expenses as cost of revenues.  

 For U.S. derivative trading, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and record the transaction rebate as a cost of revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income. These transaction rebates are paid on a monthly basis and the amounts due are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

 Also, we pay Section 31 fees to the SEC for supervision and regulation of securities markets. We pass these costs along to our customers through our derivative trading and clearing fees. We collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on our options exchanges and we recognize these amounts in U.S. derivative trading and clearing cost of revenues when incurred. Section 31 fees received are included in cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the SEC is remitted semiannually and recorded as Section 31 fees payable to the SEC in the Consolidated Balance Sheets until paid. Since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. As we hold the cash received until payment to the SEC, we earn interest income on the related cash balances.  

  European Derivative Trading and Clearing   

 European derivative trading and clearing revenues are variable, based on the volume and value of traded and cleared contracts, and recognized when executed or when contracts are cleared. The principal types of derivative contracts traded and cleared are stock options and futures, index options and futures, international power derivatives, carbon and other commodity products, and fixed-income options and futures. We also generate clearing revenues for OTC traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market, interest rate swaps, and resale and repurchase agreements. These clearing revenues are based on the value and   

 40  

 Table Of Contents   

length of the contract and are recognized when cleared. In addition, NASDAQ OMX Commodities members are billed an annual fee which is recognized ratably over the following 12-month period.   

 NASDAQ OMX Commodities and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic do not have any revenue sharing agreements or cost of revenues, such as transaction rebates and brokerage, clearance and exchange fees.  

 Cash Equity Trading Revenues  

 U.S. Cash Equity Trading   

 U.S. cash equity trading revenues are variable, based on individual customer share volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. We charge transaction fees for executing cash equity trades in NASDAQ-listed and other listed securities on our U.S. cash equity exchanges, as well as on orders that are routed to other market venues for execution. Similar to U.S. derivative trading and clearing, we record cash equity trading revenues from transactions on a gross basis as revenues and record related expenses as cost of revenues, as we have certain risk associated with trade execution. For further discussion see “U.S. Derivative Trading and Clearing” above.  

 For The NASDAQ Stock Market and NASDAQ OMX PSX, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for NASDAQ OMX BX, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. We record these credits as transaction rebates that are included in cost of revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income. These transaction rebates are paid on a monthly basis and the amounts due are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

 As discussed under U.S. derivative trading and clearing, we also pay Section 31 fees to the SEC for supervision and regulation of securities markets. We pass these costs along to our customers through our cash equity trading fees. We collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on our cash equity platforms and we recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when incurred.  

  European Cash Equity Trading   

 We charge transaction fees for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic. These transaction fees are charged per executed order and as per value traded.   

 The exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic do not have any revenue sharing agreements or cost of revenues, such as transaction rebates and brokerage, clearance and exchange fees.   

 Fixed Income Trading Revenues   

 We operate eSpeed, an electronic trading platform for U.S. Treasuries. The electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark U.S. Treasury securities. Customer contracts may be on a fixed or variable rate basis. Revenues from customers with a fixed rate basis are recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenues from customers with a variable rate basis are based upon individual customer share volume and are recognized as revenues as the transaction occurs.   

 Access and Broker Services Revenues   

 Access Services  

 We generate revenues by providing market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. The type of connectivity is determined by the level of functionality a customer needs. As a result, Access Services revenues vary depending on the type of connection provided to customers. We provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. These participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. We also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. Revenues for providing access to our markets, co-location services and revenues for monthly exchange membership and registration fees are recognized on a monthly basis as the service is provided. Revenues from annual fees for exchange membership and registration fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period.   

 Access Services revenues also include revenues from the RTRM solutions we provide to the financial securities market. As a market leader in RTRM, we provide broker-dealers and their clients the ability to manage risk more effectively in real-time, which leads to better utilization of capital as well as improved regulatory compliance. Revenues for these services are primarily based on subscription agreements with customers. Most contracts include professional services, implementation fees, monthly subscription fees from customers accessing on-demand services, and customer support. Implementation fees are recognized upon completion of the implementation. Monthly professional services, subscription, and usage fees are recognized in the month the service is provided.   

 Broker Services   

 41  

 Table Of Contents   

Our Broker Services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the Nordic markets. The primary services offered are flexible back-office systems which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company’s back-office functions. Revenues from broker services are based on a fixed basic fee for administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed. Broker Services revenues are recognized on a continuous basis as services are rendered.  

 Listing Services Revenues   

 U.S. Listing Services Revenues   

 Listing Services revenues in the U.S. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. Annual renewal fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. Listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration.   

 European Listing Services Revenues   

 European listing fees, which are comprised of revenues derived from annual fees received from companies listed on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and NASDAQ OMX First North, are directly related to the listed companies’ market capitalization on a trailing 12-month basis. These revenues are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period.   

 Information Services Revenues  

 Market Data Products Revenues   

 Market Data Products revenues are earned from U.S. and European proprietary market data products and index data products. In the U.S., we also earn revenues from U.S. tape plans.   

  U.S. Market Data Products   

 We collect and process information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own data and select third-party content. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. We earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. U.S. Market Data revenues are recognized on a monthly basis. These revenues, which are subscription based, are recorded net of amounts due under revenue sharing arrangements with market participants.  

 Revenues from U.S. tape plans include eligible UTP Plan revenues that are shared among UTP Plan participants and are presented on a net basis. Under the revenue sharing provision of the UTP Plan, we are permitted to deduct costs associated with acting as the exclusive Securities Information Processor from the total amount of tape revenues collected. After these costs are deducted from the tape revenues, we distribute to the respective UTP Plan participants, including The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX, their share of tape revenues based on a formula, required by Regulation NMS, that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, all quotes and trades in NYSE- and NYSE MKT-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on NYSE- and NYSE MKT-listed securities. Revenues from net U.S. tape plans are recognized on a monthly basis.   

 European Market Data Products   

 European Market Data Products revenues are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, as well as NASDAQ OMX Commodities, for the following classes of securities: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. Revenues from European market data are subscription-based, are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data and are recognized on a monthly basis.   

 Market Data Products Revenue Sharing   

 The most significant component of Market Data Products revenues presented on a net basis is the UTP Plan revenue sharing in the U.S. All indicators of gross vs. net reporting under U.S. GAAP have been considered in analyzing the appropriate presentation of UTP Plan revenue sharing. However, the following are the primary indicators of net reporting:   

 •Primary Obligor: We are the Securities Information Processor for the UTP Plan, in addition to being a participant in the UTP Plan. In our unique role as Securities Information Processor, we facilitate the collection and dissemination of revenues on behalf of the UTP Plan participants. As a participant, we share in the net distribution of revenues according to the plan on the same terms as all other plan participants.   

 •Risk of Loss/Credit Risk: Risk of loss on the revenue is shared equally among plan participants according to the UTP Plan.   

 42  

 Table Of Contents   

•Price Latitude: The operating committee of the UTP Plan, which is comprised of representatives from each of the participants, including us solely in our capacity as a UTP Plan participant, is responsible for setting the level of fees to be paid by distributors and subscribers and taking action in accordance with the provisions of the UTP Plan, subject to SEC approval.   

 The exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic do not have any market data revenue sharing agreements.  

 Index Data Products   

 Index Data Products revenues are generated from our NASDAQ OMX indexes and consist of Global Index Data Services, which deliver real time index values throughout the trading day, and Global Index Watch, which delivers weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data. We earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. These revenues, which are subscription based, are recognized on a monthly basis.  

 Index Licensing and Services Revenues   

 We develop and license NASDAQ OMX branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our Global Index Group business. Revenues primarily include license fees from these branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products in the U.S. and abroad. We also generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored ETFs. We primarily have two types of license agreements: transaction-based licenses and asset-based licenses. Transaction-based licenses are generally renewable long-term agreements. Customers are charged based on transaction volume or a minimum contract amount, or both. If a customer is charged based on transaction volume, we recognize revenue when the transaction occurs. If a customer is charged based on a minimum contract amount, we recognize revenue on a pro-rata basis over the licensing term. Asset-based licenses are also generally long-term agreements. Customers are charged based on a percentage of assets under management for licensed products, per the agreement, on a monthly or quarterly basis. These revenues are recorded on a monthly or quarterly basis over the term of the license agreement.   

 Technology Solutions Revenues   

 Corporate Solutions Revenues  

 Corporate Solutions revenues primarily include subscription and transaction-based income from our Governance, Investor Relations, Multimedia Solutions and Public Relations businesses. Subscription-based revenues earned by these businesses are recognized ratably over the contract period, generally one to two years in length. As part of the subscription agreements, customers can also be charged usage fees based upon actual usage of the services provided. Revenues from usage fees and other services are recognized when earned. Revenues from transaction-based services, such as webcasting and wire distribution, are recorded as the services are provided and delivered.   

 Market Technology Revenues  

 Market Technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement surveillance and information dissemination, as well as governance, risk and compliance solutions. Revenues primarily consist of software, license and support revenues, change request and advisory revenues, and software as a service revenues.   

 For most solutions, we enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. In order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value for each element. When VSOE for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered.   

 We also enter into revolving subscription agreements which allow customers to connect to our servers to access certain services. These revenues are recognized ratably over the subscription term.   

 Software, License and Support   

 Software, license and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by NASDAQ OMX and are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. After we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services, such as facility management. Facility management revenues are derived when NASDAQ OMX assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. Revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered, unless VSOE can be established for each element of the contract. We   

 43  

 Table Of Contents   

record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

 Software, license and support revenues also include delivery project revenues which are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by NASDAQ OMX. The majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. We may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. Under contract accounting, when VSOE for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. We record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

 Change Request and Advisory   

 Change request and advisory revenues include configuration, customer specific adaptations and modifications of the system solutions sold by NASDAQ OMX after delivery has occurred. Change request and advisory revenues are recognized as revenues when earned.   

 Software As a Service   

 Software as a service revenues are derived from subscription based arrangements, where customers pay a fee to access our servers to access certain services. These services include broker compliance solutions targeting brokers throughout the world, as well as governance, risk and compliance services.  

 44  

 Table Of Contents   

 NASDAQ OMX’s Operating Results   

 Key Drivers   

 The following table includes key drivers for our Market Services, Listing Services, and Technology Solutions segments. In evaluating the performance of our business, our senior management closely watches these key drivers.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 45  

 Table Of Contents   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Primarily transactions executed on Nord Pool and reported for clearing to NASDAQ OMX Commodities measured by TWh and one thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide (1000 tCO2).   

 (2) Includes transactions executed on NASDAQ’s, NASDAQ OMX BX’s and NASDAQ OMX PSX’s systems plus trades reported through the FINRA/NASDAQ TRF.  

 (3) New listings include IPOs, including those completed on a best efforts basis, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and separately listed ETFs.   

 (4) New listings include IPOs and represent companies listed on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic and companies on the alternative markets of NASDAQ OMX First North.   

 (5) Number of listed companies for NASDAQ at period end, including separately listed ETFs.   

 (6) Represents companies listed on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic and companies on the alternative markets of NASDAQ OMX First North at period end.   

 (7) Total contract value of orders signed during the period.  

 (8) Represents total contract value of signed orders that are yet to be recognized as revenue. Market Technology deferred revenue as discussed in Note 8, “Deferred Revenue,” to the consolidated financial statements, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders.  

 Segment Operating Results   

 Of our total 2013 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,895 million, 41.0% was from our Market Services segment, 12.0% was from our Listing Services segment, 23.3% was from our Information Services segment and 23.7% was from our Technology Solutions segment. Of our total 2012 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,674 million, 45.4% was from our Market Services segment, 13.4% was from our Listing Services segment, 24.2% was from our Information Services segment and 17.0% was from our Technology Solutions segment. Of our total 2011 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,690 million, 47.6% was from our Market Services segment, 14.0% was from our Listing Services segment, 23.1% was from our Information Services segment and 15.3% was from our Technology Solutions segment.  

 The following table shows our revenues by segment, cost of revenues for our Market Services segment and total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 46  

 Table Of Contents   

 MARKET SERVICES   

 The following table shows total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees from our Market Services segment:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 #Denotes a variance greater than 100.0%.   

 (1) Includes Section 31 fees of $27 million in 2013, $32 million in 2012 and $26 million in 2011. Section 31 fees are recorded as U.S. derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues.   

 47  

 Table Of Contents   

(2) Includes Section 31 fees of $243 million in 2013, $277 million in 2012 and $304 million in 2011. Section 31 fees are recorded as U.S. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues.    

 Market Services   

 Market Services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional revenues less brokerage, clearance and exchange fees from our fixed income trading business which we acquired in June 2013 and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million, partially offset by a decline in cash equity trading revenues less brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. The decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decline in cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance, and exchange fees, a decline in derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $12 million. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in Access Services revenues.   

 U.S. Derivative Trading and Clearing Revenues   

 Both the U.S. derivative trading and clearing revenues and revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2013 compared to 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared to 2011. The increases in 2013 were primarily due to an overall increase in our market share due to the mix of our market share between our three U.S. options exchanges and slightly higher industry trading volumes. The increase in U.S. derivative trading revenues was partially offset by a decrease in Section 31 pass-through fee revenue. The decreases in 2012 were primarily due to declines in industry trading volumes and declines in market share on the NASDAQ OMX PHLX market, partially offset by increases in revenue capture per traded contract, increases in market share on the NASDAQ Options Market and the inclusion of the NASDAQ OMX BX Options market, launched in June 2012.   

 Section 31 fees are recorded as derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. We are assessed these fees from the SEC and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. Since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. Section 31 fees were $27 million in 2013, $32 million in 2012 and $26 million in 2011. The decrease in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to lower pass-through fee rates. The increase in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to higher pass-through fee rates, partially offset by a decrease in industry trading volumes.   

 Transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, increased in 2013 compared to 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to an overall increase in our combined market share and slightly higher industry trading volumes. The decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decrease in industry trading volumes and a decrease in market share, partially offset by an increase in overall rebate capture rates.   

 Brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 and increased in 2012 compared with 2011. The decrease in 2013 was primarily due to lower Section 31 pass-through fees partially offset by an increase in routing costs. The increase in 2012 was primarily due to an increase in Section 31 pass-through fees.   

 European Derivative Trading and Clearing Revenues   

 The following table shows revenues from European derivative trading and clearing:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 European derivative trading and clearing revenues increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to higher revenues in our energy, carbon and other commodity products primarily due to the acquisition of NOS Clearing in July 2012 and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million, partially offset by lower revenues on our fixed-income products primarily due to the impact of NLX trading incentives. The decrease in 2012 was primarily due to lower trading activity for index options and futures contracts and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million.   

 48  

 Table Of Contents   

U.S. Cash Equity Trading Revenues   

 U.S. cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in both 2013 compared to 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. The decreases were primarily due to declines in industry trading volumes and declines in our matched market share. The 2012 period also includes income of $11 million from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange.   

 U.S. cash equity trading revenues decreased in both 2013 compared to 2012 and 2012 compared to 2011. The decreases were primarily due to declines in industry trading volumes and our matched market share, and a decrease in Section 31 pass-through fee revenues.    

 Similar to U.S. derivative trading and clearing, we record Section 31 fees as U.S. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. We are assessed these fees from the SEC and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. Since the amount recorded as revenues is equal to the amount recorded as cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. Section 31 fees were $243 million in 2013, $277 million in 2012 and $304 million in 2011. The decrease in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to lower dollar volume traded on the NASDAQ and NASDAQ OMX BX trading systems and lower pass-through fee rates. The decrease in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to lower dollar value traded on the NASDAQ and NASDAQ OMX BX trading systems, partially offset by higher pass-through fee rates.   

 For NASDAQ and NASDAQ OMX PSX, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for NASDAQ OMX BX, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. These transaction rebates decreased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to a decline in industry trading volumes and our matched market share.   

 Brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in both 2013 compared to 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to a decrease in Section 31 pass-through fees and a decrease in the amount of volume routed by NASDAQ due to declines in industry trading volumes and our matched market share. Brokerage, clearance and exchange fees in 2012 also include income of $11 million from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange.  

 European Cash Equity Trading Revenues   

 European cash equity trading revenues include trading revenues from equity products traded on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic exchanges. European cash equity trading revenues increased in 2013 compared to 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared to 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to higher average value of shares traded, higher average pricing and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. The decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a decline in trading activity and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million.   

 Fixed Income Trading Revenues  

 Fixed income trading revenues less brokerage, clearance and exchange fees includes transaction fees generated from our eSpeed electronic benchmark U.S. Treasury trading platform that was acquired on June 28, 2013. See “Acquisition of eSpeed for Trading of U.S. Treasuries,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

 Access and Broker Services Revenues   

 Access and Broker Services revenues decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 and increased in 2012 compared with 2011. The decrease in 2013 was primarily due to declines in customer demand for network connectivity services, partially offset by increased revenues from the addition of eSpeed hosting revenues and new products. The increase in 2012 was primarily due to increased demand for services and revenues from new products.  

 49  

 Table Of Contents   

 LISTING SERVICES   

 The following table shows revenues from our Listing Services segment:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Listing Services   

 Listing Services revenues increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was due to an increase in European listing services revenues resulting from higher market capitalization and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. The decrease in 2012 was due to decreases in both U.S. listing services and European listing services revenues. The decrease in U.S. listing services revenues was primarily due to a decrease in annual renewal revenues resulting from a decline in the number of listed companies from 2,680 as of December 31, 2011 to 2,577 as of December 31, 2012. The decrease in European listing services revenues was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million, as well as a decrease in the number of listed companies from 776 as of December 31, 2011 to 754 as of December 31, 2012.   

 INFORMATION SERVICES  

 The following table shows revenues from our Information Services segment:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Information Services   

 Information Services revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to increases in U.S. market data products and Index Licensing and Services revenues.   

 U.S. Market Data Products Revenues   

 U.S. market data products revenues increased in both 2013 compared to 2012 and 2012 compared to 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to an increase in audit collections, higher demand for proprietary data products, pricing changes, and an increase in revenues due to the acquisition of eSpeed which was completed on June 28, 2013. See “Acquisition of eSpeed for Trading of U.S. Treasuries,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. The increase in 2012 was primarily due to higher customer demand for proprietary data products and pricing changes.  

 European Market Data Products Revenues   

 European market data products revenues increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. The decrease in 2012 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million and a decline in user populations.   

 50  

 Table Of Contents   

Index Data Products Revenues   

 Index data products revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to higher audit collections.  

 Index Licensing and Services Revenues   

 Index Licensing and Services revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to our acquisition of the index business of Mergent, Inc., including Indxis, in December 2012 and an increase in the value of underlying assets associated with NASDAQ OMX-licensed ETFs and other financial products due to product growth and newly executed product licenses. The increase in 2012 was primarily due to an increase in the value of underlying assets associated with NASDAQ OMX-licensed ETFs and other financial products due to product growth and newly executed product licenses, partially offset by lower futures and options volumes.   

 TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS  

 The following table shows revenues from our Technology Solutions segment:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 #Denotes a variance greater than 100.0%.   

 Technology Solutions  

 Technology Solutions revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011 due to increases in both Corporate Solutions revenues and Market Technology revenues. Market Technology revenues included a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million in 2013 and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million in 2012.   

 Corporate Solutions Revenues  

 Corporate Solutions revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to the acquisition of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses completed on May 31, 2013 and expanding customer utilization of our public relations products. See “Acquisition of the Investor Relations, Public Relations and Multimedia Solutions Businesses of Thomson Reuters,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our acquisition of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses. The increase in 2012 was primarily due to revenues from expanded customer utilization of our public relations products.   

 Market Technology Revenues  

 Software, License and Support Revenues  

 Software, license and support revenues increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to an operational increase of $4 million, primarily due to BWise, which was acquired in May 2012, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. The increase in 2012 was primarily due to an increase in the recognition of previously deferred delivery project revenues. Delivery project revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by   

 51  

 Table Of Contents   

NASDAQ OMX. Total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are typically deferred until the customization and any significant modifications are completed and are then recognized over the post contract support period.   

 Change Request and Advisory Revenues  

 Change request and advisory revenues increased in 2013 compared to 2012 and were flat in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to an increase in advisory revenues from BWise, which was acquired in May 2012, and an increase in change requests.  

 Software As a Service Revenues  

 Software as a service revenues increased in both 2013 compared to 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. The increases were primarily due to an increase in broker compliance revenues reflecting increased customer demand. The increase in 2013 was partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million.   

 Total Order Value   

 As of December 31, 2013, total order value, which represents the total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenues, was $655 million. Market Technology deferred revenue, included in the total Technology Solutions deferred revenue of $152 million, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. See Note 8, “Deferred Revenue,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. The recognition and timing of these revenues depends on many factors, including those that are not within our control. As such, the following table of Market Technology revenues to be recognized in the future represents our best estimate:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Expenses   

 Operating Expenses   

 The following table shows our operating expenses:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 #Denotes a variance greater than 100.0%.   

 Total operating expenses increased $223 million in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased $10 million in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 reflects an operational increase of $214 million and unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $9   

 52  

 Table Of Contents   

million. The operational increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional overall expense associated with our acquisitions of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses in May 2013 and eSpeed in June 2013, the voluntary accommodation program expense, higher merger and strategic initiatives expense, and expenses paid with respect to an SEC matter, partially offset by a decrease in restructuring charges. The decrease in 2012 reflects a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses of $7 million. The operational increase of $7 million in 2012 was primarily due to restructuring actions taken during 2012 and an increase in professional and contract services expense, partially offset by decreases in merger and strategic initiatives expense and general, administrative and other expense.   

 Compensation and benefits expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to an operational increase of $81 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million. The operational increase primarily reflects additional salary expense due to our acquisitions of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses in May 2013, eSpeed in June 2013, BWise in May 2012 and NOS Clearing in July 2012, as well as higher compensation expense reflecting increased financial performance. Partially offsetting these increases were lower salary costs due to workforce reductions of 257 positions across our organization related to restructuring actions beginning in the first quarter of 2012 through the first quarter of 2013. The decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $8 million and lower compensation expense reflecting reduced financial performance and restructuring activities, partially offset by an increase in salary expense, primarily due to our acquisitions of Glide Technologies in October 2011, BWise in May 2012 and NOS Clearing in July 2012. Headcount, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest, increased to 3,365 employees at December 31, 2013 from 2,506 at December 31, 2012 and increased to 2,506 employees at December 31, 2012 from 2,433 employees at December 31, 2011. The increased headcount in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to our acquisitions of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses and eSpeed. The increase in headcount in 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to our acquisitions of BWise and NOS Clearing, partially offset by workforce reductions of 226 positions across our organization related to restructuring actions in 2012. See Note 3, “Restructuring Charges,” to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges incurred in 2012.   

 Marketing and advertising expense increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to increased advertising on behalf of new issuers and the increase in 2012 was primarily due to increased advertising primarily featuring listed issuers.   

 Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional amortization expense associated with acquired intangible assets, primarily relating to our acquisitions of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses in May 2013 and eSpeed in June 2013, as well as increased depreciation expense associated with technology assets placed in service in 2013. The decrease in 2012 was primarily due to the write-off of certain acquired intangible assets associated with technology ($19 million), customer relationships ($6 million), and a certain trade name ($3 million), the write-off and disposal of leasehold improvements, asset impairments related to restructuring activities, primarily consisting of fixed assets and capitalized software which have been retired, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million, partially offset by additional depreciation and amortization expense as a result of our acquisitions, primarily BWise in May 2012.   

 Professional and contract services expense increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to revenue-related costs incurred as a result of our acquisition of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses, costs incurred for special legal expenses, and the launch of new initiatives. The revenue-related costs are primarily due to the production and delivery of webcast events as well as other events and services. The increase in 2012 was primarily due to costs incurred for special legal expenses, as well as incremental spending for professional and contract services, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million.   

 Computer operations and data communications expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional expense as a result of our acquisitions of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses in May 2013 and eSpeed in June 2013, as well as higher communication line costs. The decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a value added tax, or VAT, refund relating to prior periods and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million, partially offset by additional computer operations and data communications expense as a result of our acquisitions, primarily Glide Technologies in October 2011 and BWise in May 2012.   

 Occupancy expense increased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to additional costs related to our acquisition of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses. The increase in 2012 was primarily due to additional occupancy expense as a result of our acquisitions, primarily BWise in May 2012, as well as a $3 million sublease loss reserve charge on space we currently occupy due to an increase in net rental costs, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million.   

 Merger and strategic initiatives expense was $22 million in 2013 compared with $4 million in 2012 and $38 million in 2011. Merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2013 primarily related to our acquisitions of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses and eSpeed, partially offset by a credit of $23 million associated with a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party   

 53  

 Table Of Contents   

and the remeasurement of a contingent purchase price liability related to the BWise acquisition due to changes in the anticipated performance of BWise. Merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2012 primarily related to our agreement with Thomson Reuters to acquire its Investor Relations, Public Relations and Multimedia Solutions businesses and costs related to other acquisitions and strategic initiatives, partially offset by a gain on our acquisition of NOS Clearing in July 2012. Merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2011 primarily related to costs incurred for advisors, bank commitment fees, legal and other professional services related to our joint proposal to acquire NYSE Euronext, as well as costs related to our acquisition of Glide Technologies in October 2011.   

 Restructuring charges were $9 million in 2013 and $44 million in 2012. Our restructuring program was completed in the first quarter of 2013. See Note 3, “Restructuring Charges,” to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our restructuring charges recorded during 2013 and 2012.   

 General, administrative and other expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 and decreased in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to expenses paid with respect to an SEC matter of $10 million, additional expenses related to the acquisitions of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses in May 2013 and eSpeed in June 2013, the launch of new initiatives, and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million. For further discussion of the SEC matter, see “Litigation,” of Note 18, “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees,” to the consolidated financial statements. The decrease in 2012 was primarily due to a pre-tax charge recorded in 2011 of $25 million related to the write-off of a portion of the unamortized balance of debt issuance costs and debt discount related to the repayment of $335 million of the aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 2.50% convertible senior notes due August 15, 2013, or the 2013 Convertible Notes, that was completed in October 2011, and a pre-tax charge of $6 million recorded in 2011 related to the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs related to our $700 million senior unsecured term loan facility that was repaid in September 2011. General, administrative and other expense included a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $3 million in 2012.  

 Voluntary accommodation program expense of $44 million in 2013 relates to the one-time program for voluntary accommodations to qualifying members of up to $62 million, for which a liability was recorded as the program was approved by the SEC in March 2013. This program expanded the pool available to compensate members of The NASDAQ Stock Market for qualified losses arising directly from the system issues experienced with the Facebook IPO that occurred on May 18, 2012. In October 2013, NASDAQ OMX announced the completion of initial review by The Market Regulation Department of FINRA of all claims submitted by qualifying members. Thereafter, NASDAQ OMX informed claimants that FINRA would be conducting additional analysis with regard to one category of claims. Upon the completion of this additional analysis, the total value of valid submitted claims was determined to be $44 million. NASDAQ OMX submitted to the SEC a filing that provided a report on the administration of the voluntary accommodation program. After the filing became effective, our liability was reduced to $44 million and payment of valid claims totaling $44 million was made in the fourth quarter of 2013.   

 Non-operating Income and Expenses   

 The following table shows our non-operating income and expenses:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 #Denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%.   

 Total non-operating expenses were $88 million in 2013 compared with $142 million in 2012 and $123 million in 2011. Total non-operating expenses for 2013 primarily include net interest expense of $102 million and asset impairment charges of $14 million, partially offset by a gain on the sale of our available-for-sale investment security in DFM of $30 million. Total non-operating expenses for 2012 primarily include net interest expense of $87 million, asset impairment charges of $40 million and a loss on divestiture of business of $14 million. Total non-operating expenses for 2011 primarily include net interest expense of $108 million and an impairment charge of $18 million on our available-for-sale investment security in DFM.   

 54  

 Table Of Contents   

Interest Income   

 Interest income decreased in both 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. The decreases were primarily due decreases in cash and cash equivalents.   

 Interest Expense   

 Interest expense for 2013 was $111 million, and was comprised of $101 million of interest expense, $3 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of debt discounts, $3 million of non-cash debt issuance amortization expense, and $4 million of other bank and investment-related fees. Interest expense increased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to the issuance of the 2021 Notes in June 2013.   

 Interest expense for 2012 was $97 million, and was comprised of $86 million of interest expense, $4 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of debt discounts, $3 million of non-cash debt issuance amortization expense, and $4 million of other bank and investment-related fees. Interest expense decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 due to lower average outstanding debt obligations in 2012 primarily resulting from the extinguishment of $335 million of our 2013 Convertible Notes in the fourth quarter of 2011, as well as lower average interest rates.   

 See Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations.   

 Gain on Sale of Investment Security   

 In the fourth quarter of 2013, we sold an available-for-sale investment security for $48 million and recorded a gain on the sale of $30 million, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees.   

 Asset Impairment Charges   

 Asset impairment charges of $14 million in 2013 relate to non-cash intangible asset impairment charges related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships ($7 million) and a certain trade name ($7 million). See “Intangible Asset Impairment Charges,” of Note 5, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.   

 In the second quarter of 2012, we recorded non-cash intangible asset impairment charges totaling $28 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with technology ($19 million), customer relationships ($6 million) and a certain trade name ($3 million). See “Intangible Asset Impairment Charges,” of Note 5, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In the first quarter of 2012, we also recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $12 million related to our equity interest in EMCF. See “Equity Method Investments,” of Note 6, “Investments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

 In the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a non-cash, other-than-temporary impairment charge of $18 million related to our available-for-sale investment security in DFM.   

 Loss on Divestiture of Businesses   

 In August 2012, we sold IDCG and recorded a loss of $14 million. See “2012 Divestiture,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” for further discussion.   

 Net Income (Loss) from Unconsolidated Investees   

 Net loss from unconsolidated investees of $2 million in 2013 and $1 million in 2012 and net income from consolidated investees of $2 million in 2011 was related to our share in the earnings and losses of our equity method investments.   

 Tax Matters   

 NASDAQ OMX’s income tax provision was $216 million in 2013 compared with $199 million in 2012 and $190 million in 2011. The overall effective tax rate was 36.0% in 2013, 36.3% in 2012 and 33.2% in 2011. The lower effective tax rate in 2013 when compared to 2012 was primarily due to a reversal of a valuation allowance associated with our available-for-sale investment security in DFM, a shift in the geographic mix of earnings and losses, and a reduction in the tax rate in Sweden. In 2013, we also recorded a lower increase in tax expense associated with deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the impact of changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the U.S. and outside the U.S., compared to the impact recorded in 2012. Partially offsetting the decrease in tax expense is the derecognition of a previously recognized tax benefit as a result of new information received in 2013, as well as expenses associated with investments in certain jurisdictions for which we are not able to recognize a tax benefit. The higher effective tax rate in 2012 when compared to 2011 was primarily due to the impact to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the U.S. and outside the U.S., adjustments related to our 2005 – 2011 tax   

 55  

 Table Of Contents   

return liabilities which resulted in an increase to the tax provision and a shift in the geographic mix of earnings and losses. These increases are partially offset by a permanent tax benefit associated with certain taxable foreign exchange revaluation losses which are not reflected in pre-tax earnings.   

 The effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. These same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets.   

 In order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. Interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense.   

 NASDAQ OMX and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return and applicable state and local income tax returns and non-U.S. income tax returns. Federal income tax returns for the years 2007 through 2010 are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service and we are subject to examination for 2011 and 2012. Several state tax returns are currently under examination by the respective tax authorities for the years 2005 through 2010 and we are subject to examination for 2011 and 2012. Non-U.S. tax returns are subject to examination by the respective tax authorities for the years 2006 through 2012. We anticipate that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2013 will significantly decrease in the next twelve months as we expect to settle certain tax audits. The final outcome of such audits cannot yet be determined. We anticipate that such adjustments will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

  In the fourth quarter of 2010, we received an appeal from the Finnish Tax Authority challenging certain interest expense deductions claimed by NASDAQ OMX in Finland for the year 2008. The appeal also demanded certain penalties be paid with regard to the company’s tax return filing position. In October 2012, the Finnish Appeals Board disagreed with the company’s tax return filing position for years 2009 through 2011, even though the tax return position with respect to this deduction was previously reviewed and approved by the Finnish Tax Authority. NASDAQ OMX has appealed the ruling by the Finnish Appeals Board to the Finnish Administrative Court. Through December 31, 2013, we have recorded tax benefits of $18 million associated with this filing position. Of this amount we have paid $12 million to the Finnish tax authorities. We have also paid $11 million in interest and penalties. In 2014 we will pay $6 million which represents the benefit taken in 2013. We expect the Finnish Administrative Court to agree with our position and, if so, NASDAQ OMX will receive a refund of $29 million.   

 From 2009 through 2012, we recorded tax benefits associated with certain interest expense incurred in Sweden. Our position is supported by a 2011 ruling we received from the Swedish Supreme Administrative Court. However, under new legislation effective January 1, 2013, limitations are imposed on certain forms of interest expense. Since the new legislation is unclear with regards to our ability to continue to claim such interest deductions, NASDAQ OMX has filed an application for an advance tax ruling with the Swedish Tax Council for Advance Tax Rulings. We expect to receive a favorable response from the Swedish Tax Council for Advance Tax Rulings. Since January 1, 2013, we have recorded tax benefits of $16 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, related to this matter. We expect to record recurring quarterly tax benefits of $4 million to $5 million with respect to this issue for the foreseeable future.   

 In December 2012, the Swedish Tax Agency approved our 2010 amended value added tax, or VAT, tax return and we received a cash refund for the amount claimed. In 2013, we filed VAT tax returns for 2011 and 2012 and utilized the same approach which was approved for the 2010 filing. However, even though the VAT return position was previously reviewed and approved by the Swedish Tax Agency, we were informed by the Swedish Tax Agency that our VAT refund claims for 2011 and 2012 are not valid. However, they will not seek reimbursement of the 2010 refund. We will appeal the finding by the Swedish Tax Agency. Through December 31, 2013, we have recorded benefits of $14 million associated with this position.   

 Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests   

 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $1 million in 2013, $3 million in 2012 and $4 million in 2011. The losses in 2012 and 2011 were primarily attributable to noncontrolling interests in IDCG.   

 Non-GAAP Financial Measures   

 In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we also have provided non-GAAP net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. Management uses this non-GAAP information internally, along with U.S. GAAP information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions.   

 We believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparison of results as the items described below do not reflect operating performance. These measures are not in   

 56  

 Table Of Contents   

accordance with, or an alternative to, U.S. GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. We recommend investors review the U.S. GAAP financial measures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. When viewed in conjunction with our U.S. GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than U.S. GAAP measures alone. Our management uses these measures to evaluate operating performance, and management decisions during the reporting period are made by excluding certain items that we believe have less significance on, or do not impact, the day-to-day performance of our business. We understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-GAAP financial measures, such as non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. We use non-GAAP net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share because they more clearly highlight trends in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on U.S. GAAP financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our operating performance. Non-GAAP net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX for the periods presented below is calculated by adjusting net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX for charges or gains related to acquisition and divestiture transactions, integration activities related to acquisitions, other significant infrequent charges or gains and their related income tax effects that are not related to our core business. We do not believe these items are representative of our future operating performance since these charges were not consistent with our normal operating performance.   

 Non-GAAP adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily related to the following:  

 (i) voluntary accommodation program expense of $44 million, (ii) gain on sale of investment security of $30 million related to the sale of our available-for-sale investment security in DFM, (iii) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $22 million reflecting $45 million of merger and strategic initiative costs primarily associated with our acquisitions of eSpeed and the TR Corporate Solutions businesses, partially offset by a credit of $23 million associated with a receivable under a tax sharing agreement with an unrelated party - this credit is offset in item (viii) below, (iv) expenses paid with respect to an SEC matter of $10 million - for further discussion of the SEC matter, see “Litigation,” of Note 18, “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees,” to the consolidated financial statements, (v) asset impairment charges of $14 million related to certain acquired intangible assets associated with customer relationships and a certain trade name, (vi) restructuring charges of $9 million - for further discussion, see Note 3, “Restructuring Charges,” to the consolidated financial statements, (vii) special legal expense of $3 million, (viii) adjustment to the income tax provision of $17 million to reflect these non-GAAP adjustments, and (ix) significant tax adjustments, net of $8 million due to the derecognition of a previously recognized tax benefit and an increase in net deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions.   

 Non-GAAP adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2012 primarily related to the following:   

 (i) income from open positions relating to the operations of the exchange of $11 million, (ii) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $4 million related to recent acquisitions and other strategic initiatives, net of gain on acquisition of NOS Clearing, (iii) loss on divestiture of business of $14 million related to the sale of IDCG, (iv) asset impairment charges of $40 million related to certain acquired intangible assets totaling $28 million as well as an other-than-temporary impairment charge related to our equity method interest in EMCF of $12 million, (v) restructuring charges of $44 million related to workforce reductions of $23 million, facilities-related charges of $10 million, asset impairment charges of $9 million and $2 million of other charges, (vi) special legal expense of $7 million, (vii) adjustment to the income tax provision of $32 million to reflect these non-GAAP adjustments, and (viii) significant tax adjustments, net of $14 million due to the impact to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities resulting from changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions within the U.S. and outside the U.S., adjustments related to our 2005—2011 tax return liabilities which resulted in an increase to the tax provision, partially offset by a permanent tax benefit associated with certain taxable foreign exchange revaluation losses which are not reflected in pre-tax earnings.   

 Non-GAAP adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily related to the following:   

 (i) merger and strategic initiatives costs of $38 million, primarily costs for advisors, bank commitment fees, legal and other professional services, related to our joint proposal to acquire NYSE Euronext, as well as costs related to recent acquisitions and other strategic initiatives, (ii) an asset impairment charge of $18 million related to our available-for-sale investment security in DFM, (iii) debt extinguishment and refinancing charges of $31 million, related to the repayment of the 2013 Convertible Notes and the repayment of our $700 million senior unsecured term loan facility, (iv) an adjustment to the income tax provision of $28 million to reflect these non-GAAP adjustments, and (v) significant tax adjustments, net of $5 million due to the impact of changes in tax laws in certain jurisdictions where NASDAQ OMX operates.  

 57  

 Table Of Contents   

The following table represents reconciliations between U.S. GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share and non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) We determine the tax effect of each item based on the tax rules in the respective jurisdiction where the transaction occurred.   

 Liquidity and Capital Resources   

 While global markets and economic conditions continue to improve from adverse levels experienced during the past several years, investors and lenders remain cautious about the pace of the global economic recovery. This lack of confidence in the prospects for growth could result in sporadic increases in market volatility and lackluster trading volumes, which could in turn affect our ability to obtain additional funding from lenders. Currently, our cost and availability of funding remain healthy.   

 Historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock in the capital markets and by issuing debt obligations. In June 2013, NASDAQ OMX issued the 2021 Notes. We used the majority of the net proceeds from the offering of the 2021 Notes to fund the cash consideration payable by us for the acquisition of eSpeed and related expenses. We used the remaining proceeds from the 2021 Notes for general corporate purposes. As part of the acquisition of eSpeed, NASDAQ OMX has contingent future obligations to issue 992,247 shares of NASDAQ OMX common stock annually approximating certain tax benefits associated with the transaction of $484 million. Such contingent future issuances of NASDAQ OMX common stock will be paid ratably through 2027 if NASDAQ OMX achieves a designated revenue target in each such year. The contingent future issuances of NASDAQ OMX common stock are subject to anti-dilution protections and acceleration upon certain events.  

 In addition to these cash sources, we have a $750 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility) under our senior unsecured five-year credit facility. In May 2013, we borrowed $50 million under the revolving credit commitment. We used cash on hand and a drawdown from the revolving credit commitment to fund the acquisition of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses and related expenses. In the third quarter of 2013, we borrowed an additional $70 million under the revolving credit commitment and used the proceeds and cash on hand to pay down our 2013 Convertible Notes that matured in August 2013. In 2013, we repaid $151 million of the revolving credit commitment. As of December 31, 2013, availability under the revolving credit commitment was $655 million. See “2011 Credit Facility,” of Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. For further discussion of our acquisitions of eSpeed and the TR Corporate Solutions businesses, see “Acquisition of eSpeed for Trading of U.S. Treasuries,” and “Acquisition of the Investor Relations, Public Relations and Multimedia Solutions Businesses of Thomson Reuters,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” to the consolidated financial statements.  

 58  

 Table Of Contents   

In the near term, we expect that our operations will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt repayments, any share repurchases, and any dividends. Working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $363 million at December 31, 2013, compared with $474 million at December 31, 2012, a decrease of $111 million primarily due to a decline in cash and cash equivalents and financial investments at fair value.   

 Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include:   

 •deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments;   

 •changes in our working capital requirements; and   

 •an increase in our expenses.   

 Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include:   

 •operating covenants contained in our credit facility that limit our total borrowing capacity;   

 •increases in interest rates applicable to our floating rate loans under our credit facility;   

 •credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt;   

 •a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and   

 •volatility in the public debt and equity markets.   

 In connection with an increase in indebtedness to finance the acquisition of eSpeed, S&P affirmed the credit rating of NASDAQ OMX at BBB and NASDAQ OMX Clearing AB at A+ and placed both NASDAQ OMX and NASDAQ OMX Clearing AB on negative outlook. Moody’s affirmed the credit rating of NASDAQ OMX at Baa3.   

 The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our financial assets, debt obligations, clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements, and cash flows on our liquidity and capital resources.   

 Financial Assets   

 The following table summarizes our financial assets:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash   

 Cash and cash equivalents include cash in banks and all non-restricted highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. The balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. As of December 31, 2013, our cash and cash equivalents of $425 million were primarily invested in money market funds. In the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2013 decreased $72 million from December 31, 2012 primarily due to net cash used in investing activities, partially offset by net cash provided by operating activities and financing activities. See “Cash Flow Analysis” below for further discussion.   

 Current restricted cash, which was $84 million as of December 31, 2013 and $85 million as of December 31, 2012, is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements and is classified as restricted cash in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, current restricted cash primarily includes cash held for regulatory purposes at NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and NOS Clearing. Non-current restricted cash of $25 million at December 31, 2012 was segregated for NASDAQ OMX Commodities Clearing Company, or NOCC, to improve its liquidity position and was not available for general use. As a result of a strategic alliance with Natural Gas Exchange Inc., or NGX, this cash was no longer needed for liquidity purposes and was released from NOCC. See Note 16, “Clearing Operations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

 Repatriation of Cash   

 Our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $186 million as of December 31, 2013 and $198 million as of December 31, 2012. The remaining balance held in the U.S. totaled $239 million as of December 31, 2013 and $299 million as of December 31, 2012.   

 59  

 Table Of Contents   

Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the U.S. are used to finance our international operations and are generally considered to be indefinitely reinvested. It is not our current intent to change this position. However, the majority of cash held outside the U.S. is available for repatriation, but under current law, could subject us to additional U.S. income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits.   

 Share Repurchase Program   

 In the third quarter of 2012, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of our outstanding common stock. These purchases may be made from time to time at prevailing market prices in open market purchases, privately-negotiated transactions, block purchase techniques or otherwise, as determined by our management. The purchases are funded from existing cash balances. The share repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time. In April 2013, we announced that the share repurchase program is temporarily suspended.  

 During 2013, we repurchased 321,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $31.12, for an aggregate purchase price of $10 million. The shares repurchased under the share repurchase program are available for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2013, the remaining amount for share repurchases under the program authorized in the third quarter of 2012 was $215 million.   

 Cash Dividends on Common Stock   

 In 2013, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.13 per share on our outstanding common stock. See “Cash Dividends on Common Stock,” of Note 13, “NASDAQ OMX Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the dividends.   

 In January 2014, the board of directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per share on our outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on March 28, 2014 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 14, 2014. Future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by the board of directors.  

 Financial Investments, at Fair Value   

 Our financial investments, at fair value totaled $162 million as of December 31, 2013 and $223 million as of December 31, 2012 and are primarily comprised of trading securities, mainly Swedish government debt securities. Of these securities, $140 million as of December 31, 2013 and $134 million as of December 31, 2012 are assets utilized to meet regulatory capital requirements primarily for clearing operations at NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing. At December 31, 2012 this balance also included our available-for-sale investment security in DFM valued at $22 million. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we sold this investment security and recognized a gain on the sale of $30 million, which is included in gain on sale of investment security in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2013.  The $30 million gain represents cash proceeds received of $48 million less the adjusted cost basis of $18 million. See Note 6, “Investments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our trading securities and available-for-sale investment security.  

 Debt Obligations   

 The following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 60  

 Table Of Contents   

In addition to the $750 million revolving credit commitment, we also have other credit facilities related to our clearinghouses in order to meet liquidity and regulatory requirements. At December 31, 2013, these credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily Swedish Krona, totaled $312 million ($219 million in available liquidity and $93 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), of which $11 million was utilized. At December 31, 2012, these credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily Swedish Krona, totaled $310 million ($217 million in available liquidity and $93 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized.   

 At December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations.   

 See Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations.   

 Clearing and Broker-Dealer Net Capital Requirements   

 Clearing Operations Regulatory Capital Requirements   

 We are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for our clearing operations for NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing and NOS Clearing. The level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. At December 31, 2013, our required regulatory capital consisted of $94 million of Swedish government debt securities, that are included in financial investments, at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and $68 million of cash that is included in restricted cash in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

 In addition, we have available credit facilities of $93 million which can be utilized to satisfy our regulatory capital requirements. See “Debt Obligations” above for further discussion.   

 Broker-Dealer Net Capital Requirements   

 Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services, NASDAQ Options Services and Execution Access, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. These requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. At December 31, 2013, Nasdaq Execution Services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $15.7 million, or $15.4 million in excess of the minimum amount required. At December 31, 2013, NASDAQ Options Services also was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $3.5 million, or $3.2 million in excess of the minimum amount required. At December 31, 2013, Execution Access was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.8 million and had total net capital of $43.2 million, or $42.4 million in excess of the minimum amount required.  

 Other Capital Requirements   

 NASDAQ Options Services also is required to maintain a $2 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with The Options Clearing Corporation, or OCC.   

 Cash Flow Analysis   

 The following tables summarize the changes in cash flows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 #Denotes a variance greater than 100.0%.   

 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities   

 The following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013:   

 •Net income of $384 million, plus:   

 61  

 Table Of Contents   

• Items to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities of $177 million comprised primarily of $122 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $47 million of share-based compensation expense, deferred income taxes of $28 million and $14 million of asset retirements and impairment charges, partially offset by gain on sale of investment security of $30 million and excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $16 million.  

 •Increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $51 million primarily due to recent acquisitions, the timing of payments and an increase in interest payable related to our debt obligations.  

 •Increase in accrued personnel costs of $39 million primarily due to our 2013 incentive compensation accrual and an increase in employee headcount, partially offset by the payment of our 2012 incentive compensation in the first quarter of 2013.   

 Partially offset by a:   

 •Increase in accounts receivable, net of $55 million primarily due to recent acquisitions and the timing of collections and activity.   

 •Decrease in Section 31 fees payable to the SEC of $15 million primarily due to a decrease in Section 31 fee rates.  

 The following items impacted our net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2012:   

 •Net income of $349 million, plus:   

 • Items to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities of $251 million comprised primarily of $104 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $46 million of share-based compensation expense, $40 million related to asset retirements and impairment charges, $16 million of restructuring charges, deferred income taxes of $16 million, and a loss on divestiture of business of $14 million.   

 •Decrease in other assets of $71 million primarily due to the release of restricted cash resulting from the sale of IDCG.   

 Partially offset by a:   

 •Increase in receivables, net of $30 million primarily due to an increase in receivables across multiple businesses relating to timing of collections and activity, partially offset by a decrease in income tax receivables.   

 •Decrease in accrued personnel costs of $27 million primarily due to the payment of our 2011 incentive compensation in the first quarter of 2012, partially offset by the 2012 accrual.   

 •Decrease in other liabilities of $17 million primarily reflecting the release of escrow amounts related to certain acquisitions and the utilization of sublease reserve balances.   

 •Decrease in Section 31 fees payable to the SEC of $9 million primarily due to lower dollar value traded on the NASDAQ and NASDAQ OMX BX trading systems, partially offset by higher Section 31 fee rates in 2012.   

 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities   

 Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily consisted of cash utilized to fund the acquisitions of eSpeed and the TR Corporate Solutions businesses, purchases of trading securities, purchases of property and equipment, and cash paid for equity and cost method investments, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities and proceeds from the sale of our available-for-sale investment security.   

 Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 primarily consisted of purchases of trading securities, cash used for acquisitions and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities.   

 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities   

 Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily consisted of proceeds of $895 million received from the issuance of the 2021 Notes and a partial utilization under our revolving credit commitment, partially offset by payments of debt obligation totaling $289 million consisting of repayment of our 2013 Convertible Notes totaling $93 million, repayment of $151 million on our revolving credit commitment and required quarterly principal payments totaling $45 million made on our $450 million funded term loan, or the 2016 Term Loan, and $87 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock.  

 Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 primarily consisted of $275 million of cash used in connection with our share repurchase programs, repayment of debt obligations of $145 million consisting of an optional prepayment of $100 million on our revolving credit commitment and required quarterly principal payments totaling $45 million on the 2016 Term Loan, and $65 million related to cash dividends paid on our common stock.   

 For further discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestiture,” to the consolidated financial statements. For further discussion of our debt obligations, see Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements. For further   

 62  

 Table Of Contents   

discussion of our share repurchase program, see “Share Repurchase Program,” of Note 13, “NASDAQ OMX Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements.  

 Contractual Obligations and Contingent Commitments   

 NASDAQ OMX has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. The following table shows these contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)Our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. At December 31, 2013, an interest rate of 1.54% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2016 Term Loan and an interest rate of 1.34% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on our revolving credit commitment. All other debt obligations were calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount at December 31, 2013. See Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.   

 (2)We lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. Some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs.  

 (3)In connection with our acquisitions of FTEN, Glide Technologies and the index business of Mergent, Inc., including Indxis, we entered into escrow agreements to secure the payment of post-closing adjustments and to ensure other closing conditions. At December 31, 2013, these agreements provide for future payments of $12 million and are included in other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, other obligations include future transition service agreement payments associated with the acquisition of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses and estimated amounts related to the purchase of the remaining 28% ownership interest in BWise.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

 Default Fund Contributions and Margin Deposits Received for Clearing Operations   

 Default Fund Contributions   

 Clearing members’ eligible contributions may include cash and non-cash contributions. Cash contributions are invested by NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing in accordance with its investment policies and are included in default funds and margin deposits in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, non-cash contributions, which include highly rated government debt securities that must meet the investment policies of NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing and NOS Clearing, as well as pledged cash, are pledged assets that are not recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing and NOS Clearing do not take legal ownership of these assets and the risks and rewards remain with the clearing members. These pledged assets are held at a nominee account in NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing’s name or NOS Clearing’s name for the benefit of the clearing members and are immediately accessible by NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing or NOS Clearing in the event of default. The pledged asset balances may fluctuate over time due to changes in the amount of deposits required and whether members choose to provide cash or non-cash contributions. See Note 16, “Clearing Operations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our clearing operations and default fund contributions.   

 Margin Deposits Received for Clearing Operations   

 NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing and NOS Clearing   

 NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing and NOS Clearing each require all clearing members to provide collateral, which may consist of cash and eligible securities, in a pledged bank account and/or an on-demand guarantee, to guarantee performance on the clearing members’ open positions, or initial margin. In addition, clearing members must also provide collateral to cover the daily margin call as needed, which is in addition to the initial margin. Pledged collateral is maintained at a third-party custodian bank or deposit bank account for the benefit of the clearing members and is immediately accessible by NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing or NOS Clearing in the event of default. The pledged margin deposits are not recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as all risks and rewards of   

 63  

 Table Of Contents   

collateral ownership, including interest, belong to the counterparty. Clearing member pledged collateral related to our clearing operations was $9.5 billion as of December 31, 2013 and $6.7 billion as of December 31, 2012. In April 2013, NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing implemented a new collateral management process. With the implementation of this collateral management process, NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing now maintains and manages all cash deposits related to margin collateral and records these cash deposits in default funds and margin deposits in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as both a current asset and current liability. The collateral procedures related to eligible pledged assets remain the same.  

 NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing and NOS Clearing mark-to-market all outstanding contracts at least daily, requiring payment from clearing members whose positions have lost value and making payments to clearing members whose positions have gained value. The mark-to-market process helps identify any clearing members that may not be able to satisfy their financial obligations in a timely manner which helps NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing and NOS Clearing manage the risk of a clearing member defaulting due to exceptionally large losses. In the event of a default, NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing or NOS Clearing can access these margin deposits to cover the defaulting member’s losses.   

 U.S. Clearing   

 In the third quarter of 2013, NOCC entered into a strategic alliance with NGX. Together NGX and NOCC provide a solution for transacting in physical energy in the U.S. NGX offers trading and clearing services for the alliance and NOCC contributes account management, product development, and scheduling resources. Since NGX is now the counterparty to all transactions and clearing arrangements, NOCC transferred all positions to NGX, returned collateral to customers, terminated its letters of credit from banks, and cancelled all contracts with customers.  

 Prior to the alliance with NGX, NOCC, through riskless principal trading and clearing, was the legal counterparty for each customer position traded and NOCC thereby guaranteed the fulfillment of each of its customer’s transactions.  

 Market participants at NOCC were required to meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk that they became unable to satisfy their obligations and provided collateral to cover the daily margin call as needed. Customer pledged cash collateral held by NOCC, which was $33 million at December 31, 2012, was included in default funds and margin deposits as both a current asset and current liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as the risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest income, belonged to NOCC.   

 Guarantees Issued and Credit Facilities Available   

 In addition to the collateral pledged by clearing members discussed above, we have obtained financial guarantees and credit facilities which are guaranteed by us through counter indemnities, to provide further liquidity and default protection. Financial guarantees issued to us totaled $20 million at December 31, 2013 and $7 million at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2013, credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily Swedish Krona, totaled $312 million ($219 million in available liquidity and $93 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), $11 million of which was utilized. At December 31, 2012, these facilities totaled $310 million ($217 million in available liquidity and $93 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized.   

 Execution Access has a clearing arrangement with Cantor Fitzgerald. As of December 31, 2013, we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to Cantor Fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. These deposits are recorded in other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. Some of the trading activity in Execution Access is cleared by Cantor Fitzgerald through FICC, and the balance is cleared non-FICC. Execution Access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through FICC. Counterparty risk of clients exists for Execution Access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. All of Execution Access’ obligations under the clearing arrangement with Cantor Fitzgerald are guaranteed by NASDAQ OMX. Some of the non-FICC counterparties are required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to Execution Access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk.   

 We believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies. Accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for these arrangements.   

 Leases   

 We lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. Some of our lease agreements contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs.   

 Other Guarantees   

 We have provided other guarantees of $16 million as of December 31, 2013 and $18 million at December 31, 2012. These guarantees primarily related to obligations for our rental and leasing contracts. In addition, for certain Market Technology contracts, we have provided performance guarantees of $2 million as of December 31, 2013 and $5 million at December 31, 2012 related to the delivery of software technology and support services. We have received financial guarantees from various financial institutions to support these guarantees.   

 64  

 Table Of Contents   

We believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. Accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for the above guarantees.  

 In connection with the launch of NASDAQ OMX NLX, we have entered into agreements with certain members which may require us to make payments if certain financial goals are achieved. Since these payments are not currently probable and the amount cannot be quantified as of December 31, 2013, no contingent liability is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for these payments.   

 Routing Brokerage Activities   

 Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services, provide guarantees to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under their standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. If a member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to a clearinghouse or exchange, other members would be required to meet its shortfalls. To mitigate these performance risks, the exchanges and clearinghouses often require members to post collateral, as well as meet certain minimum financial standards. Nasdaq Execution Services’ and NASDAQ Options Services’ maximum potential liability under these arrangements cannot be quantified. However, we believe that the potential for Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. Accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for these arrangements.  

 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

 Market risk represents the potential for losses that may result from changes in the market value of a financial instrument due to changes in market conditions. As a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. We are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities.   

 We have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. We identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis.   

 We perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. We may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes.   

 Interest Rate Risk   

 The following table summarizes our financial assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk as of December 31, 2013:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Represents total contractual debt obligations and amounts related to default fund contributions and margin deposits.   

 (2)  Annualized impact of a 100 basis point parallel adverse shift in the yield curve.   

 (3)  Includes floating rate and fixed interest rates with a maturity or reset date due within 12 months.   

 (4)  Financial assets primarily consist of Swedish government debt securities, which are classified as trading investment securities, with an average duration of 1.3 years.   

 We are exposed to cash flow risk on floating rate financial assets of $2,592 million and financial liabilities of $2,405 million at December 31, 2013. When interest rates on financial assets of floating rate positions decrease, net interest income decreases. When interest rates on financial liabilities of floating rate positions increase, net interest expense increases. Based on December 31, 2013 positions, each 1.0% adverse change in interest rate would impact annual pre-tax income by $3 million related to our floating rate positions.   

 We are exposed to price risk on our fixed rate financial assets, which totaled $40 million at December 31, 2013 and have an average duration of 1.3 years. The net effect of a parallel shift of 1.0% of the interest rate curve, taking into account the change in fair value and the increase in interest income, would have an immaterial impact on annual pre-tax income related to our fixed rate positions.   

 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk   

 As a leading global exchange group, we are subject to foreign currency translation risk. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 34.8% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 29.0% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Swedish Krona, Euro, Norwegian Krone, Danish Krone and British Pound. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 34.8% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage,   

 65  

 Table Of Contents   

clearance and exchange fees and 26.5% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Swedish Krona, Euro, Norwegian Krone and Danish Krone.   

 Our primary exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 is presented in the following table:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 #Represents multiple foreign currency rates.   

 Our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries’ net assets or equity to U.S. dollars. Substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our results of operations as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into U.S. dollars for consolidated reporting. The translation of foreign subsidiaries’ non-U.S. dollar balance sheets into U.S. dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

 Our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2013 is presented in the following table:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Includes goodwill of $3,510 million and intangible assets, net of $1,063 million.   

 Credit Risk   

 Credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. We are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. The financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. Credit risk   

 66  

 Table Of Contents   

associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties.   

 Our subsidiaries Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the routing services they provide for our trading customers. System trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of our cash equity exchanges are routed by Nasdaq Execution Services for clearing to the National Securities Clearing Corporation, or NSCC. In this function, Nasdaq Execution Services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving Nasdaq Execution Services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. In this interim period, Nasdaq Execution Services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before the clearinghouse enters the transaction. Once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, Nasdaq Execution Services is legally removed from risk. System trades in derivative contracts for the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by NASDAQ Options Services, as a member of the OCC. For these trades, novation is done at the end of the trading day, and settlement is complete by 10:00 am on the following day.   

 Pursuant to the rules of the NSCC and Nasdaq Execution Services’ clearing agreement, Nasdaq Execution Services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. Pursuant to the rules of the OCC and NASDAQ Options Services’ clearing agreement, NASDAQ Options Services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. Adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. However, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as Nasdaq Execution Services’ and NASDAQ Options Services’ customers are not permitted to trade on margin and NSCC and OCC rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with NSCC and OCC. Historically, neither Nasdaq Execution Services nor NASDAQ Options Services has incurred a liability due to a customer’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. Credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions.   

 Execution Access has a clearing arrangement with Cantor Fitzgerald. As of December 31, 2013, we have contributed $19 million of clearing deposits to Cantor Fitzgerald in connection with this clearing arrangement. These deposits are recorded in other current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Some of the trading activity in Execution Access is cleared by Cantor Fitzgerald through FICC, and the balance is cleared non-FICC. Execution Access assumes the counterparty risk of clients that do not clear through FICC. Counterparty risk of clients exists for Execution Access between the trade date and settlement date of the individual transactions, which is one business day. All of Execution Access’ obligations under the clearing arrangement with Cantor Fitzgerald are guaranteed by NASDAQ OMX. Some of the non-FICC counterparties will be required to post collateral, provide principal letters, or provide other forms of credit enhancement to Execution Access for the purpose of mitigating counterparty risk.   

 We are exposed to credit risk through our clearing operations with NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing and NOS Clearing. See “Default Fund Contributions and Margin Deposits Received for Clearing Operations,” of “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements,” above, as well as Note 16, “Clearing Operations” for further discussion.   

 We also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. Our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. On an ongoing basis, we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties’ creditworthiness.  

 Credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.  

 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   

 The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The following critical accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risk and uncertainties. Management’s estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.   

 Revenue Recognition   

 Listing Services Revenues   

 U.S. Listing Services   

 67  

 Table Of Contents   

Listing Services revenues in the U.S. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. Annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. However, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. Unamortized balances are recorded as deferred revenue in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

 Technology Solutions Revenues   

 Market Technology Revenues  

 Revenues primarily consist of software, license and support revenues, change request and advisory revenues, and software as a service revenues.   

 For most solutions, we enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. In order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of VSOE of fair value for each element. When VSOE for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered.  

 We also enter into revolving subscription agreements which allow customers to connect to our servers to access certain services. These revenues are recognized ratably over the subscription term.   

 Software, license and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by NASDAQ OMX that are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. After we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services, such as facility management. Facility management revenues are derived when NASDAQ OMX assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. Revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered, unless VSOE can be established for each element of the contract. We record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

 Software, license and support revenues also include delivery project revenues which are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by NASDAQ OMX. The majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. We may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. Under contract accounting, when VSOE for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. We record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

 Change request and advisory revenues and software as a service revenues do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized as revenues when earned.   

 Goodwill and Related Impairment   

 Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a business acquired. Goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of each reporting unit of the acquired company. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amount may be impaired, such as changes in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. For purposes of performing our goodwill impairment test, our six reporting units are the Market Services segment, the Listing Services segment, the two businesses comprising the Information Services segment: Market Data Products and Index Licensing and Services, and the two businesses comprising the Technology Solutions segment: Corporate Solutions and Market Technology. We test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of October 1. In conducting the 2013 annual impairment test for goodwill, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test described in Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 350, “Intangibles–Goodwill and Other,” or ASC Topic 350. The more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is performed for the appropriate reporting units. Otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and the two-step quantitative test for goodwill impairment is not performed.   

 68  

 Table Of Contents   

In conducting the qualitative assessment, we analyzed actual and projected growth trends for each reporting unit, as well as historical performance versus plan and the results of prior quantitative tests performed. Additionally, each reporting unit assesses critical areas that may impact their business, including macroeconomic conditions and the related impact, market related exposures, competitive changes, new or discontinued products, changes in key personnel, and other potential risks to their projected financial results.   

 If required, the quantitative goodwill impairment test is a two-step process performed at the reporting unit level. First, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to its corresponding carrying amount, including goodwill. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of discounted cash flow valuation, which incorporates assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, incorporating relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. The estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by our board of directors. If the first step results in the carrying amount exceeding the fair value of the reporting unit, then a second step must be completed in order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment that should be recorded, if any. In the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill is determined by allocating the reporting unit’s fair value to all of its assets and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. The implied fair value of the goodwill that results from the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for any difference.   

 For our annual test of goodwill impairment in 2013, we considered the results of our quantitative test performed in January 2013, due to the realignment of our reportable segments, which indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of its carrying amount. We also considered future financial projections, current market conditions, and any changes in the carrying amount of the reporting units.   

 At the time of our 2013 annual impairment test, our goodwill balance was $6,191 million, of which $3,439 million was attributable to our Market Services segment, $137 million was attributable to our Listing Services segment, $2,021 million was attributable to our Information Services segment and $594 million was attributable to our Technology Solutions segment.   

 We utilized the qualitative screen for our Listing Services, Market Data Products, Index Licensing and Services and Market Technology reporting units, as the excesses of their fair values over their respective carrying amounts were significant. In conducting the qualitative assessment for these four reporting units, we evaluated future financial projections by management to determine if there were any changes in the key inputs used to determine the fair values of each reporting unit. We also considered the qualitative factors in ASC Topic 350, as well as other relevant events and circumstances. Based on the results of the qualitative assessment for each reporting unit, we concluded based on a preponderance of positive indicators and the weight of such indicators that the fair values of our Listing Services, Market Data Products, Index Licensing and Services and Market Technology reporting units are more likely than not greater than their respective carrying amounts and as a result, quantitative analyses were not needed. Therefore, no further testing of goodwill for impairment was performed for these reporting units for the year ended December 31, 2013.   

 Due to declining cash equity trading volumes and the purchase of eSpeed in June 2013, we bypassed the qualitative assessment for the Market Services reporting unit. In addition, due to the acquisition of the TR Corporate Solutions businesses in May 2013, we bypassed the qualitative assessment for the Corporate Solutions reporting unit. We performed step one of the quantitative goodwill impairment test for both of these reporting units and determined that the fair values of our Market Services and Corporate Solutions reporting units exceeded their carrying amounts. As a result, no goodwill impairment was recorded. The fair value of our Market Services and Corporate Solutions reporting units was determined using a combination of two equally weighted valuation methods, a market approach and an income approach. The market approach estimates fair value by applying revenues, earnings and cash flow multiples to the Market Services and Corporate Solutions reporting units’ operating performance. The multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics to our Market Services and Corporate Solutions reporting units. The market approach requires management’s judgment to determine several valuation inputs, including the selection of comparable companies and control premium. The control premium is based on recent transactions in the marketplace. Under the income approach, we estimated future cash flows of our Market Services and Corporate Solutions reporting units based on internally generated forecasts of future financial performance. We determined a long-term growth rate for the terminal year period based on historical and expected inflation rates as well as management’s estimate of the long-term growth of the business. We then discounted the projected cash flows using a weighted average cost of capital of 11.1% for Market Services and 11.7% for Corporate Solutions.   

 The fair value of our Market Services reporting unit exceeded its carrying amount by less than 10%. Holding all other assumptions constant at the testing date, a 5% decrease in the estimated free cash flows of this reporting unit would not reduce the estimated fair value below the carrying amount. However, holding all other assumptions constant, a 35 basis point increase in the discount rate used in the testing of this reporting unit would reduce the estimated fair value below its carrying amount by 1%, indicating a possible impairment. Because step two of the impairment test was not required for this reporting unit, it is not possible at this time to determine if a decrease in our valuation inputs would result in an impairment charge, or if such a charge would be material.   

 69  

 Table Of Contents   

The fair value of our Corporate Solutions reporting unit also exceeded its carrying amount by less than 10%. Holding all other assumptions constant at the testing date, a 5% decrease in the estimated free cash flows of this reporting unit would not reduce the estimated fair value below the carrying amount. However, holding all other assumptions constant, a 20 basis point increase in the discount rate used in the testing of this reporting unit would reduce the estimated fair value below its carrying amount by 1%, indicating a possible impairment. Because step two of the impairment test was not required for this reporting unit, it is not possible at this time to determine if a decrease in our valuation inputs would result in an impairment charge, or if such a charge would be material.   

 Although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, the determination of certain valuation inputs is subject to management’s judgment. Changes in these inputs could materially affect the results of our impairment review. If our forecasts of cash flows generated by our Market Services and Corporate Solutions reporting units or other key inputs are negatively revised in the future, the estimated fair value of the Market Services and Corporate Solutions reporting units would be adversely impacted, potentially leading to an impairment in the future that could materially affect our operating results.   

 Subsequent to our annual impairment test, no indications of an impairment were identified.   

 Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets and Related Impairment   

 Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount. The fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the relief from royalty approach for trade names and the Greenfield Approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses, both of which incorporate assumptions regarding future revenue projections and discount rates. Similar to goodwill impairment testing, we test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using carrying amounts as of October 1. In conducting the 2013 annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we first performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset was less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test described in ASC Topic 350. The more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, then the quantitative test for indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment is performed for the appropriate intangible assets. If the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference.   

 Other Long-Lived Assets and Related Impairment   

 We also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. We evaluate our equity and cost method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. In addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. Any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results.   

 Amortization Periods of Intangible Assets with Finite-Lives   

 Intangible assets, net, primarily include exchange and clearing registrations, customer relationships, trade names, licenses and technology. Intangible assets with finite-lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their average estimated useful lives as follows:   

 •Technology: 2—5 years   

 •Customer relationships: 9—30 years   

 •Other: 2—10 years   

 The estimated useful life of developed and new technology is based on the likely duration of benefits to be derived from the technology. We consider such factors as the migration cycle for re-platforming existing technologies and the development of future generations of technology. We also give consideration to the pace of the technological changes in the industries in which we sell our products.   

 70  

 Table Of Contents   

The estimated useful life of customer relationships is determined based on an analysis of the historical attrition rates of customers and an analysis of the legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic, or other factors that limit the useful life of customer relationships.   

 See Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures,” and Note 5, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of intangible assets.   

 Income Taxes   

 Estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. Management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. Interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense.   

 In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.   

 In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. While we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result.   

 Pension and Post-Retirement Benefits   

 Pension and other post-retirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is developed using actuarial valuations. We assess our pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. In evaluating these assumptions, we consider many factors, including evaluation of the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rate, retirement age assumption, our historical assumptions compared with actual results and analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations. See Note 11, “Employee Benefits,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.   

 Discount rates used for pension and other post-retirement benefit plan calculations are evaluated annually and modified to reflect the prevailing market rates at the measurement date of a high-quality fixed-income debt instrument portfolio that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligations as they come due. Actuarial assumptions are based upon management’s best estimates and judgment.   

 The expected rate of return on plan assets for our U.S. pension plans represents our long-term assessment of return expectations which may change based on significant shifts in economic and financial market conditions. The long-term rate of return on plan assets is derived from return assumptions based on targeted allocations for various asset classes. While we consider the pension plans’ recent performance and other economic growth and inflation factors, which are supported by long-term historical data, the return expectations for the targeted asset categories represents a long-term prospective return.   

 Share-Based Compensation   

 The accounting for share-based compensation requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees based on estimated fair values. Share-based awards, or equity awards, include employee stock options, restricted stock and performance share units, or PSUs. Restricted stock awards generally refer to restricted stock units.   

 We estimate the fair value of PSUs granted under our total shareholder return, or TSR, program using the Monte Carlo simulation model, as these awards contain a market condition. Assumptions used in the Monte Carlo simulation model include the weighted average risk-free rate and the expected volatility. The risk-free interest rate for periods within the expected life of the award is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. We use historic volatility for PSU awards issued under the TSR program, as implied volatility data could not be obtained for all the companies in the peer groups used for relative performance measurement within the TSR program.  

 See Note 12, “Share-Based Compensation,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.   

 71  

 Table Of Contents   

Software Costs   

 We capitalize and amortize significant purchased application software and operational software that are an integral part of computer hardware on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, generally five years. We expense other purchased software as incurred.   

 Certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. We capitalize internal and third party costs incurred in connection with the development of internal use software.   

 Under our Technology Solutions segment, costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process are capitalized after the product has reached technological feasibility. Technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detail program design or, in its absence, completion. Thereafter, all software production costs shall be capitalized. Prior to reaching technological feasibility, all costs are charged to expense. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the product and are included in depreciation and amortization expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

 Foreign Currency Translation   

 Foreign denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured into the functional currency at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date through the income statement. Gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are remeasured using the rates on the dates on which those elements are recognized during the period, and are included in general, administrative and other expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

 Translation gains or losses resulting from translating our subsidiaries’ financial statements from the local functional currency to the reporting currency, net of tax, are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are recorded at the date the transaction occurs or at an applicable average rate.   

 Deferred taxes are not provided on cumulative translation adjustments where we expect earnings of a foreign subsidiary to be indefinitely reinvested. The income tax effect of currency translation adjustments related to foreign subsidiaries that are not considered indefinitely reinvested is recorded as a component of deferred taxes with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

 Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Pronouncements   

 For the year ended December 31, 2013, we have not adopted any new accounting pronouncements that had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In addition, we have reviewed all recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements and do not believe the future adoption of any such pronouncements will have a material impact on our financial position or results of its operations.  

 Summarized Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 72  

 Table Of Contents   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.