PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

We operate in the media industry and are one of the leading global developers of lifestyle-oriented content for linear and interactive video platforms, including television and the internet, with respected, high-profile brands. Our businesses engage audiences and efficiently serve advertisers by delivering entertaining and highly-useful content that focuses on specifically-defined topics of interest. 

We seek to engage audiences worldwide that are highly-desirable to advertisers with entertaining and informative lifestyle content that is produced for television, the internet and alternative media platforms. We intend to expand and enhance our lifestyle brands through creating popular new programming content, extending distribution on various platforms, such as mobile devices, streaming services, tablets and video-on-demand, licensing of content to third parties and of brands for consumer products and increasing our international footprint. 

The Company was incorporated under the law of the State of Ohio on October 27, 2007 in connection with our July 1, 2008 spin-off from The E.W. Scripps Company.  

On July 1, 2015, we completed the acquisition of N-Vision B.V. (“N-Vision”, the “Acquisition”), the majority owner of TVN, a Polish media company, which operates a portfolio of free-to-air and pay-TV lifestyle and entertainment networks, including TVN, TVN24, TVN Style, TTV, TVN Turbo, TVN24 Biznes i Świat. Also included in TVN is TVN Media, an advertising sales house. 

In September 2015, we purchased the remaining outstanding shares of TVN through a tender offer (the “Tender Offer”) and subsequent squeeze-out (the “Squeeze-out”). Together, the Acquisition, Tender Offer and Squeeze-out are referred to herein as the Transactions (the “Transactions”) (see Note 4 – Acquisitions). As a result of the Transactions, the international operating segment which was previously not significant, has become significant. Therefore, the Company now has two reportable segments: U.S. Networks, previously referred to as Lifestyle Media, and International Networks. As a result of these changes to our reportable segments, certain prior period segment results have been recast to reflect the current presentation. 

4 

U.S. Networks includes our six domestic television networks: HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and Great American Country. Additionally, U.S. Networks includes websites associated with the aforementioned television brands and other internet and mobile businesses serving home, food, travel and other lifestyle-related categories. Food Network and Cooking Channel are included in the Food Network Partnership, of which we own 68.7 percent. We also own 65.0 percent of Travel Channel. The call option for the 35.0 percent interest in Travel Channel became exercisable on December 15, 2015, and on January 6, 2016, we notified the non-controlling interest owner of our intention to execute our call option, as a result of which we will own 100.0 percent of Travel Channel (see Note 24 – Subsequent Events). Each of our networks is distributed by cable and satellite distributors, telecommunication service providers and certain non-linear service providers.  

International Networks includes the lifestyle-oriented networks available in the United Kingdom (“UK”), other European markets, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), Asia Pacific (“APAC”) and Latin America. Additionally, International Networks includes TVN. 

As used in our consolidated financial statements, Corporate and Other includes the results of businesses not separately identified as reportable segments for external financial reporting purposes and will continue to be disclosed separately from the results of U.S. Networks and International Networks. 

Our businesses earn revenue from advertising sales, affiliate fees and ancillary sales, including licensing of our content to third parties and of brands for consumer products. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

Our Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) evaluates the operating performance of our businesses and makes decisions about the allocation of resources to the businesses using a non-GAAP measure we call segment profit. Segment profit excludes interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, divested operating units, investment results and certain other items included in net income determined in accordance with GAAP. 

Depreciation and amortization charges are the result of decisions made in prior periods regarding the allocation of resources and are, therefore, excluded from segment profit. Additionally, financing, tax structure and divestiture decisions are excluded from the performance measure of our businesses, enabling us to evaluate operating performance based upon current economic conditions and decisions made by the managers of those businesses in the current period. 

U.S. Networks 

U.S. Networks generates revenues principally from advertising sales and affiliate fees paid for the right to distribute our programming content. U.S. Networks also earns revenue from the licensing of content to third parties and of brands for consumer products, such as videos, books, kitchenware and tools. 

Advertising revenue generated by our domestic television networks depends on viewership ratings, as determined by Nielsen Media Research and other third-party research companies, and advertising rates paid by advertisers for delivery of advertisements to certain viewer demographics. Revenue from advertising is subject to seasonality, market-based variations and general economic conditions. Advertising revenue is typically highest in the second and fourth quarters and can fluctuate relative to the popularity of specific programming, time of day an advertisement is run and seasonal demand of advertisers.  

Revenues from affiliates are negotiated with individual distributors and can typically result in multi-year carriage agreements that contain scheduled rate increases. Affiliate fees we receive are determined by the number of subscribers with access to the programming of our various networks. 

Programming expenses, employee costs and marketing and advertising expenses are the primary operating costs of U.S. Networks. Marketing and advertising expenses are incurred to support brand-building initiatives at all of our networks. 

Our lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses are focused on the internal development and acquisition of interactive media that is intended to diversify sources of revenue and enhance our competitive advantage as a leading provider of home, food, travel and lifestyle content.  

The lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses consist of multiple websites, including, but not limited to, our six network-branded websites, HGTV.com, Foodnetwork.com, Travelchannel.com, DIYNetwork.com, Cookingchanneltv.com and GACTV.com. In addition to serving as home websites for the television networks, the websites provide informational and instructional content on specific topics within their respective lifestyle content categories. Revenue generated by our lifestyle interactive businesses is derived  

5 

primarily from the sale of display, banner and video advertising. The Company also operates uLive, a digital brand launched in 2014 that distributes video programming and expands our lifestyle content into new categories, such as parenting, beauty and wellness. uLive presents original video, as well as content aggregated from numerous partners, and generates revenue by delivering advertising to viewers of the programming. All of our interactive businesses benefit from archived television network programming, of which approximately 94.3 percent is owned by us. Our ownership of programming enables us to efficiently and economically repurpose it for use on websites and mobile platforms, including video‑on‑demand and streaming services. 

The lifestyle-oriented websites accounted for approximately 5.0 percent of the U.S. Networks’ total operating revenues in 2015. The strategic focus of the lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses is to grow advertising revenues by increasing views and video plays and attracting more unique visitors to our websites through site enhancements and additional video. Our strategy also includes attracting a broader audience through placing our video programming on national video streaming sites, developing new sources of revenue that capitalize on traffic growth at our websites and capitalizing on the movement of advertising dollars to mobile platforms. 

We also have investments in several entities in which we do not own a controlling interest (see Note 7 – Investments). 

HGTV  

HGTV is available in approximately 93.4 million domestic television households and is simulcast in high definition (“HD”). HGTV programming content commands an audience interested specifically in home-related topics. HGTV is television's premier network dedicated solely to topics such as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate. HGTV strives to engage audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. HGTV appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges. HGTV ranked second among women in the 25 to 54 age range and eighth among all adult viewers in the 25 to 54 age range for cable networks.  

Programming on HGTV includes House Hunters, House Hunters International, Fixer Upper, Flip or Flop, The Property Brothers and Ellen’s Design Challenge. The network also has developed successful programming events, including the HGTV Dream Home Giveaway, HGTV Smart Home Giveaway, HGTV Urban Oasis Giveaway and annual live coverage of the Tournament of Roses Parade. Many of the programs on HGTV feature, or are hosted by, high-profile television personalities such as Chip and Joanna Gaines; Tarek and Christina El Moussa; Drew and Jonathan Scott; Ellen DeGeneres and cousins Anthony Carrino and John Colaneri.  

Food Network  

Food Network is available in approximately 95.0 million U.S. television households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own 68.7 percent of the Food Network and are the managing partner. The Tribune Media Company (“Tribune”) has a non-controlling interest of 31.3 percent in Food Network.  

Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested in food-related topics such as food preparation, dining out, entertaining, food manufacturing, nutrition and healthy eating. Food Network engages audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. Food Network appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges. Food Network ranked within the top 10 cable networks for women in the 25 to 54 age range.  

Programming on Food Network includes primetime series Beat Bobby Flay, Burgers, Brew and ‘Que, Chopped, Cutthroat Kitchen, Diners, Drive-ins and Dives, Food Network Star and Guy’s Grocery Games, as well as daytime series Giada in Italy, The Kitchen, Pioneer Woman and Trisha’s Southern Kitchen. Food Network hosts include high-profile television personalities such as Valerie Bertinelli, Anne Burrell, Alex Guarnaschelli, Alton Brown, Bobby Flay, Giada De Laurentiis, Guy Fieri, Rachael Ray, Ree Drummond, Robert Irvine and Trisha Yearwood.  

Travel Channel  

Travel Channel is available in approximately 88.6 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own 65.0 percent of Travel Channel. On January 6, 2016, we notified the owner of the non-controlling interest of our intention to execute our call option to purchase their interest, resulting in 100.0 percent ownership of Travel Channel (see Note 24 – Subsequent Events).  

Travel Channel programming content attracts travel enthusiasts and is a leading travel multi-media brand offering quality television, video and mobile entertainment and information. Travel Channel programming appeals to viewers who are more affluent than the average cable viewer and skews slightly toward adult men in the 18 to 49 age range.  

Programming on Travel Channel includes Hotel Impossible, Mysteries at the Museum, Bizarre Foods, Trip Flip, Booze Traveler, Expedition Unknown and Ghost Adventures. Many of the programs on Travel Channel feature, or are hosted by, high-profile  

6 

television personalities such as Andrew Zimmern, Samantha Brown, Don Wildman, Anthony Melchiorri, Bert Kreischer, Jack Maxwell, Josh Gates and Zak Bagans.  

DIY Network  

DIY Network is available in approximately 61.2 million U.S. television households and is simulcast in HD. DIY Network programming provides entertaining and informational content across a broad range of do-it-yourself categories including home building, home improvement and renovations, gardening and landscaping. DIY Network appeals more strongly to male viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges.  

Programming on DIY Networks includes Rehab Addict, Vanilla Ice Project, Building Alaska, First Time Flippers, Tiny House Big Living and the various Crashers series. Many of the programs on DIY Network feature, or are hosted by, television personalities such as Nicole Curtis, Jason Cameron, Alison Victoria and Chris Lambton.  

Cooking Channel  

Cooking Channel is available in approximately 64.9 million domestic households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own 68.7 percent of this network, which represents a controlling interest. Tribune has a non-controlling interest of 31.3 percent in Cooking Channel.  

Cooking Channel programming caters to avid food lovers by focusing on food information and instructional cooking and delivers content focused on baking, ethnic cuisine, wine and spirits, healthy and vegetarian cooking and kids' foods. The Cooking Channel appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges.  

Programming on Cooking Channel includes Carnival Eats, Unique Eats, Sweet Genius, Dinner at Tiffani’s, Food Fact or Fiction, Man Fire Food, Rev Run’s Sunday Suppers and Tia Mowry at Home. Cooking Channel hosts include notable television personalities such as Haylie Duff, Tia Mowry, Rev Run and Justine Simmons and Tiffani Thiessen. 

Great American Country  

Great American Country is available in approximately 58.1 million U.S. television households and is simulcast in HD. Great American Country provides its viewers with programming that celebrates the country lifestyle and includes the country music experience, music performance specials, live concerts and country music videos.  

Programming on Great American Country includes Going RV, Flea Market Flip, Log Cabin Living, Celebrity Motor Homes and the Top 20 Country Countdown.  

International Networks 

International Networks generates revenues principally from advertising sales, affiliate fees and the licensing of programming to third parties. Satellite transmission fees, programming expenses, employee costs and marketing and advertising expenses are the primary operating costs of International Networks.  

We currently broadcast 39 international channel feeds, reaching approximately 265 million cumulative subscribers under the HGTV, DIY, Food Network, AFC, Cooking Channel, Fine Living and Travel Channel brands, as well as the TVN network portfolio. Our broadcast networks are distributed in 29 languages, with channel feeds customized according to language in more than 175 countries and territories. In addition to the broadcast networks, we also license a portion of our programming to other broadcasters around the world.  

Internationally, we also have joint-venture partnerships with BBC Worldwide for UKTV and its suite of 10 general entertainment and lifestyle networks in the UK, Direct TV for Food Network Latin American (“FNLA”) in Latin America, and Shaw Media for HGTV, DIY Network and Food Network in Canada. Subsequent to year end, Corus Entertainment, Inc. entered into an agreement to acquire Shaw Media. 

In 2010, the Company launched its first international pay-television channel through Food Network in the UK. The channel first launched on pay-television, then expanded its distribution in 2012 to free-to-air on Freeview, initially in primetime, and then as a full 24-hour broadcast channel in 2013. Currently, Food Network is the top lifestyle channel and the third most viewed non-scripted factual channel in the UK. Food Network is also available across EMEA, APAC and Latin America. 

7 

In 2014, the Company acquired AFC, a complementary channel brand to Food Network. AFC, which is based in Singapore, broadcasts 24 hours a day, seven days a week and reaches about 8.0 million subscribers in 11 markets. 

Travel Channel International Ltd. (“TCI”) was acquired in 2013 along with its base of operations in London. TCI is broadcast in 21 languages across a wide network of affiliates throughout EMEA and APAC. In 2014, TCI also became available on Freeview in primetime in the UK. 

In early 2014, we launched the Fine Living Network in Italy on the digital terrestrial television. Since its launch, over 40.0 percent of Italy’s television population has tuned into the channel. In late 2014, we launched HGTV in Singapore. HGTV is the first channel dedicated to the home and lifestyle category across APAC. 

During 2015 we also acquired TVN, which operates a portfolio of free-to-air and pay-TV lifestyle and entertainment networks, including TVN, TVN24, TVN Style, TTV, TVN Turbo, TVN24 Biznes i Świat. Also included in TVN is TVN Media, an advertising sales house. 

Competition 

Cable, satellite and telecommunications network programming is a highly-competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. Our television networks and interactive businesses generally compete for advertising revenue with other cable and broadcast television networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media. Our television networks and interactive business also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, competitors’ pay and basic cable television networks and video-on-demand services, streaming services, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. Additionally, our networks compete with other television networks for affiliate fees derived from distribution agreements with cable television and satellite operators, telecommunication service providers and other distributors. 

Intellectual Property 

Our intellectual property (“IP”) assets include copyrights in television content, trademarks and servicemarks in brands, names and logos, websites, and licenses from third parties. To defend these assets, we rely upon a combination of common law, statutory and contractual legal protections. There can be no assurance, however, of the degree to which these measures will be successful. Moreover, effective IP protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services and related IP is difficult and costly. Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our IP from time to time, and the success of any such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of IP rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, piracy, which encompasses the theft of our signal and unauthorized use of our content in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues. 

Regulatory Matters 

The Company is subject to and affected by laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as to the laws and regulations of international countries and bodies, such as the European Union (the “EU”). These laws and regulations are subject to change. Additionally, the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) regulates cable television and satellite operators and telecommunication providers, which could affect our networks indirectly. 

Closed Captioning 

All of our cable networks must provide closed-captioning programming for the hearing impaired. The 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2011 also requires us to provide closed captioning on certain video programming that we offer on the internet. 

CALM Act 

FCC rules require multichannel video programming distributors to ensure that all commercials comply with specified volume standards. Our affiliation agreements generally require us to certify compliance with such standards. 

8 

“Must-Carry” Requirements 

The FCC’s implementation of the statutory “must-carry” obligations requires cable operators and multichannel video programming distributors to give broadcasters preferential access to channel space. In contrast, programming television networks, such as ours, have no guaranteed right of carriage on these systems. This may reduce the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our television networks by these systems. 

Regulation of the Internet and Mobile Applications 

We operate numerous websites and make available mobile applications (“apps”) which we use to distribute information about our programs and to engage more deeply with our viewers. The operation of these websites, video programming and apps are subject to a range of federal, state and local laws, such as privacy and consumer protection regulations. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 3,500 full-time equivalent employees globally. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS