Item 1. Business.  

General Development and Description of Business and Business Segments  

Overview  

We are a global play and entertainment company committed to Creating the World’s Best Play Experiences. We strive to do this through deep consumer engagement and the application of consumer insights, the use of immersive storytelling to build brands, product innovation and the development of global business reach. We apply these principles to leverage our owned and controlled brands, including Franchise Brands LITTLEST PET SHOP, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MONOPOLY, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, PLAY-DOH and TRANSFORMERS, as well as for our Partner Brands portfolio. From toys and games to television, movies, digital gaming and other forms of digital entertainment and a comprehensive consumer products licensing program, Hasbro fulfills the fundamental need for play and connection for children and families around the world. The Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary Hasbro Studios LLC (“Hasbro Studios”) and its film labels, Allspark Pictures and Allspark Animation, create entertainment brand-driven storytelling across mediums, including television, film and more. These elements are executed globally in alignment with our strategic plan, the brand blueprint. At the center of this blueprint, we re-imagine, re-invent and re-ignite our owned and controlled brands and imagine, invent and ignite new brands, through product innovation, immersive entertainment offerings, including television and motion pictures, digital gaming and a broad range of consumer products.  

Storytelling and Other Entertainment Initiatives  

Our brand blueprint focuses on reinforcing storylines associated with our brands through several outlets, including television, motion pictures and digital content.  

As part of our brand blueprint, we seek to build our brands through entertainment-based storytelling. Hasbro Studios is responsible for brand-driven storytelling across mediums, including the development and global distribution of television programming primarily based on our brands. This programming currently airs in markets throughout the world. Domestically, Hasbro Studios primarily distributes programming to Discovery Family Channel (the “Network”), a joint venture between Discovery Communications, Inc. (“Discovery”) and ourselves which operates a cable television network in the United States dedicated to high-quality children’s and family entertainment and educational programming. Beginning in 2015, Hasbro Studios began distributing certain  

3   

Table of Contents 

 programming domestically to other outlets, including Cartoon Network. Internationally, Hasbro Studios distributes to various broadcasters and cable networks. Hasbro Studios also distributes programming globally on various digital platforms, including Netflix and iTunes. In 2016, Hasbro acquired Boulder Media, an animation studio based in Dublin, Ireland. In addition to working on a variety of projects for Hasbro Studios, Allspark Animation and Allspark Pictures, Boulder Media continues to produce non-Hasbro content under the Boulder name.  

During 2014, we introduced Allspark Pictures, Hasbro’s film label, as a vehicle to produce both animated and live action theatrical releases based on our brands. During 2017 we formed Allspark Animation, an additional film label to expand our entertainment services. Our plan going forward is to produce live action entertainment, including film and television, under the Allspark Pictures moniker, and to produce animated entertainment under the Allspark Animation label. In October 2017 the Company entered into an agreement with Paramount Pictures (“Paramount”) to produce and distribute live action and animated films, as well as television programming based on Hasbro brands over a five-year period. Hasbro’s Allspark Pictures and Allspark Animation will play an active role alongside Paramount in content development and production under this relationship and we will play a more significant role in financing the films as well. The Company’s storytelling initiatives support its strategy of growing its brands well beyond traditional toys and games and providing entertainment experiences for consumers of all ages accessible anytime in many forms and formats. In October 2016, Allspark Pictures released OUIJA: ORIGIN OF EVIL. In October 2017, Allspark Pictures released MY LITTLE PONY: THE MOVIE. In December 2018, through their partnership, Hasbro and Paramount expect to release BUMBLEBEE, a film centered on the TRANSFORMERS character, BUMBLEBEE.  

In addition to film and television initiatives, Hasbro understands the importance of digital content to drive fan engagement, including in gaming and across other media, and of integrating such content with our products. Digital media encompasses digital gaming applications and the creation of digital environments for analog products through the use of complementary digital applications and websites which extend storylines and enhance play. As of December 2016, we owned a 70% majority stake in Backflip Studios, LLC (“Backflip”), a mobile game developer, and in January 2017, we increased our ownership to 100%. While certain of our trademarks, characters and other property rights are licensed by third parties in connection with digital gaming, we anticipate increasingly leveraging and applying Backflip’s digital gaming expertise to Hasbro brands in 2018 and beyond.  

As we seek to grow our business in entertainment, licensing, digital gaming and innovative product offerings, we will continue to evaluate strategic alliances, acquisitions and investments, like Hasbro Studios, Boulder Media, the Network and Backflip, which may allow us to strengthen our competencies around the brand blueprint, such as in storytelling and digital, complement our current product offerings, allow us entry into areas which are adjacent or complementary to our existing business, allow us to add to our brand portfolio, or allow us to further develop awareness of our brands and expand the ability of consumers to experience our brands in different forms and formats.  

Brand Portfolios  

Hasbro organizes and markets owned, controlled and licensed intellectual properties within our brand architecture under the following brand portfolios: (1) Franchise Brands; (2) Partner Brands; (3) Hasbro Gaming; and (4) Emerging Brands.  

Franchise Brands Franchise Brands are Hasbro’s most significant owned or controlled properties which we believe have the ability to deliver significant revenues and growth over the long-term. In 2017 our seven Franchise Brands were LITTLEST PET SHOP, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MONOPOLY, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, PLAY-DOH and TRANSFORMERS. As reported, net revenues from Franchise Brands grew 10% in 2017, and 2% in 2016. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, Franchise Brands were 49%, 46% and 52% of total net revenues, respectively. Beginning in 2018, Emerging Brand BABY ALIVE will replace LITTLEST PET SHOP in the Franchise Brands line-up based on the historical strength of the BABY ALIVE brand and the Company’s belief in the sustainability of the brand’s success. We are moving LITTLEST PET SHOP to the Emerging Brands category to allow us to take a more entrepreneurial approach to that brand and better allow us to re-invent that brand.  

Partner Brands Partner Brands include those licensed brands for which Hasbro develops toy and game products. Significant Partner Brands include MARVEL, including SPIDER-MAN and THE AVENGERS, STAR WARS, DISNEY PRINCESS and DISNEY FROZEN, DISNEY‘S DESCENDANTS, BEYBLADE, DREAMWORKS’ TROLLS, SESAME STREET and YO-KAI WATCH. Partner brands MARVEL, STAR WARS, DISNEY’S DESCENDANTS, DISNEY PRINCESS and DISNEY FROZEN are all owned by The Walt Disney Company (“Disney”).  

In 2017, Hasbro sold product lines supported by the following theatrical releases from our partners: Marvel’s GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY VOL. 2 in May, SPIDER-MAN: HOMECOMING in July, THOR: RAGNAROK in November and STAR WARS: THE LAST JEDI in December in addition to films featuring our Franchise Brands  

4   

Table of Contents 

 TRANSFORMERS: THE LAST KNIGHT in June, and MY LITTLE PONY: THE MOVIE, in October. In 2016, Hasbro sold product supported by four major motion picture releases by our partners: CAPTAIN AMERICA: CIVIL WAR, DREAMWORKS’ TROLLS, MOANA and ROGUE ONE: A STAR WARS STORY. In 2018, we expect to sell products related to several partner theatrical releases, including BLACK PANTHER in February, AVENGERS: INFINITY WAR in May, SOLO: A STAR WARS STORY in May and SPIDER-MAN: INTO THE SPIDER-VERSE in December, as well as the BUMBLEBEE film in December from our Franchise brand, TRANSFORMERS.   

Hasbro Gaming Hasbro continues to revolutionize game play through our strong portfolio of Gaming Brands, digital integration, the mining of social media trends to garner consumer insights and capitalize on popular gaming themes, and the rapid introduction of innovative new gaming brands and play experiences. Hasbro Gaming includes brands such as DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, JENGA, THE GAME OF LIFE, OPERATION, PIE FACE, SCRABBLE, TRIVIAL PURSUIT and TWISTER as well as social games including FANTASTIC GYMNASTICS, SPEAK OUT and TOILET TROUBLE; in addition, Hasbro’s games portfolio also includes many other well-known game brands. To successfully execute our gaming strategy, we consider brands which may capitalize on existing trends while evolving our approach to gaming using consumer insights and offering gaming experiences relevant to consumer demand for face to face, trading card and digital game experiences played as board, off-the-board, digital, card, electronic, trading card and role-playing games.  

Emerging Brands Emerging Brands are those owned or controlled Hasbro brands which have not achieved Franchise Brand status, but many of which the Company believes have the potential to do so over time with investment and further development. Through 2017, these included brands such as BABY ALIVE, FURBY, FURREAL FRIENDS, HANAZUKI, KRE-O, PLAYSKOOL and PLAYSKOOL HEROES. Beginning in 2018, the BABY ALIVE brand is moving to Franchise Brands and LITTLEST PET SHOP will be included in Emerging Brands. The Emerging Brands portfolio also includes new brands being developed by the Company, as well as other brands not captured in our other three categories.  

Segments  

Organizationally, our three principal segments are U.S. and Canada, International and Entertainment and Licensing. The U.S. and Canada and International segments engage in the marketing and selling of various toy and game products described above. Our toy and game products are primarily developed by cross-functional teams, including members of our global development and marketing groups, to establish a cohesive brand direction and assist the segments in establishing certain local marketing programs. The costs of these groups are allocated to our principal segments. Our U.S. and Canada segment covers the United States and Canada while the International segment primarily includes Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin and South America. The Entertainment and Licensing segment conducts our movie, television and digital gaming entertainment operations, including the operations of Hasbro Studios and Backflip as well as engages in the out-licensing of our trademarks, characters and other brand and intellectual property rights to third parties for digital gaming and consumer products. Our Global Operations segment is responsible for arranging product manufacturing and sourcing for the U.S. and Canada and International segments. Financial information with respect to our segments and geographic areas is included in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The following is a discussion of each segment.  

U.S. and Canada Our U.S. and Canada segment engages in the marketing and sale of our products in the United States and Canada. The U.S. and Canada segment promotes our brands through constant innovation and reinvention. This is accomplished through introducing new products and initiatives driven by consumer and marketplace insights and leveraging opportunistic toy and game lines and licenses. This strategy leverages efforts to increase consumer awareness of the Company’s brands through entertainment experiences, including motion pictures and television programming.  

International The International segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories to retailers and wholesalers in most countries in Europe, Latin and South America, and the Asia Pacific region and through distributors in those countries where we have no direct presence. We have offices in more than 35 countries contributing to sales in more than 120 countries.  

In addition to growing brands, leveraging opportunistic product lines and driving our licensed business, we seek to grow our international business by continuing to opportunistically expand into emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin and South America. Emerging markets are an area of high priority for us as we believe they offer greater opportunities for revenue growth than developed markets. Key emerging markets include Russia, Brazil and the People’s Republic of China (“China”). Net revenues from emerging markets represented 14% of our total consolidated net revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015. In 2017, net revenues from emerging markets increased 5% while in 2016, net revenues in emerging markets increased 9% from 2015.  

5   

Table of Contents 

In 2017, the international segment benefited from foreign currency translation whereas the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in 2016 had a negative impact on the International segment. The impact from foreign currency translation on International segment net revenues as compared to the prior year translation rates for 2017 and 2016 was $75.3 million and $(58.4) million, respectively. Financial information with respect to foreign currency risk management is included in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Entertainment and Licensing Our Entertainment and Licensing segment includes our consumer products licensing, digital gaming, television and movie entertainment operations.  

Our consumer products licensing category seeks to promote our brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to third parties for promotional and merchandising uses in businesses which do not compete directly with our own product offerings, such as apparel, publishing, home goods and electronics, or in certain situations, to utilize them for toy products where we consider the out-licensing of brands to be more effective and profitable than developing and marketing the products ourselves.  

Our digital gaming business seeks to promote our brands largely through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to a number of partners who develop and offer digital games for play on mobile devices, personal computers, and video game consoles based on those brands. The Company has digital gaming relationships with Electronic Arts Inc., Activision, Ubisoft, Scopely and others. Lastly, we also license our brands to third parties engaged in other forms of gaming, including Scientific Games Corporation. Through Backflip, our owned mobile game development studio, we seek to complement the aforementioned out-licensing with the development of internal digital gaming resources. Backflip’s product offerings include games for tablets and mobile devices, including the DRAGONVALE and TRANSFORMERS: EARTH WARS games. Through Backflip, we intend to continue focusing on our existing game titles, and to launch new games, including further offerings based on Hasbro brands.  

Major motion pictures and television programming based on our owned and controlled brands provide both immersive storytelling and the ability for our consumers to experience these properties in a different format, which we believe can result in increased product sales, royalty revenues, and overall brand awareness. To a lesser extent, we can also earn revenue from our participation in the financial results of motion pictures and related home entertainment releases and through the distribution of television programming. Revenue from toy and game product sales is a component of the U.S. and Canada and International segments, while royalty revenues, including revenues earned from movies and television programming, is included in the Entertainment and Licensing segment.  

Global Operations Our Global Operations segment sources production of our toy and game products. Through August 2015, the Company owned and operated manufacturing facilities in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland which predominantly produced game products. These facilities were sold to Cartamundi NV (“Cartamundi”). Cartamundi continues to manufacture significant quantities of game products for us in their two facilities under a multi-year manufacturing agreement. Sourcing for our other production is done through unrelated third party manufacturers in various Far East countries, principally China, using a Hong Kong based wholly-owned subsidiary operation for quality control and order coordination purposes. See “Manufacturing and Importing” below for more details concerning overseas manufacturing and sourcing.  

Other Information To further extend our range of products in the various segments of our business, we sell a portion of our toy and game products to retailers on a direct import basis from the Far East. These sales are reflected in the revenue of the related segment where the customer is geographically located.  

Certain of our products are licensed to other companies for sale in selected countries where we do not otherwise have a direct business presence.  

Each of our four product categories, namely Franchise Brands, Partner Brands, Hasbro Gaming and Emerging Brands, generate approximately 10% or more of our net revenues. For more information, including the amount of net revenues attributable to each of our four product categories, see Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Working Capital Requirements  

Our working capital needs are financed through cash generated from operations, primarily through the sale of toys and games and secondarily through our consumer products licensing and entertainment operations, and, when necessary, proceeds from short-term borrowings.  

Our customer order patterns may vary from year to year largely due to fluctuations in the degree of consumer acceptance of product lines, product availability, marketing strategies and inventory policies of retailers, the dates  

6   

Table of Contents 

 of theatrical releases of major motion pictures for which we offer products, and changes in overall economic conditions. As such, a disproportionate volume of our net revenues are earned during the third and fourth quarters leading up to the retail industry’s holiday selling season, including Christmas. As a result, comparisons of unshipped orders on any date with those at the same date in the prior year are not necessarily indicative of our sales for that year. Moreover, quick response, or just-in-time, inventory management practices result in a significant proportion of orders being placed for immediate delivery. Although the Company may receive orders from customers in advance, it is general industry practice that these orders are subject to amendment or cancellation by customers prior to shipment and, as such, the Company does not believe that these unshipped orders, at any given date, are indicative of future sales. We expect that retailers will continue to follow this strategy. As such, our business generally earns more revenue in the second half of the year compared to the first half. In 2017, the second half of the year accounted for approximately 65% of full year revenues with the third and fourth quarters accounting for 34% and 31%, respectively, of full year net revenues. The types of programs that we plan to employ to promote sales in 2018 are substantially the same as those we employed in 2017 and in prior years.  

Historically, we commit to the majority of our inventory production and advertising and marketing expenditures for a given year prior to the peak fourth quarter retail selling season. Our accounts receivable increases during the third and fourth quarter as customers increase their purchases to meet expected consumer demand in the holiday season. Due to the concentrated timeframe of this selling period, payments for these accounts receivable are generally not due until later in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter of the subsequent year. The timing difference between expenses paid and revenues collected sometimes makes it necessary for us to borrow varying amounts during the year. During 2017, we utilized cash from our operations, borrowings under our commercial paper program and uncommitted lines of credit as well as excess proceeds from the 2017 issuance of long-term debt to meet our cash flow requirements.   

Product Development and Royalties  

Our success is dependent on continuous innovation in our play and entertainment offerings and requires continued development of new brands and products alongside the redesign of existing products to drive consumer interest and market acceptance. Our toy and game products are developed by a global development function, the costs of which are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we incurred expenses of $269.0 million, $266.4 million, and $242.9 million, respectively, on activities related to the development, design and engineering of new products and their packaging (including products brought to us by independent designers) and on the improvement or modification of ongoing products. Much of this work is performed by our internal staff of designers, artists, model makers and engineers.  

In addition to the design and development work performed by our own staff, we deal with a number of independent toy and game designers, for whose designs and ideas we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Rights to such designs and ideas, when acquired by us, are usually exclusive and the agreements require us to pay the designer a royalty on our net sales of the item. These designer royalty agreements, in some cases, also provide for advance royalties and minimum guarantees.  

We also produce a number of toys and games under licenses based on our partners’ trademarks and copyrights for the names or likenesses of characters from movies, television shows and other entertainment media, for whose rights we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Licensing fees for these rights are generally paid as a royalty on our net sales of the item. Licenses for the use of characters may be exclusive for specific products or product lines in specified territories, or may be non-exclusive, in which case our product offerings may be competing with the product offerings of other licensees. In many instances, advance royalties and minimum guarantees are required by these license agreements. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we incurred $405.5 million, $409.5 million, and $379.2 million, respectively, of royalty expense. Our royalty expense in any given year may also vary depending upon the timing of movie releases and other entertainment media.   

Marketing and Sales  

While our global development function focuses on brand and product innovation and re-invention, our global marketing function establishes brand direction and messaging and assists the selling entities in establishing local marketing programs. The global marketing group works cross-functionally with the global development function to deliver unified, brand-specific points of view. The costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. In addition to the global marketing function, our local selling entities employ sales and marketing functions responsible for local market activities and execution.  

7   

Table of Contents 

Our products are sold globally to a broad spectrum of customers, including wholesalers, distributors, chain stores, discount stores, drug stores, mail order houses, catalog stores, department stores and other traditional retailers, large and small, as well as internet-based “e-retailers.” Our own sales forces account for the majority of sales of our products with remaining sales generated by independent distributors who, for the most part, sell our products in areas of the world where we do not otherwise maintain a direct presence. Notwithstanding our thousands of customers, the majority of our sales are to large chain stores, distributors, e-retailers and wholesalers. Customer concentration provides us with certain benefits, such as potentially more efficient product distribution practices and other reductions in costs of sales and distribution; however, customer concentration can also create additional risks for our business. These risks can create potential detriments to our business resulting from the financial difficulties of our major customers which could lead to reductions in sales or unfavorable changes in our business relationships with one, or more, of our major customers. Customer concentration may also decrease the prices we are able to obtain for some of our products and reduce the number of products we would otherwise be able to bring to market. During 2017, net revenues from our top five customers accounted for approximately 42% of our consolidated global net revenues, including our three largest customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Target Corporation who represented 19%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of consolidated global net revenues. In the U.S. and Canada segment, approximately 61% of our net revenues were derived from these top three customers. The bankruptcy filing in September 2017 of Toys “R” Us in the U.S. and Canada, and the difficulties of Toys “R” Us in the United Kingdom significantly impacted our sales and profitability in the fourth quarter of 2017 and we expect the financial difficulties of Toys “R” Us will negatively impact our sales in 2018, with the greatest amount of that impact likely to be in the first half of 2018, as we right size our inventory with Toys “R” Us and as they close stores.  

We advertise many of our toy and game products extensively on television and through digital marketing and advertising of our brands. Products are strategically cross-promoted by spotlighting specific products alongside related offerings in a manner that promotes the sale of not only the selected item, but also those complementary products. In addition to those advertising initiatives, Hasbro Studios produces entertainment based primarily on our brands which appears on Discovery Family Channel and other major networks globally as well as on various other digital platforms, such as Netflix and iTunes. In addition, Allspark Pictures and Allspark Animation produce both animated and live action theatrical releases based on our brands. We also introduce many of our new products to major customers within one to two years leading up to their year of retail introduction. We generally showcase certain new products in New York City at the time of the American International Toy Fair in February, as well as at other international toy shows, including in Hong Kong and Nuremburg, Germany. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we incurred $501.8 million, $468.9 million, and $409.4 million, respectively, in expense related to advertising and promotional programs.  

Manufacturing and Importing  

During 2017 substantially all of our products were manufactured in third party facilities in the Far East, primarily China, as well as in two previously owned facilities located in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland. These facilities were owned by the Company through August 2015, at which point they were sold to Cartamundi, who continues to manufacture significant quantities of game products for us under a multi-year manufacturing agreement.  

We believe that the manufacturing capacity of our third-party manufacturers, as well as the supply of components, accessories and completed products which we purchase from unaffiliated manufacturers, are adequate to meet the anticipated demand in 2018 for our products. Our reliance on designated external sources of manufacturing could be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply for our products, should such changes be necessary or desirable. However, if we were to be prevented from obtaining products from a substantial number of our current Far East suppliers due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations and our ability to obtain products would be severely disrupted while alternative sources of product were secured and production shifted to those new sources. The imposition of trade sanctions, tariffs, border adjustment taxes or other measures by the United States or the European Union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of “normal trade relations” status with, China, or other countries where we manufacture products, or other factors which increase the cost of manufacturing in China, or other countries where we manufacture products, such as higher labor costs or an appreciation in the Chinese Yuan, could significantly disrupt our operations and/or significantly increase the cost of the products which are manufactured and imported into other markets.  

Most of our products are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic, paper and cardboard, although certain products also make use of electronic components. All of these materials are readily available but may be subject to significant fluctuations in price. There are certain chemicals (including phthalates and BPA) that  

8   

Table of Contents 

 national, state and local governments have restricted or are seeking to restrict or limit the use of; however, we do not believe these restrictions have or will materially impact our business. We generally enter into agreements with suppliers at the beginning of a fiscal year that establish prices for that year. However, significant volatility in the prices of any of these materials may require renegotiation with our suppliers during the year.  

The manufacturing processes of our vendors include injection molding, blow molding, spray painting, printing, box making and assembly. The countries of the Far East, particularly China, constitute the largest manufacturing center of toys in the world and the majority of our toy products are manufactured in China. The 1996 implementation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade reduced or eliminated customs duties on many of the products imported by us.  

Competition  

We are a worldwide leader in the development, design, sale and marketing of toys and games and other family entertainment offerings, but our business is highly competitive. We compete with several large toy and game companies in our product categories, as well as many smaller United States and international toy and game designers, manufacturers and marketers. We also compete with other companies that offer branded entertainment specific to children and their families. Given the ease of entry into our business we view our primary competition as coming from content providers who are creating entertainment experiences that compete with our brand-driven storytelling for consumer attention. Businesses that create compelling content can readily translate that content into a full range of product offerings. Competition is based primarily on meeting consumer entertainment preferences and on the quality and play value of our products and experiences. To a lesser extent, competition is also based on product pricing. In entertainment, Hasbro Studios and Discovery Family Channel compete with other children’s and family television networks and entertainment producers, such as Nickelodeon, Cartoon Network and Disney Channel, for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution.  

In addition to contending with competition from other toy and game and entertainment and storytelling companies, we contend with the phenomenon that children are increasingly sophisticated and have been moving away from traditional toys and games at a younger age. The variety of product and entertainment offerings available for children has expanded and product life cycles have shortened as children move on to more sophisticated offerings at earlier ages. We refer to this trend as “children getting older younger”. As a result, our products not only compete with those offerings produced by other toy and game manufacturers and companies offering branded family play and entertainment, we also compete, particularly in meeting the demands of older children, with entertainment offerings of many technology companies, such as makers of tablets, mobile devices, video games and other consumer electronic products.  

The volatility in consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment and low barriers to entry as well as the emergence of new technologies continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups to develop products that compete with our entertainment and toy and game offerings.   

Employees  

At December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 5,400 persons worldwide, approximately 2,800 of whom were located in the United States.  

Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents  

We seek to protect our products, for the most part, and in as many countries as practical, through registered trademarks, copyrights and patents to the extent that such protection is available, cost effective, and meaningful. The loss of such rights concerning any particular product is unlikely to result in significant harm to our business, although the loss of such protection for a number of significant items might have such an effect.  

Government Regulation  

Our toy and game products sold in the United States are subject to the provisions of The Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, (as amended, the “CPSA”), The Federal Hazardous Substances Act (the “FHSA”), The Flammable Fabrics Act (the “FFA”), and the regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, a few of our products, such as the food mixes for our EASY-BAKE ovens, are also subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration.  

The CPSA empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”) to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including the formulation and implementation of regulations and uniform safety  

9   

Table of Contents 

 standards. The CPSC has the authority to seek to declare a product “a banned hazardous substance” under the CPSA and to ban it from commerce. The CPSC can file an action to seize and condemn an “imminently hazardous consumer product” under the CPSA and may also order equitable remedies such as recall, replacement, repair or refund for the product. The FHSA provides for the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles that are banned.  

Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in many international markets including Canada, Australia and Europe. We utilize independent third party laboratories that employ testing and other procedures intended to maintain compliance with the CPSA, the FHSA, the FFA, other applicable domestic and international product standards, and our own standards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that our products are or will be hazard free. Any material product recall or other safety issue impacting our products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, depending on the product and scope of the recall, could damage our reputation and could negatively affect sales of our other products as well.  

The Children’s Television Act of 1990 and the rules promulgated thereunder by the United States Federal Communications Commission, the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, as well as the laws of certain other countries, also place limitations on television commercials during children’s programming and on advertising in other forms to children, and on the collection of information from children, such as restrictions on collecting information from children under the age of thirteen subject to the provisions of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act.  

In addition to laws restricting the collection of information from children, our business is subject to other regulations, such as the General Data Protection Regulation which becomes effective in the European Union in May 2018, which restrict the collection, use, and retention of person information from all persons. Failure to comply with those restrictions can subject us to severe liabilities.  

Further we maintain programs to comply with various United States federal, state, local and international requirements relating to the environment, health, safety and other matters.   

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas  

The information required by this item is included in Note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The following persons are the executive officers of the Company. Such executive officers are elected annually. The position(s) and office(s) listed below are the principal position(s) and office(s) held by such persons with the Company. The persons listed below generally also serve as officers and directors of certain of the Company’s various subsidiaries at the request and convenience of the Company.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) Prior thereto, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer from 2015 to 2017; prior thereto, President and Chief Executive Officer from 2008 to 2015. 

10   

Table of Contents 

  (2) Prior thereto, President Hasbro Brands from 2014 to 2017; prior thereto, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from 2013 to 2014; prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer from 2008 to 2013. 

  (3) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2013. 

  (4) Prior thereto, Executive Vice President, Global Operations and Business Development from 2014 to 2017; Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer from 2013 to 2014; and Senior Vice President and Global Chief Development Officer from 2008 to 2013. 

  (5) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Operations, from 2012 to 2017 

  (6) Prior thereto, President, Hasbro Studios, from 2009 to 2014. 

  (7) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary from 2010 to 2014. 

  (8) Prior thereto, President, North America from 2012 to 2013; prior thereto, President, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets from 2006 to 2012.  

Availability of Information  

Our internet address is http://www.hasbro.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available free of charge on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers who file electronically. That site is at http://www.sec.gov.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.