Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

As of March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2009, our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities and money market funds that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, totaled $1,506.6 million and $1,318.83 million respectively, and our trading securities totaled $24.9 million and $122.5 million, respectively. Our available-for-sale securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. We have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. The following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rat es. We have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

At March 31, 2010, $49.8 million of original purchase value of our investment portfolio was invested in ARS. Historically, the carrying value of auction rate securities (ARS) approximated fair value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. If an auction fails for amounts we have invested, our investment will not be liquid. With the continuing liquidity issues experienced in the global credit and capital markets, our ARS have experienced multiple failed auctions. In September 2007 and February 2008, auctions for $24.9 million and $34.8 million, respectively, of the original purchase value of our investments in ARS had failed. While we continue to earn interest on these investments based on a pre-determined formula with spreads tied to particular interest rate indices, the estimated market valu e for a portion of these ARS no longer approximates the original purchase value. 

The $24.9 million in failed auctions noted above have continued to fail through the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The fair value at March 31, 2010 of the failed ARS of $14.2 million has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on future market conditions. We evaluated the impairments in the value of these ARS, determining our intent to sell these securities prior to the recovery of its amortized cost basis resulted in the securities being other-than-temporarily impaired and recognized an impairment charge on  

39 

these investments of $3.6 million during fiscal 2009 and $4.7 million in fiscal 2010. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings. 

The $34.8 million of ARS that failed during February 2008 are investments in student loan-backed ARS (SLARS). Approximately $2.9 million and $7.0 million of these SLARS were redeemed at par by the issuers during the fiscal years 2009 and 2010, respectively, reducing our overall position in these SLARS to $24.9 million which represents the initial cost basis for these investments. Based upon our evaluation of available information, we believe these investments are of high credit quality, as all of the investments carry AAA credit ratings by one or more of the major credit rating agencies and are largely backed by the federal government (Federal Family Education Loan Program).  

The fair value of the failed SLARS has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on future market conditions. However, if the issuers are not able to successfully close future auctions or over time are not able to obtain more favorable financing options for their debt issuance needs, including refinancing these obligations into lower rate securities, the market value of these investments could be negatively impacted. 

In November 2008, we executed an SLARS rights agreement (the Rights) with the broker through which we purchased the $24.9 million in ARS that provides (1) us with the right to put these SLARS back to the broker at par anytime during the period from June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012, and (2) the broker with the right to purchase or sell the ARS at par on our behalf anytime through July 2, 2012. We accounted for the acceptance of the Rights as the receipt of a put option for no consideration and recognized a gain with a corresponding recognition as a long-term investment. We expect any future change in the fair value of the SLARS to be largely offset by changes in the fair value of the related Rights without any significant net impact to our income statement. We will continue to measure the SLARS and the Rights at fair value (utilizing Level 3 inputs) until the earlier of maturity or exercise. We intend and have the ability to hold the $24.9 million of ARS until the market recovers or until June 30, 2010 when we have the right to sell the SLARS at par to the broker as we do not anticipate having to sell these securities to fund the operations of our business. We believe that, based on our current unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, the current lack of liquidity in the credit and capital markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow or ability to fund our operations. 

Our investment in marketable equity securities at March 31, 2010 consisted of shares of common stock of Silicon Storage Technology, Inc., the value of which is determined by the closing price of such shares on the market on which the shares are traded as of the balance sheet date. The market value of this investment was approximately $58.4 million at March 31, 2010 and was equal to our purchase price of $3.05 per share. On April 8, 2010, we acquired Silicon Storage Technology, Inc. in a merger transaction for $3.05 per share for a total of $295.4 million in consideration in addition to the shares we purchased for $58.4 million. The $58.4 million of market value of these securities will be included in the determination of our total purchase price of $353.8 million. 

  Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA