Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS    

When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Our operating results were adversely impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. 

Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: 

      ·   changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers;    

      ·   levels of inventories at our customers;    

      ·   the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory;    

      ·   risk of excess and obsolete inventories;    

      ·   changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields;    

      ·   our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity;    

      ·   availability of raw materials and equipment;    

      ·   competitive developments including pricing pressures;    

      ·   unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales;    

      ·   the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter;    

      ·   the level of sell-through of our products through distribution;    

      ·   fluctuations in the mix of products;    

      ·   changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;    

      ·   constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers;    

      ·   costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues;    

      ·   changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business;    

      ·   disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns or disruptions in the transportation system;    

      ·   fluctuations in commodity prices;    

      ·   property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance; and    

      ·   general economic, industry or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally.    

We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of future performance. In future periods our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative  

10 

effect on the price of our common stock. Adverse global economic conditions and the subsequent economic recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. 

Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. 

The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipmen t deadlines. Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. In the quarter ended March 31, 2009, we reduced wafer starts in both Fab 2 and Fab 4, implemented rotating unpaid time off and had multiple planned shutdowns in our Thailand facility to help control inventory levels in response to adverse economic conditions. This lower capacity utilization resulted in certain costs being charged directly to expense and lower gross margins. In the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we increased our production output in our factories and did not have any shutdowns in our Thailand operation and reduced the amount of rotating unpaid time off in Fab 2 and Fab 4. In the March 2010 quarter, we returned to a more optimal level of capacity utilization. 

We are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and are therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments. 

Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead t imes. Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results may suffer. 

Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. 

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: 

      ·   the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products;    

      ·   our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies;    

      ·   the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications;    

      ·   product introductions by our competitors;    

      ·   the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market;    

      ·   our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices;    

      ·   our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights;    

      ·   our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain;    

      ·   our ability to address the needs of our customers; and    

      ·   general market and economic conditions.    

Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM and non-proprietary analog and interface products have declined over time. 

We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have been able to moderate average selling price  

11 

declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM and non-proprietary analog products. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results.  

Our business is dependent on selling through distributors. 

Sales through distributors accounted for approximately 61% of our net sales in fiscal 2010 and approximately 64% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2009 and approximately 12% of our net sales in fiscal 2010. We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. 

Adverse conditions in the U.S. and global economies and in the U.S. and global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. Any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. In addition, during an industry and/or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. 

Recent credit conditions have adversely impacted our holdings of auction rate securities. 

At March 31, 2010, $37.2 million of the fair value of our investment portfolio was invested in auction rate securities (ARS). Historically, the carrying value of ARS approximated fair value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. With the continuing liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets, our ARS have experienced multiple failed auctions. As a result, we will not be able to access such funds until a future auction on these investments is successful.  

$23.1 million of the fair value of our total ARS position is invested in student loan backed ARS. We believe these investments are of high credit quality, as all of the investments carry AAA credit ratings by one or more of the major credit rating agencies and are largely backed by the federal government (Federal Family Education Loan Program). Also, in November 2008, we executed an ARS rights agreement (the Rights) with the broker through which we purchased these ARS that provides (1) us with the right to put these ARS back to the broker at par anytime during the period from June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012, and (2) the broker with the right to purchase or sell the ARS at par on our behalf anytime through July 2, 2012. We intend to dispose of these ARS through the exercise of the put option on June 30, 2010. 

$14.1 million of the fair value of our total ARS position is invested in ARS whose underlying characteristics relate to servicing statutory requirements in the life insurance industry along with a small position related to a specialty finance company. These ARS have experienced multiple rating downgrades by the major rating agencies. The fair value of these ARS has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. Based on the estimated values, we concluded these investments were other than temporarily impaired and recognized an impairment charge on these investments of $3.6 million during fiscal 2009 and $4.7 million during fiscal 2010. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratin gs deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings. 

The majority of our short and long-term investments are in highly rated government agency bonds, municipal, and corporate bonds. Other than with respect to our holdings of ARS, we have not experienced any liquidity or impairment issues with such investments. However, the credit markets have continued to be highly volatile and there can be no assurance that these conditions will not in the future adversely affect the liquidity or value of our investments in government agency bonds, municipal bonds, or corporate bonds. 

Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. 

Our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: 

      ·   proper new product selection;    

      ·   timely completion and introduction of new product designs;    

· timely filing of intellectual property rights for new product designs; 

      ·   availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and    

      ·   market acceptance of our customers' end products.     

12 

Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products. In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results.   

Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures. We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. 

We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. 

Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. The competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. We may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. We have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team.  

We are dependent on several contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us. 

We use several contractors located in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. We also rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication. Although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. 

Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. Our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operations or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. Further, procurement of required products and services from third parties is done by purchase order and contracts. If these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additiona l manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us. In such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs, decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 

We may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. 

Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards. The raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier su pport for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. 

Our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. 

The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. Since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business may be subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. However, fluctuations in our overall business in recent periods, semiconductor industry conditions and global economic conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and have made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. The industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly replaced to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. 

13 

We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. 

We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. If we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed.   

It is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. These claims may be due to injury during manufacture, products' nonconformance to our specifications, or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, and unexpected end customer system issues due to the interaction with our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. We could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: 

      ·   costs related to writing off the value of inventory of nonconforming products;    

      ·   recalling nonconforming products;    

      ·   providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims;    

      ·   diversion of resources from other projects;    

      ·   lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders and unpaid receivables;    

      ·   customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and    

      ·   a requirement to pay damages.    

Because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, our expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. While we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. We do have liability insurance which covers damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. Costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. 

Further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. We may be subject to claims if our products, or interactions with our products, cause the system failures. We will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. 

Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. 

Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to or may ourselves initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Patent Offices of a foreign country or U.S. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. Although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. 

Our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our customers, distributors, or suppliers. 

We regularly review the financial performance of our customers, distributors and suppliers. However, global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our customers, distributors or suppliers. The financial failure of a large customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in us not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. 

14 

We do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers. 

We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. Even though we had over 60,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 9% of our total revenue for the year ended March 31, 2010, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse financial impact on our revenue and profits.   

Further, as the practice has become more commonplace in the industry, we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. Under these contracts we commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates. If we become unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality related issues. Under these contracts, we may be liable for the costs the customer has incurred. While we try to limit such liabilities, if they should arise, there may be a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. 

Business interruptions could harm our business. 

Operations at any of our facilities, or at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, fire, earthquake, floods, or other natural disasters. If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis. If this occurs, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. In addition, business interruption insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. 

We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. 

Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. During fiscal 2010, approximately 77% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. During fiscal 2009, approximately 75% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past, and is currently experiencing some instability in Bangkok, though the current situation has not noticeably affected the area in which our facilities are located. We also use various foreign contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. Substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand.  

Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: 

      ·   political, social and economic instability;    

      ·   public health conditions;    

      ·   trade restrictions and changes in tariffs;    

      ·   import and export license requirements and restrictions;    

      ·   difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;    

      ·   employment regulations;    

      ·   disruptions in international transport or delivery;    

      ·   difficulties in collecting receivables;    

      ·   economic slowdown in the worldwide markets served by us; and    

      ·   potentially adverse tax consequences.    

If any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and/or our operating results could suffer. 

Fluctuations in foreign currency could impact our operating results. We use forward currency exchange contracts to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures. Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation   

15 

to the U.S. dollar, such as the recent decline in the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. 

Interruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. 

We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption, including but not limited to new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We have implemented measures to manage our risks related to such disruptions, but such disruptions could still occur and negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches.  

The occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. 

We have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. In these circumstances, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. The risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to, certain property, product defects, political risks, and patent infringement. Should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, result of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. 

We are subject to stringent environmental regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. 

We must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. Such environmental regulations have required us in the past and could require us in the future to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations logisti cs, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. Over the past several years, there has been an expansion in environmental laws focusing on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances in electronic products. The European Union and countries such as the U.S., China, Korea and Brazil, have enacted or may enact such laws or regulations. These and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture and sell our products. In addition, over the last several years, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in quantity and the recycling of packaging materials have expanded significantly. It may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantitie s of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. We may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold inventory that is not saleable as a result of changes to regulations. We expect these risks and trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of hazardous substances in our products and energy efficiency measures. 

Climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. 

New climate change regulations could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. These regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. It is possible that new permits will be required for our current or expanded operations. Failure to receive timely permits could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations. In addition, new restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. Greenhouse gas legislation has been introduced in the U.S. and we expect worldwide regulatory activity in the future. The cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. 

Further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us such as water shortages or higher costs for water or to control the temperature inside of our facilities. Also, certain of our operations are located in tropical regions, such as Thailand. Some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable  

16 

to storms, floods and droughts due to climate change. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events.  

Regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products. 

A significant portion of our sales are made outside of the U.S. through the exporting and re-exporting of products. In addition to local jurisdictions' export regulations, our U.S.-manufactured products or products based on U.S. technology are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). Licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. A determination by the U.S. or local government that we have failed to comply wi th these or other export regulations can result in penalties including denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business including our ability to meet our net sales and earnings targets. Further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. Any one or more of these sanctions or a change in law or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   

The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the IRS could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities for fiscal 2006 and later. We are currently being audited by the IRS for fiscal 2006 through fiscal 2008. We are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2002 and later. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future operating results. 

The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. 

The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: 

      ·   quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other technology companies;    

      ·   actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors;    

      ·   changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations;    

      ·   changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance;    

      ·   any acquisitions we pursue or complete;    

      ·   general conditions in the semiconductor industry; and    

      ·   global economic and financial conditions.    

In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. 

We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions. 

We have acquired and expect in the future to acquire additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. The integration process for our acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of SST, may be complex, costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the produ cts of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies. We may be subject to claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. Acquisitions may also result in one-time charges (such as acquisition-related expenses,  

17 

write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, we may fund acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, raising debt, issuing shares of common stock, or other mechanisms. 

While the risks above are relevant to all of our acquisitions, our recent acquisition of SST is a larger and more complex transaction than our other recent transactions and may expose us to greater risks and liabilities than we have encountered in the past. 

Further, when we decide to sell assets or a business, such as certain assets of SST, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated.  

In addition to acquisitions, we have in the past and expect in the future to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. 

Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. 

As a result of our sale of $1.15 billion of principal value 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures in December 2007, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term debt than we have maintained in the past. Our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of our debentures or any other future indebtedness that we incur on or before the maturity of the debentures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 

We may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. 

We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. Because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of future operating results and cash flows may va ry significantly from results. No goodwill or long-lived assets impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2010. 

Conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. 

The conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. Upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. If upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. Upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. If the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of com mon stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e. the conversion spread). There would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. The conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. Any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. 

18 

Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. 

We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the FASB and the SEC. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. New accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. 

Recently proposed U.S. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially and adversely impact our business and financial results. 

Currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the U.S. Present U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. In fiscal 2009, President Obama's administration announced initiatives that would substantially reduce our ability to defer U.S. taxes including repealing the deferral of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization of or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminatin g various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the U.S. If any of these proposals become law, they could have a material negative impact on our financial position and results of operations.   

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None. 

Item 2. PROPERTIES