ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Interest Rate Risk 

Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.50 billion at March 29, 2008. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. The portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, auction rate securities and U.S. and foreign government and agency securities. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $9.0 million and $8.0 million, respectively. 

Credit Market Risk 

Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions due to the increased concerns related to the U.S. sub-prime mortgage market that have spread to other sectors of the U.S. economy. This has negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that the Company may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset-backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. Please see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information about our investments. 

35 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 

Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. 

Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. 

We enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. As of March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007, we had the following outstanding forward currency exchange contracts: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The net unrealized gain or loss, which approximates the fair market value of the above contracts, was immaterial at March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007. The contracts expire at various dates between April and June 2008.  

Our investments in several of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. These fluctuations are recorded within stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Other foreign-denominated assets and liabilities are revalued on a monthly basis with gains and losses on revaluation reflected in net income. A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 would have affected the annualized foreign-currency denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $15.0 million and $14.0 million, respectively. In addition, a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 would have affected the value of foreign-currency denominated cash and investments by less than $6.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively. 

36 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA