ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions. These solutions have several components:  Advanced integrated circuits (ICs) in the form of programmable logic devices (PLDs); Software design tools to program the PLDs; Predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (IP) cores; Design services; Customer training; and Field engineering and technical support. 

Our PLDs include field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic devices (CPLDs) that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our solutions are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, test and measurement, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. 

Xilinx was founded and incorporated in California in February 1984. In April 1990, the Company reincorporated in Delaware. Our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, California 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. 

Industry Overview 

There are three principal types of ICs used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. Xilinx develops PLDs, a type of logic device. Alternatives to PLDs include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application specific standard products (ASSPs). These devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. However, variations in unit pricing, development cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. 

The primary advantage PLDs have over custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs is that PLDs enable faster time-to-market because of their shorter design cycles. Users can program the PLD to implement their design, using software to create and revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. PLDs typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, which are customized to perform a limited fixed function. Custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, however, generally offer less flexibility, require longer fabrication lead times and higher up-front costs than PLDs. 

PLDs are standard components. This means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. As a result, the development cost of PLDs can be spread over a large number of users. Custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. ASSPs implement specific functions for a limited set of users. This involves a high up-front cost to users. Technology advances are enabling PLD companies to reduce costs considerably, making PLDs an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs. 

3 

An overview of typical PLD end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Products 

Integral to the success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that meet customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality and performance. Software design tools, IP cores, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our PLDs. Altogether, our PLDs and related IP, service and support form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. A brief overview of our PLD offerings follows and is not all-inclusive but does comprise the majority of our 

4 

revenues. Some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. We operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. 

Product Families 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Virtex FPGAs 

The Virtex-5 FPGA family consists of 24 devices and is the latest generation Virtex family and the PLD industry’s first product family manufactured using 65-nanometer (nm) process technology. The Virtex-5 family consists of four platforms: Virtex-5 LX FPGAs for logic-intensive designs, Virtex-5 LXT FPGAs for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, Virtex-5 SXT FPGAs for high-performance digital signal processing (DSP) with serial connectivity and Virtex-5 FXT FPGAs for embedded processing with serial connectivity. Within each platform are a number of offerings, differing primarily in the amount of logic, memory, clock and input/output (I/O) resources provided. These offerings enable customers to select the optimal mix of resources for their particular application. Currently, Xilinx is shipping devices from all platforms. Compared to previous 90-nm Virtex family products, this product family offers increased performance, density and features, while reducing dynamic power consumption. 

The 17-device Virtex-4 FPGA family consists of three platforms: LX, SX and FX. Virtex-4 LX FPGAs are optimized for logic-intensive designs, Virtex-4 SX FPGAs are optimized for high-performance DSP, and Virtex-4 FX FPGAs are optimized for embedded processing with serial connectivity. Virtex-4 devices are produced on 90-nm process technology. 

Prior generation Virtex families include Virtex-II Pro, Virtex-II, Virtex-E and the original Virtex family. 

5 

 Spartan FPGAs 

The Spartan-3 generation FPGAs were the PLD industry’s first 90-nm FPGAs and were developed as a programmable alternative to ASICs for new applications in high growth end markets such as consumer, automotive and low cost networking. The Spartan-3 generation is comprised of three primary platforms including the original Spartan-3 family, the Spartan-3E family, and the Spartan-3A family. The Spartan-3E family consists of five devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per logic cell. The Spartan-3A family consists of 14 devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per I/O. In addition, this family has devices targeted for cost sensitive, high performance signal processing applications and nonvolatile devices optimized for cost sensitive applications where security and board space are customer priorities. 

Prior generation Spartan families include Spartan-IIE, Spartan-II, Spartan XL and the original Spartan family. 

 EasyPath FPGAs 

EasyPath™ FPGAs use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard FPGAs and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. As a result, EasyPath FPGAs provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard FPGA devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an ASIC. EasyPath FPGAs are available for the higher density devices of the Virtex-II, Virtex-II Pro and Virtex-4 families. EasyPath FPGAs will also be available for the higher densities of the Virtex-5 families. Customers purchasing EasyPath FPGAs must meet certain minimum order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge. 

 CPLDs 

CPLDs operate on the low end of the programmable logic density spectrum. CPLDs are single chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. 

The CoolRunner-II family is the latest generation Xilinx CPLD family with six devices in production. CoolRunner-II CPLDs combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. While CoolRunner-II is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. 

The CoolRunner XPLA3 family was the first CPLD product to combine very low power consumption with high density logic and high I/O counts in a single device. This family consists of six devices. 

Prior generation CPLD families include the XC9500, XC9500XL and XC9500XV which offer low cost, high performance and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt, 3.3-volt and 2.5-volt systems, respectively. These families are widely used in communications and industrial applications. 

Support Products 

 Software Solutions 

We offer complete software solutions that enable customers to implement their design specifications into our PLDs. These software design tools combine a powerful technology with a flexible, easy-to-use graphical interface to help achieve the best possible designs within each customer’s project schedule, enabling use by designers with varying experience levels. Our software design tools operate on personal computers running Microsoft Windows Vista, XP and Linux operating systems. 

The Xilinx ISE® (Integrated Software Environment) Design Suite fits a wide range of customer needs. ISE software also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (EDA) software offerings and point-tool solutions to deliver the most flexible design environment available. 

All Xilinx FPGA and CPLD device families are supported by ISE software, including the newest Virtex, Spartan and CoolRunner device families. 

 Processing Solutions 

Xilinx offerings in the areas of DSP and embedded processing are aimed at solving system level problems of existing and non-traditional users such as system architects and software engineers. Embedded processing solutions enable new growth 

6 

for Xilinx beyond the PLD market segment by building and delivering a configurable processing platform, tools, and IP for specific vertical markets. 

 Configuration Solutions 

Xilinx offers a range of one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure Xilinx FPGAs. The PlatformFlash PROM (programmable read only memory) family is our newest offering. This family ranges in density from 1 to 128 megabits and offers full in-system programmability at the lowest cost per megabit of any Xilinx configuration solution. Older solutions include our XC1700 family (one-time programmable with density up to 16 megabits), and the XC1800 family (in-system programmable with density up to 4 megabits). Our PROM solutions support all of our FPGA devices. 

 Global Services 

To extend our customers’ technical capabilities and shorten their design times, we offer a portfolio of global services, which includes education, design and support services. In addition, we offer a personalized online technical resource, www.mysupport.xilinx.com. 

Please see information under the caption “Results of Operations – Net Revenues” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for information about our revenues from our product families. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development (R&D) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ICs, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of IP cores of logic and the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering power consumption. As a result of our R&D efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past years including the Virtex-5 and Virtex-4 series of FPGAs, and the Spartan-3 FPGA series. Additionally, we have made major enhancements to our IP core offerings and introduced new versions of our ISE software. To support embedded processing and DSP design on our platform FPGA devices, the Platform Studio tool suite and System Generator for DSP have been further enhanced. We extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 90-nm and 65-nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing technology and we are the first company in the PLD industry to ship 65-nm devices. 

Our R&D challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, our R&D expenses were $358.1 million, $388.1 million and $326.1 million, respectively. We believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant level of R&D effort. 

Sales and Distribution 

We sell our products to OEMs and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to OEMs or subcontract manufacturers. 

We use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. In general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. Distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. Distributors also provide vendor-managed inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our OEM customers. 

Whether Xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. In such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. 

In accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. Revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors’ end customers. 

7 

Avnet, Inc. (Avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006. As of March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007, Avnet accounted for 83% and 86% of the Company’s total accounts receivable, respectively. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 61%, 67% and 70% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also use other regional distributors throughout the world. From time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. We believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. Since PLDs are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for information about concentrations of credit risk and Note 15 for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. 

Backlog 

As of March 29, 2008, our backlog from OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $202.0 million, compared to $190.0 million as of March 31, 2007. Orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. As a result, backlogs from both OEM customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. 

Wafer Fabrication 

As a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our products. Rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba), Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko) and He Jian Technology (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Currently, UMC manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. Precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. 

Our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ICs and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies. 

In September 1995, we entered into a joint venture with UMC and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc. (USIC). In January 2000, as a result of the merger of USIC into UMC, our equity position in USIC was converted into shares of UMC, which are publicly traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. In fiscal 2007, we sold a portion of our UMC shares and we sold the remaining shares of our UMC investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Also see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

In fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with Seiko that was amended in fiscal 1998, 1999 and 2000. Seiko manufactures wafers for our older, more mature product lines. 

In October 2004, the Company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. The original agreement was extended to December 2008. The balance of the advance payment remaining was $4.5 million at March 29, 2008. 

Sort, Assembly and Test 

Wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by Xilinx. Sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. During the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. Following assembly, the packaged units are tested by Xilinx personnel at our San Jose, California, Dublin, Ireland or Singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. We purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from Siliconware Precision Industries Ltd. in Taiwan, Amkor Technology, Inc. in Korea and the Philippines and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. in Singapore. 

Quality Certification 

Xilinx has achieved ISO 9001 quality certification in our San Jose, California, Dublin, Ireland, Longmont, Colorado, Singapore and Albuquerque locations. In addition, Xilinx achieved 

8 

ISO 14001, TL 9000 and TS 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the San Jose, Dublin and Singapore locations and TL 9000 and TS16949 quality certifications in the Albuquerque location. 

Patents and Licenses 

While our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. As of March 29, 2008, we held 1,785 issued United States patents relating to our products, which vary in duration. We maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, software, IC architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to PLDs. We intend to vigorously protect our intellectual property. We believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may incur litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. However, any such litigation may or may not be successful. 

We have acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant sublicenses to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed with our software design tools. In addition, we have licensed certain software for internal use in product design. We are also licensed under certain third party patents and have provided some third parties licenses under Company patents. 

Employees 

As of March 29, 2008, we had 3,415 employees compared to 3,353 at the end of the prior fiscal year. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Certain information regarding the executive officers of Xilinx as of May 28, 2008 is set forth below:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

There are no family relationships among the executive officers of the Company or the Board of Directors. 

Moshe N. Gavrielov joined the Company in January 2008 as President and CEO and was appointed to the Board of Directors in February 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he served at Cadence Design Systems, Inc., an electronic design automation company, as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Verification Division from April 2005 through November 2007. Mr. Gavrielov served as CEO of Verisity Ltd., an electronic design automation company, from March 1998 to April 2005 prior to its acquisition by Cadence Design Systems, Inc. Prior to joining Verisity, Mr. Gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at LSI Corporation (formerly LSI Logic Corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including Executive Vice President of the Products Group, Senior Vice President and General Manager of International Marketing and Sales and Senior Vice President and General Manager of LSI Logic Europe plc. Prior to joining LSI Corporation, Mr. Gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at Digital Equipment Corporation and National Semiconductor Corporation. 

Scott R. Hover-Smoot joined the Company in October 2007 as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. From November 2001 to October 2007, Mr. Hover-Smoot served as Regional Counsel and Director of Legal Operations with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., an independent semiconductor foundry. He served as Vice President and General Counsel of California Micro Devices Corporation, a provider of application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from June 1994 to November 2001. Prior to joining California Micro Devices Corporation, Mr. Hover-Smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including Berliner-Cohen, Flehr, Hohbach, Test, Albritton & Herbert, and Lyon & Lyon. 

9 

Patrick W. Little joined the Company in March 2003 as Vice President and General Manager. He was promoted in March 2005 to Vice President of Worldwide Sales and to Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services in December 2005. Mr. Little assumed the position of Vice President and General Manager in February 2008. He was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Products and Market Development in April 2008. From September 1999 to March 2003, he served as President and CEO of Believe, Inc., a computer graphics imaging company. Mr. Little served as Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Rendition, Inc., a graphics IC company, from March 1998 to September 1999. He was General Manager of the Audio Business Division of Diamond Multimedia Systems, Inc., and held various senior management positions at Trident Microsystems, Inc. and Opti, Inc., from 1992 to 1998. 

Jon A. Olson joined the Company in June 2005 as Vice President, Finance and CFO. Mr. Olson was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Finance and CFO in August 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Olson spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including Vice President, Finance and Enterprise Services, Director of Finance. 

Boon C. Ooi joined the Company in November 2003 as Vice President, Worldwide Operations. Mr. Ooi was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Business Process Reengineering in November 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Ooi spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation serving in a variety of positions, including Vice President of the Corporate Technology Group and Director of Operations. 

Victor Peng joined the Company in April 2008 as Senior Vice President, Silicon Engineering Group. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Peng served as Corporate Vice President, Graphics Products Group at Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), a provider of processing solutions, from November 2005 to April 2008. Before joining AMD, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Silicon Engineering in the Graphics Products Group business unit at ATI Technologies, a graphics processor unit provider, from April 2005 until its acquisition by AMD. Before joining ATI Technologies, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Engineering at TZero Technologies, a fabless semiconductor company, from September 2004 to April 2005. From November 2000 to September 2004, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Engineering at MIPS Technologies, a semiconductor design IP company. 

Vincent F. Ratford joined the Company in January 2006 as Vice President of Marketing, Business Development and Silicon Architecture. Mr. Ratford was promoted to Vice President and General Manager in October 2007. He was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Solutions Development Group in April 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he served as President and CEO of AccelChip, Inc. (AccelChip), a provider of synthesis software tools for designing DSP systems, from July 2004 until its acquisition by Xilinx in January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Ratford operated the consulting firm, DeepTech Consulting, from April 2002 to July 2004. Mr. Ratford worked at Virage Logic Corporation, a provider of semiconductor IP, as Vice President of Marketing and Business Development from July 2000 to April 2002 and as Vice President of Sales and Marketing from February 1998 to July 2000. Before joining Virage Logic, Mr. Ratford served as Chief Operating Officer of the Microtec Division of Mentor Graphics, a provider of hardware and software design solutions to semiconductor companies, from October 1995 to December 1997. Before joining the Microtec Division, he was Director of Marketing for Mentor Graphics’ System Design Division from May 1993 to October 1995. 

Frank A. Tornaghi joined the Company in February 2008 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales in April 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Tornaghi spent 22 years at LSI Corporation. Mr. Tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from April 2006 until he joined the Company. He served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales at LSI Corporation from July 2001 to April 2006 and as Vice President, North America Sales, from May 1993 to July 2001. From 1984 until May 1993, Mr. Tornaghi held various management positions in sales at LSI Corporation. 

Additional Information 

Our Internet address is www.xilinx.com. We make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. Printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to Xilinx, Inc., Attn: Investor Relations, 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, CA 95124. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. The content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. 

10 

Additional information required by this

 Item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned “Net Revenues – Net Revenues by Geography” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

This annual report includes trademarks and service marks of Xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the United States and other countries. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS