ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 

The semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. 

The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. The down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. Weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in older, more stable industries. 

The nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. 

In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customer’s products and those products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our products, the design to production process requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition, we are increasingly dependent upon “turns,” orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter and we have historically derived a significant portion of our quarterly revenue during the last weeks of the quarter. These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer requirements. In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance. 

Global economic conditions, the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 

We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales. International sales accounted for approximately 61% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, and 60% and 59% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors and our regional headquarters in Ireland and Singapore. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. For example, we have sales and operations in the Asia Pacific region, Japan and Europe. Past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. Furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or U.S. military actions could impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 

11 

We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could adversely affect our business. 

In addition to international sales and support operations, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the U.S. All of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, other foreign governmental regulations, reduced protection for IP, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. Adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including:   timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities or “design wins”; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined IP cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and successful deployment of electronic systems by our customers. 

Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  

We are dependent on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. 

During fiscal 2008, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by UMC or in Japan, by Toshiba or Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields, and deliver them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and  

12  

existing process technologies. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee our foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. Any manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could disrupt our operations. 

We have established other sources of wafer supply for our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. However, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships requires the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. If we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations.  

Increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues.  

If greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at our production and test facilities. Such increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands. 

Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

The independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. UMC’s foundries in Taiwan and Toshiba’s and Seiko’s foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters. Any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. This type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.  

We are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. These factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 

If we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. 

Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera Corporation, Lattice Semiconductor Corporation and Actel Corporation, from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important competitive factors in the logic industry include:   product pricing; time-to-market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined IP cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. 

13 

Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. 

Other competitors include manufacturers of:  high-density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density CPLDs; high-performance DSP devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. 

Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the PLD market segment. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  

The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the PLD market segment.  

We could also face competition from our licensees. In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. Granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. 

Our failure to protect and defend our intellectual properly could impair our ability to compete effectively. 

We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. Assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation or indemnity claims and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

Considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares.  

As of March 29, 2008, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 280.5 million shares were outstanding. In addition, 68.9 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (Employee Stock Purchase Plan), and 32.1 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% convertible debentures due March 15, 2037 (debentures). The availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 

We rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly could result in business disruption.  

We rely in part on various information technology (IT) systems to manage our operations including financial reporting and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and  

14  

report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Further, these systems are subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failure. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption.  

If we do not successfully manage the transitions associated with our new management, our ability to compete could be adversely affected.  

On January 7, 2008, we announced the appointment of Moshe N. Gavrielov as our new President and CEO concurrent with the retirement of Willem P. Roelandts from these positions. Our new CEO has made organizational changes, including changes to our management team and may make future changes to our Company’s structure. It is important for us to successfully manage these transitions as our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively.  

If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. 

We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act). Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. Further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies.  

Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.  

From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.  

We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 

Our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating and even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions. Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions due to the increased concerns related to the U.S. sub-prime mortgage market that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. As of March 29, 2008, approximately 4% of our investment portfolio consisted of AAA-rated auction rate securities which are secured primarily by pools of student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) that are guaranteed by the U. S. Department of Education. These securities experienced failed auctions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 due to liquidity issues in the global credit markets. In a failed auction, the interest rates are reset to a maximum rate defined by the contractual terms for each security. We have collected and expect to collect all interest payable on these securities when due. As of March 29, 2008, the securities were reclassified from short-term to long-term investments on the consolidated balance sheet to reflect the securities’ final maturity dates since there can be no assurance of a successful auction in the future. The auction rate securities described above are a type of asset-backed securities. All other asset-backed securities comprised less than 5% of our investment portfolio as of March 29, 2008 and were all AAA rated with the exception of approximately $37.0 million of asset-backed securities that were downgraded in April 2008 to AA or A rating. These asset-backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, mortgage-backed securities with no direct sub-prime exposure and credit card debt. Substantially all of the other mortgage-backed securities in the investment portfolio are AAA rated, were issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises and agencies and represented less than 9% of the portfolio as of March 29, 2008. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset-backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt and equity securities is judged to be other-than-temporary. Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. Please see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information about our investments. 

15  

Our products could have quality problems which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. 

We develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. Despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. Product defects or other performance problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. Product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. Any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. 

In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous.  

In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets, taxes, legal matters and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. If these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. 

We depend on distributors, primarily Avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment.  

We rely on distributors throughout the world to assist us in demand creation, technical support, order processing and order fulfillment. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 61% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2008 and as of March 29, 2008, Avnet accounted for 83% of our accounts receivable. If a key distributor such as Avnet materially defaults on a contract or fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer.  

Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins.  

The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. However, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. 

A number of factors can impact our gross margins. 

A number of factors, including our product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies and various manufacturing cost variables cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES