Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

This section includes a discussion of our results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2011. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Overview  

Our Company is dedicated to three transformational goals that we believe will drive continued growth and leadership in a dynamic industry: know more about our customers and how to service them than anyone else; use conversion and processing technology to extract more value from the materials we manage; and continuously improve our operational efficiency. Our strategy supports diversion from landfills and converting waste into valuable products as customers seek more economically and environmentally sound alternatives. We intend to pursue achievement of our long-term goals in the short-term through efforts to:  

   Ÿ    Grow our markets by implementing customer-focused growth, through customer segmentation and through strategic acquisitions, while maintaining our pricing discipline and increasing the amount of recyclable materials we manage each year;  

   Ÿ    Grow our customer loyalty;  

   Ÿ    Grow into new markets by investing in greener technologies; and  

   Ÿ    Pursue initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure.  

These efforts will be supported by ongoing improvements in information technologies. We believe that execution of our strategy will provide long-term value to our stockholders.  

Our 2011 results of operations reflect the impact of improved recyclable commodity prices and recycling volumes, our discipline in pricing and our continued investment in our strategic initiatives, including our July 28, 2011 acquisition of the primary operations of Oakleaf Global Holdings (“Oakleaf”). Highlights of our financial results for 2011 include:  

   Ÿ    Revenues of $13.4 billion compared with $12.5 billion in 2010, an increase of $863 million, or 6.9%. This increase in revenues is primarily attributable to:  

   Ÿ    Internal revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal business of 1.8% in the current period, which increased revenue by $193 million;  

   Ÿ    Increases from recyclable commodity prices of $216 million; increases primarily from our fuel surcharge program of $169 million; and increases from foreign currency translation of $31 million; and  

   Ÿ    Increases associated with acquired businesses of $449 million, of which $251 million was related to Oakleaf;  

   Ÿ    Internal revenue growth from volume was negative 1.5% in 2011, compared with negative 2.6% in 2010. The year-over-year decline in internal revenue growth due to volume was $187 million, of which $94 million relates to the oil spill clean-up project along the Gulf Coast in 2010. Revenue declines due to volume from our collection and waste-to-energy businesses were offset in part by revenue increases from our recycling brokerage business and our material recovery facilities;  

   Ÿ    Operating expenses of $8.5 billion, or 63.8% of revenues, compared with $7.8 billion, or 62.5% of revenues, in 2010. This increase of $717 million, or 9.2%, is due primarily to higher customer rebates related to increased recyclable commodity prices and volumes; the impact of higher fuel prices on direct fuel costs and indirect fuel costs included in subcontractor costs; and further increases in subcontractor costs associated in large part with our acquisition of Oakleaf, all of which have related revenue increases as noted above;  

29  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $90 million, or 6.2%, from $1,461 million in 2010 to $1,551 million in 2011, primarily due to costs incurred to support our strategic growth plans and initiatives, including our acquisition of Oakleaf, and cost savings programs. We began to see the associated benefits of our cost savings programs in the second half of the year and expect the benefits to increase throughout 2012;  

   Ÿ    Income from operations of $2.0 billion, or 15.2% of revenues, in 2011 compared with $2.1 billion, or 16.9% of revenues, in 2010;  

   Ÿ    Net income attributable to Waste Management, Inc. of $961 million, or $2.04 per diluted share for 2011, as compared with $953 million, or $1.98 per diluted share in 2010.  

   Ÿ    Net cash provided by operating activities increased 8.5% from $2.3 billion in 2010 to $2.5 billion in 2011. We returned $1.2 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases in 2011, compared with $1.1 billion in 2010.  

The following explanation of certain notable items that impacted the comparability of our 2011 results with 2010 has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2011 results were affected by the following:  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a pre-tax charge of $24 million as a result of a litigation loss, which had a negative impact of $0.03 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax restructuring charges, excluding charges recognized in the operating results of Oakleaf, of $17 million related to our cost savings programs. These charges were primarily related to employee severance and benefit costs and had a negative impact of $0.02 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $11 million related to the Oakleaf acquisition, which includes the operating results of Oakleaf and related interest expense and integration costs. These items had a negative impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a favorable pre-tax benefit of $9 million from a revision to an environmental remediation liability at a closed landfill, which had a positive impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of non-cash, pre-tax asset impairment charges of $9 million primarily related to two of our medical waste services facilities. The impairment charges had a negative impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a tax benefit of $19 million due to favorable tax audit settlements and favorable adjustments relating to the finalization of our 2010 tax returns. These items had a positive impact of $0.04 on our diluted earnings per share.  

Our 2010 results were affected by the following:  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax charges aggregating $55 million related to remediation and closure costs at five closed sites, which had a negative impact of $0.07 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of net tax charges of $32 million due to refinements in estimates of our deferred state income taxes and the finalization of our 2009 tax returns, partially offset by favorable tax audit settlements, all of which, combined, had a negative impact of $0.07 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a net favorable pre-tax benefit of $46 million for litigation and associated costs, which had a favorable impact of $0.06 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   Ÿ    The recognition of net pre-tax charges of $26 million as a result of the withdrawal of certain of our union bargaining units from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan, which had a negative impact of $0.03 on our diluted earnings per share.  

30  

Table of Contents 

We finished 2011 on a positive note with strong fourth quarter results that we intend to build upon going into 2012. Our employees are focused on continuing the progress that we have made on our strategic growth initiatives and cost savings programs. In 2012, we expect to continue to accomplish our goals of growing our revenue, expanding our operating margins, increasing our return on invested capital and returning cash to our shareholders.  

Free Cash Flow — As is our practice, we are presenting free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity, in our disclosures because we use this measure in the evaluation and management of our business. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures, plus proceeds from divestitures of businesses (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets. We believe it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. Free cash flow is not intended to replace “Net cash provided by operating activities,” which is the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure. However, we believe free cash flow gives investors greater insight into how we view our liquidity. Nonetheless, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt service requirements.  

Our calculation of free cash flow and reconciliation to “Net cash provided by operating activities” is shown in the table below (in millions), and may not be the same as similarly-titled measures presented by other companies:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Proceeds from divestitures of businesses for the year ended December 31, 2011 included the receipt of a payment of $17 million related to a note receivable from a prior year divestiture. This repayment is included as a component of “Other” within “Cash flows from investing activities” in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 to the comparable period in 2010, the change is primarily attributable to decreases in our income tax payments, which have positively affected our cash flow from operations this year, as well as a cash payment of $37 million made when our Canadian hedges matured in December 2010. This current year increase was partially offset by a favorable cash benefit of $77 million resulting from a litigation settlement in April 2010 and a $65 million federal tax refund in the third quarter of 2010 related to the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary in 2009.  

The increase in capital expenditures is a result of our increased spending on natural gas vehicles and fueling infrastructure, information technology infrastructure and growth initiatives, as well as our taking advantage of bonus depreciation. The year-over-year increase in capital expenditures was also affected by timing differences associated with cash payments for the previous years’ fourth quarter capital spending. We generally use a significant portion of our free cash flow on capital spending in the fourth quarter of each year. A more significant portion of our fourth quarter 2010 spending was paid in cash in 2011 than in the preceding year.  

Our ability to generate $1.2 billion in free cash flow in 2011 enabled us to return $1.2 billion in cash to stockholders during the year through the payment of $637 million in dividends and the repurchase of $575 million of our common stock.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Acquisition of Oakleaf Global Holdings — On July 28, 2011, we paid $432 million, net of cash received of $4 million and inclusive of certain adjustments, to acquire Oakleaf. Oakleaf provides outsourced waste and recycling services through a nationwide network of third-party haulers. The operations we acquired generated approximately $580 million in revenues in 2010. We acquired Oakleaf to advance our growth and transformation strategies and increase our national accounts customer base while enhancing our ability to provide comprehensive environmental solutions. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred $1 million of acquisition-related costs, which are classified as “Selling, general and administrative” expenses. Since the acquisition date, Oakleaf has recognized revenues of $265 million and net income of less than $1 million, which are included in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

The following table shows adjustments to the preliminary allocation of the purchase price of Oakleaf to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value from September 30, 2011 to December 31, 2011 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) The purchase price adjustments relate primarily to changes in the valuation of the customer and vendor relationships and evaluation of physical and market conditions of equipment.  

The following table presents the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to intangible assets (amounts in millions, except for amortization periods):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Goodwill of $327 million was calculated as the excess of the consideration paid over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill is a result of expected synergies from combining the Company’s operations with Oakleaf’s national accounts customer base and vendor network. The vendor-hauler network expands our partnership with third-party service providers. In many cases we can provide vendor-haulers with opportunities to maintain and increase their business by utilizing our extensive post-collection network. We believe this will generate significant benefits for the Company and for the vendor-haulers. Goodwill acquired has been allocated to our four geographic Groups based on our preliminary valuations. Goodwill related to this acquisition is not deductible for income tax purposes.  

32  

Table of Contents 

The following pro forma consolidated results of operations have been prepared as if the acquisition of Oakleaf occurred at January 1, 2010 (in millions, except per share amounts):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial Information  

Goodwill Impairment Testing — In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) amended authoritative guidance associated with goodwill impairment testing. The amended guidance provides companies the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before performing the two-step impairment test. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. The amendments are effective for goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011; however, early adoption was permitted. The Company’s early adoption of this guidance in 2011 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. Additional information on impairment testing can be found in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements — In October 2009, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. This amended guidance addresses the determination of when individual deliverables within an arrangement are required to be treated as separate units of accounting and modifies the manner in which consideration is allocated across the separately identifiable deliverables. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements became effective for the Company on January 1, 2011. The new accounting standard has been applied prospectively to arrangements entered into or materially modified after the date of adoption. The adoption of this guidance has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities — In June 2009, the FASB issued revised authoritative guidance associated with the consolidation of variable interest entities. The new guidance primarily uses a qualitative approach for determining whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and, is therefore, required to consolidate the entity. This new guidance generally defines the primary beneficiary as the entity that has (i) the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity that can most significantly impact the entity’s performance and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses and the right to receive benefits from the variable interest entity that could be significant from the perspective of the entity. The new guidance also requires that we continually reassess whether we are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity rather than conducting a reassessment only upon the occurrence of specific events.  

As a result of our implementation of this guidance, effective January 1, 2010, we deconsolidated certain final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation trusts because we share power over significant activities of these trusts with others. Our financial interests in these entities are discussed in Note 20. The deconsolidation of these trusts has not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or cash flows during the periods presented.  

Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions  

In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methods. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that present the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for  

33  

Table of Contents 

 landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments, deferred income taxes and reserves associated with our insured and self-insured claims. Each of these items is discussed in additional detail below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements.  

Landfills  

Accounting for landfills requires that significant estimates and assumptions be made regarding (i) the cost to construct and develop each landfill asset; (ii) the estimated fair value of final capping, closure and post-closure asset retirement obligations, which must consider both the expected cost and timing of these activities; (iii) the determination of each landfill’s remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and (iv) the airspace associated with each final capping event.  

Landfill Costs — We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs.  

Final Capping Costs — We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate final landfill capping costs to specific final capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post-closure monitoring and maintenance. The estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also consider when the costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post-closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Remaining Permitted Airspace — Our engineers, in consultation with third-party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography.  

Expansion Airspace — We include currently unpermitted expansion airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria:  

   Ÿ    Personnel are actively working on the expansion of an existing landfill, including efforts to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals;  

34  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    It is likely that the approvals will be received within the normal application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill is located;  

   Ÿ    We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;  

   Ÿ    There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could impair the success of such expansion;  

   Ÿ    Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and  

   Ÿ    Airspace and related costs, including additional closure and post-closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design.  

For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if certain of these criteria are no longer met as long as we continue to believe we will ultimately obtain the permit, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill-specific review process that includes approval of our principal financial officer and a review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 33 landfill sites with expansions at December 31, 2011, 11 landfills required the principal financial officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Seven of these landfills required approval by our principal financial officer because of community or political opposition that could impede the expansion process. The remaining four landfills required approval primarily due to local zoning restrictions or because the permit application processes do not meet the one- or five-year requirements.  

When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement cost related to final capping, and closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill.  

Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined in cubic yards, an airspace utilization factor, or AUF, is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and is then adjusted to account for settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site-specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate, and operating practices. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi- level review by our engineering group, and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements.  

After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed as waste is received and deposited at the landfill by dividing the costs by the corresponding number of tons. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change.  

It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post-closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts, could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates, or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most  

35  

Table of Contents 

 significantly, if it is determined that the expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of the landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment or incur significantly higher amortization expense. If at any time management makes the decision to abandon the expansion effort, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately.  

Environmental Remediation Liabilities  

We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by our operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party (“PRP”) investigations, settlements, and certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials, external contractor costs and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on a number of estimates and assumptions.  

Where it is probable that a liability has been incurred, we estimate costs required to remediate sites based on site-specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the cost for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third-party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:  

   Ÿ    Management’s judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties’ sites;  

   Ÿ    Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation;  

   Ÿ    The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and  

   Ÿ    The typical allocation of costs among PRPs unless the actual allocation has been determined.  

Asset Impairments  

Our long-lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. We monitor the carrying value of our long-lived assets for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances, including management decisions pertaining to such assets, indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or changes in circumstances are referred to as impairment indicators. If an impairment indicator occurs, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group; (ii) actual third-party valuations; and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market for similar assets. If the fair value of an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs and is included in the “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment and projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized, which could impact our ability to accurately assess whether an asset has been impaired.  

36  

Table of Contents 

There are other considerations for impairments of landfills, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, as described below.  

Landfills — The assessment of impairment indicators and the recoverability of our capitalized costs associated with landfills and related expansion projects require significant judgment due to the unique nature of the waste industry, the highly regulated permitting process and the sensitive estimates involved. During the review of a landfill expansion application, a regulator may initially deny the expansion application although the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace, or a landfill may be required to cease accepting waste, prior to receipt of the expansion permit. However, such events occur in the ordinary course of business in the waste industry and do not necessarily result in impairment of our landfill assets because, after consideration of all facts, such events may not affect our belief that we will ultimately obtain the expansion permit. As a result, our tests of recoverability, which generally make use of a probability-weighted cash flow estimation approach, may indicate that no impairment loss should be recorded. At December 31, 2011, three of our landfill sites in two jurisdictions in the Company’s Midwest Group, for which we believe receipt of expansion permits is probable, had ceased accepting waste. The net recorded capitalized landfill asset cost for these three sites was $469 million at December 31, 2011. We performed tests of recoverability for these landfills and the undiscounted cash flows resulting from our probability-weighted estimation approach significantly exceeded the carrying values of each of these three sites.  

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment.  

We assess whether a goodwill impairment exists using both qualitative and quantitative assessments. Our qualitative assessment involves determining whether events or circumstances exist that indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If based on this qualitative assessment we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we will not perform a quantitative assessment.  

If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to perform a qualitative assessment, we perform a quantitative assessment or two-step impairment test to determine whether a goodwill impairment exists at the reporting unit. The first step in our quantitative assessment identifies potential impairments by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. Fair value is typically estimated using an income approach or a combination of the income approach and market approach when applicable. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows of our reporting units. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted-average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon our reporting units’ expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business. The market approach estimates fair value by measuring the aggregate market value of publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics to our business as a multiple of their reported cash flows. We then apply that multiple to our reporting units’ cash flows to estimate their fair values. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using valuation inputs from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our reporting units.  

Fair value computed by these two methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that these two methods provide a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of our reporting units.  

We assess whether other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments exist by comparing the fair value of the asset with its carrying value. Fair value is typically estimated using an income approach for the respective asset, as described above. If the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, an impairment would be recognized in the amount of the excess.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Refer to Note 6 to the Consolidating Financial Statements for additional information related to goodwill impairment considerations made during the reported periods.  

Deferred Income Taxes  

Deferred income taxes are based on the difference between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred income tax provision represents the change during the reporting period in the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, net of the effect of acquisitions and dispositions. Deferred tax assets include tax loss and credit carry-forwards and are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We establish reserves for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions may be challenged and potentially disallowed. When facts and circumstances change, we adjust these reserves through our provision for income taxes.  

Insured and Self-Insured Claims  

We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation insurance programs. Our liabilities associated with the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, are based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from our assumptions used. Estimated recoveries associated with our insured claims are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable.  

Results of Operations  

Operating Revenues  

We currently manage and evaluate our principal operations through five Groups. Our four geographic Groups, which are comprised of our Eastern, Midwest, Southern and Western Groups, provide collection, transfer, disposal (in both solid waste and hazardous waste landfills) and recycling services. Our fifth Group is the Wheelabrator Group, which provides waste-to-energy services and manages waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production plants. These five Groups are our reportable segments.  

We also provide additional services that are not managed through our five Groups, including the Oakleaf operations we acquired on July 28, 2011, recycling brokerage services, electronic recycling services, in-plant services, landfill gas-to-energy services, integrated medical waste services and the impacts of investments that we are making in expanded service offerings and solutions. Part of our expansion of services includes offering portable self-storage services and fluorescent bulb and universal waste mail-back through our LampTracker® program. In addition, we have made investments that involve the acquisition and development of interests in oil and gas producing properties. These operations are presented as “Other” in the table below. Shown below (in millions) is the contribution to revenues during each year provided by our five Groups and our Other services:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

38  

Table of Contents 

Our operating revenues generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, recycling and waste-to-energy services and from sales of commodities by our recycling, waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy operations. Revenues from our collection operations are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility or MRF and our disposal costs. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue generally consists of tipping fees and the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The fees we charge for our collection, disposal, transfer and recycling services generally include fuel surcharges, which are indexed to current market costs for fuel. Our waste-to-energy revenues, which are generated by our Wheelabrator Group, are based on the type and weight or volume of waste received at our waste-to-energy facilities and IPPs and amounts charged for the sale of energy and steam. Our “Other” lines of business includes Oakleaf, our landfill gas-to-energy operations, Port-O-Let® services, portable self-storage, fluorescent lamp recycling and oil and gas producing properties. Intercompany revenues between our operations have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The mix of operating revenues from our major lines of business is reflected in the table below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues (dollars in millions) along with an explanation of the significant components of the current period changes:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Calculated by dividing the amount of current year increase or decrease by the prior year’s total company revenue adjusted to exclude the impacts of current year divestitures ($12,513 million and $11,789 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively).  

 (b)  The amounts reported herein represent the changes in our revenue attributable to average yield for the total Company. We also analyze the changes in average yield in terms of related-business revenues in order to  

39  

Table of Contents 

    differentiate the changes in yield attributable to our pricing strategies from the changes that are caused by market-driven price changes in commodities. The following table summarizes changes in revenues from average yield on a related-business basis (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (i) Calculated by dividing the increase or decrease for the current year by the prior year’s related business revenue, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year. The table below summarizes the related business revenues for each year, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (ii) Average revenue growth for yield for “Collection and disposal” excludes all electricity-related revenues generated by our Wheelabrator Group and our landfill gas-to-energy operations, which are reported as “Electricity” revenues.  

Our revenues increased $863 million, or 6.9%, and $724 million, or 6.1%, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The year-over-year change in revenues for both periods has been driven by (i) market factors, including higher recyclable commodity prices; higher diesel fuel prices, which increase revenues provided by our fuel surcharge program; and foreign currency translation, which affects revenues from our Canadian operations; (ii) acquisitions, particularly the acquisition of Oakleaf, which increased consolidated revenues by $251 million for 2011; and (iii) revenue growth from average yield on our collection and disposal operations. Offsetting these revenue increases were revenue declines due to lower volumes.  

The following provides further details associated with our period-to-period change in revenues.  

Average yield  

Collection and disposal average yield — This measure reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer, landfill and waste-to-energy disposal operations, exclusive of volume  

40  

Table of Contents 

 changes. Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield during both years includes not only base rate changes and environmental and service fee increases, but also (i) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to both the types of services provided and the geographic locations where our services are provided; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business; and (iii) price decreases to retain customers.  

In both 2011 and 2010, our revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield demonstrates our commitment to our pricing strategies. This increase in revenue from yield was primarily driven by our collection operations, which experienced yield growth in all lines of business and in every geographic Group. As discussed below, increased collection revenues due to average yield have been more than offset by revenue declines from lower collection volumes. However, revenue growth from yield on base business and our efforts toward controlling variable costs continue to favorably influence margin changes in our collection line of business.  

In 2011, revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield was $193 million, or 1.8%, as compared with the prior year. This revenue increase from yield was primarily driven by our collection operations; however, we also experienced yield growth from our disposal operations. Our 1.8% increase for 2011 is less than the 2.3% increase for 2010. This is due in large part to our residential line of business, in which we have experienced downward pressure on our revenue growth from yield across most of our geographic Groups, most notably in our Eastern and Southern Groups. Due to competition, it has become increasingly difficult to retain customers and to win new contracts at current average rates; as a result, in many instances, the Company has offered increased services, principally recycling services, when bidding on or renewing residential contracts and pursuing residential subscription business. Additional recycling services are typically at lower rates.This combination of increased competition and bundling of complementary services, such as recycling, in the residential line of business has put added pressure on our revenue growth from yield.  

Our total collection and disposal revenue growth from yield has also been negatively affected during 2011, by factors including the changes in the mix of our temporary and permanent customers in our industrial business, particularly in North and South Florida. Additionally, we saw a $5 million yield decline in our waste-to-energy facilities, primarily driven by the expiration of a long-term contract at one of our waste-to-energy operations in South Florida in August 2011. We expect this negative trend to continue into 2012 due to the expiration of a similar long-term contract that will occur at the end of March 2012. Although these factors discussed above negatively affected our revenue growth from yield in 2011 as compared with 2010, we did see a favorable rate of revenue growth from yield in our commercial line of business during 2011 as compared with the prior year. This favorable impact was driven by both price increases and additional service fees. Overall, we have found that increasing our revenue growth from yield in today’s market is a challenge given the reduced volume levels resulting from the economic slowdown, the increased service offerings in many of our new contracts, and the highly competitive environment. Despite these headwinds, we continue to maintain our pricing discipline in order to improve yield on our base business.  

Revenues from our environmental fee, which are included in average yield on collection and disposal, increased by $37 million and $33 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Environmental fee revenues totaled $288 million in 2011 as compared with $251 million in 2010 and $218 million in 2009.  

Recycling commodities — Increases in the prices of the recycling commodities we sold resulted in an increase in revenues of $216 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. For the first nine months of 2011, our overall commodity prices increased approximately 26% as compared with the first nine months of the prior year. However, during the fourth quarter of 2011, we saw a decline of approximately 8% in commodity prices due to increased supply and lower demand.  

In 2010, higher recycling commodity prices were the principal driver of our revenue increase of $423 million as compared with 2009. Market prices for recyclable commodities increased significantly from the near-historic lows experienced in late 2008 and early 2009. For the twelve months of 2010, overall commodity prices increased approximately 57% as compared with 2009.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Fuel surcharges and mandated fees — These revenues, which are predominantly generated by our fuel surcharge program, increased by $169 million and $69 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This increase is directly attributable to higher national average prices for diesel fuel that we use for our fuel surcharge program. The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to the pass-through of fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal governmental agencies at our landfills and transfer stations. These mandated fees have not had a significant impact on the comparability of revenues for the periods included in the table above.  

Volume — Our revenue decline due to volume was $187 million, or 1.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2011. This is a notable improvement in the rate of revenue decline from the prior year when revenue decline due to volume was $304 million, or 2.6%. Volume declines are generally attributable to economic conditions, increased pricing, competition and increasing focus on waste reduction and diversion by consumers. Additionally, the oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast in 2010 unfavorably impacted our year-over-year volume change by $94 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

In 2011, volume declines from our collection business accounted for $327 million of volume-related revenue decline. We experienced commercial and residential collection revenue declines due to lower volume that we attribute to the overall weakness in the economy, as well as the effects of pricing, competition and diversion of waste by consumers. Our industrial collection operations continued to be negatively affected by the current economic environment due to the construction slowdown across the United States. Lower third-party volumes in our transfer station operations also caused revenue declines in the current year and can generally be attributed to economic conditions and the effects of pricing and competition. Furthermore, as noted above, the overall year-over-year comparison of volumes in the collection line of business was unfavorably impacted by volume we received from the oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast in 2010. Additionally, in 2011, we experienced revenue declines at our waste-to-energy facilities, primarily driven by the expiration of a long-term electric power capacity agreement, which was offset to some extent by increases in waste tons processed and electricity produced.  

Revenue declines due to volume detailed above were offset in part by revenue increases of $101 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily from year-over-year volume improvements in our recycling brokerage business and in our material recovery facilities. Our continued pursuit of municipal volumes as well as the addition of new single stream recycling facilities during 2011 contributed to these revenue increases due to volume. We also experienced volume-related revenue increases of $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from our strategic growth businesses and our landfill gas-to-energy operations. Additionally, our total landfill revenues increased $41 million in 2011 due to higher third-party volumes as compared with the prior year, primarily driven by higher special waste volumes in our Eastern and Midwest geographic Groups. However, our landfill municipal solid waste volumes continued to decline in 2011 as compared with the prior year due to economic conditions, increased pricing, competition and increased focus on waste reduction and diversion by consumers.  

In 2010, our collection business accounted for $254 million of the total volume-related revenue decline. We experienced commercial and residential collection volume declines that we attributed to the overall weakness in the economy, as well as the effects of pricing, competition and diversion of waste by consumers. Our industrial collection operations were negatively affected by the economic environment due to the construction slowdown across the United States. The overall volume decline in the collection line of business was offset in part by an increase in volumes of $99 million associated with oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast. Lower third-party volumes in our transfer station operations also caused revenue declines in 2010, and can generally be attributed to economic conditions and the effects of pricing and competition. However, in 2010, our landfill revenues increased due to higher third-party volumes. This increase was principally due to higher special waste volumes in our Midwest and Southern Groups, driven in part by our focus on our customers and better meeting their needs.  

Acquisitions and divestitures — Revenues increased $449 million and $240 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, due to acquisitions. The significant revenue increase due to acquisitions in 2011 was principally associated with Oakleaf, included in our “Other” business, demonstrating our current focus on identifying strategic growth opportunities in new, complementary lines of business. Additionally, revenue increased due to acquisitions in our collection, recycling and waste-to-energy lines of business in both periods. Divestitures accounted for decreased revenues of $2 million in each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Operating Expenses  

Our operating expenses include (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs discussed below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are affected by variables such as volumes, distance and fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include interest accretion on landfill liabilities, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs and other landfill site costs; (ix) risk management costs, which include auto liability, workers’ compensation, general liability and insurance and claim costs; and (x) other operating costs, which include, among other costs, equipment and facility rent, property taxes, utilities and supplies.  

Our operating expenses increased $717 million, or 9.2%, when comparing 2011 with 2010 and increased $583 million, or 8.1%, when comparing 2010 with 2009. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 63.8% in 2011, 62.5% in 2010 and 61.4% in 2009. The increases in our operating expenses during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 can largely be attributed to the following:  

Higher market prices for recyclable commodities — In both 2011 and 2010, increased market prices for recyclable commodities was the main driver of the increase in cost of goods sold, as presented in the table below, primarily due to customer recycling rebates, which also resulted in increased revenues and earnings. For the first nine months of 2011, our overall commodity prices increased approximately 26% as compared with the first nine months of the prior year. However, during the fourth quarter of 2011, we saw a decline of approximately 8% in commodity prices due to higher supply and lower demand. During 2010, market prices for recyclable commodities increased significantly from the near-historic lows experienced in late 2008 and early 2009, reflecting a 57% increase in 2010 as compared with 2009. Increases in cost of goods sold accounted for 41% and 49% of the year-over-year increases in total operating expenses during 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Fuel cost increases — Higher market prices for fuel caused increases in both our direct fuel costs and our subcontractor costs in both 2011 and 2010. On average, diesel fuel prices increased 29% in 2011 and 21% in 2010 as compared with the respective prior years. Diesel fuel prices averaged $3.85, $2.99 and $2.46 per gallon for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We believe the total impact of fuel cost increases, when considering both the impact to our direct fuel costs and an estimate of the impact to our subcontractor costs, accounted for approximately 23% and 17% of the total year-over-year increase in operating expenses during 2011 and 2010, respectively. Increased revenues attributable to our fuel surcharge offset the unfavorable impact of higher fuel costs in 2011 and partially offset the unfavorable impact of higher fuel costs in 2010.  

Acquisitions and growth initiatives — In both 2011 and 2010, we experienced cost increases attributable to recently acquired businesses and our various growth and business development initiatives. We estimate that these cost increases, which affected each of the operating cost categories identified in the table below, accounted for approximately 42% and 17% of our $717 million and $583 million increases in operating expenses during 2011 and 2010, respectively. Recent acquisitions included the purchase of Oakleaf and a number of collection and recycling operations. In particular, the acquisition of Oakleaf increased operating costs by $213 million in the current year, primarily impacting subcontractor costs and, to a lesser extent, the cost of goods sold and other categories. The increase in operating expenses resulting from acquired businesses was more than offset by increased revenues from acquired businesses.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Canadian exchange rates — When comparing the average exchange rates for 2011 and 2010 to the prior year, the Canadian exchange rate strengthened by 4% and 10%, respectively, which increased our expenses in all operating cost categories. The strengthening of the Canadian dollar increased our total operating expenses by $20 million for 2011 as compared with 2010 and $52 million for 2010 as compared with 2009.  

Volume declines — During 2011 and 2010, we continued to experience volume declines as a result of the ongoing weakness of the overall economic environment, pricing, competition and increased focus on waste reduction and diversion by consumers. We continue to manage our fixed costs and reduce our variable costs as we experience volume declines and have achieved cost savings as a result. These cost decreases have benefited each of the operating cost categories identified in the table below except for the cost of goods sold category, which increased as a result of additional customer rebates due to a 13% increase in recyclable material tons sold in 2011.  

The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The significant period-to-period changes in our operating expenses by category are discussed below.  

Labor and related benefits — The increases in 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to higher hourly and salaried wages due to merit increases and additional expenses incurred from acquisitions and growth opportunities, offset in part by cost savings that have been achieved as volumes have declined.  

The comparability of our labor and related benefits costs for the periods presented has also been affected by costs incurred primarily associated with the withdrawal of certain bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans. These costs increased 2010 expense by $26 million and 2009 expense by $9 million.  

Maintenance and repairs — Comparing 2011 with 2010, the increase was due to higher costs in our geographic Groups largely attributable to increased fleet maintenance costs, which include services provided by third-parties, tires, parts and internal shop labor costs. The increase in expense for tires and parts reflects the worldwide increase in commodity prices.  

Subcontractor costs — The current year increase in subcontractor costs was primarily a result of the Oakleaf acquisition, increased diesel fuel prices, other recent acquisitions, our various growth and business development initiatives and additional costs associated with servicing our in-plant services customers. Oakleaf utilizes a nationwide network of third-party haulers to service its customers, which increased our subcontractor costs by $153 million during the second half of 2011 after completing the acquisition on July 28, 2011. These increases were partially offset by the impact of an additional $54 million in prior year costs attributable to oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast during 2010. The 2010 increase in subcontractor costs was largely the result of these oil spill clean-up activities, as well as higher diesel fuel prices when compared with 2009.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Cost of goods sold — The cost increases during 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to increases in the recycling commodity rebates we pay to our customers as a result of higher market prices for recyclable commodities. The increase in costs in 2011 was also driven by (i) increases in the volume of materials processed at our existing recycling facilities; and (ii) increases resulting from the Oakleaf acquisition and other recently acquired businesses.  

Fuel — The costs increases for 2011 and 2010 were a result of higher market prices for diesel fuel.  

Landfill operating costs — The changes in these costs during 2011 and 2010 were due largely to the recognition of additional estimated expense associated with environmental remediation liabilities of $50 million at four closed sites during 2010. During 2011, the Company recognized a $9 million favorable revision to an environmental liability at one of these sites based on the estimated cost of the remediation alternative selected by the EPA.  

The changes in this category for the years presented were also significantly impacted by the changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets. As a result of changes in U.S. Treasury rates, we recognized $17 million of unfavorable adjustments during 2011, $2 million of unfavorable adjustments during 2010, and $35 million of favorable adjustments during 2009. During 2011, the discount rate we use decreased from 3.50% to 2.00%. Over the course of 2010, the discount rate decreased slightly from 3.75% to 3.50% and during 2009, the rate increased from 2.25% to 3.75%. 

Risk management — The increase in risk management costs during 2011 was primarily a result of increased costs associated with auto and general liability claims in the current year and the prior year recognition of favorable adjustments associated with prior period claims that were higher than similar favorable adjustments recognized during 2011.  

Other — The 2011 increase was attributable, in part, to our various growth and business development initiatives and recently acquired businesses, including Oakleaf. These increases were partially offset by prior year costs related to the oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast in 2010. The 2010 increase was attributable, in part, to our various growth and business development initiatives, oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast, and recently acquired businesses. These cost increases in 2010 were partially offset by an increase in gains recognized from the sale of surplus real estate assets.  

Selling, General and Administrative  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor and related benefit costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity-based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees; and (iv) other selling, general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility-related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our “Other” selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $90 million, or 6.2%, and $97 million, or 7.1% when comparing 2011 with 2010 and 2010 with 2009, respectively. The increases in both years are largely due to (i) increased costs of approximately $53 million and $52 million during 2011 and 2010, respectively, incurred to support our strategic plan to grow into new markets and provide expanded service offerings, including our acquisition of Oakleaf in 2011 and (ii) increased costs of $9 million and $23 million during 2011 and 2010, respectively, resulting from improvements we are making to our information technology systems. Additionally, during 2011 we experienced increased consulting costs of $37 million incurred in connection with the start-up phase of new cost savings programs focusing on procurement and operational and back-office efficiency. Our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 11.6% in 2011, 11.7% in 2010 and 11.6% in 2009.  

45  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative costs for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Labor and related benefits — In 2011, our labor and related benefits costs increased primarily due to (i) higher compensation costs due to an increase in headcount driven by our strategic growth plans, optimization initiatives, cost savings programs, and acquisition of Oakleaf; (ii) higher salaries and hourly wages due to merit increases; and (iii) higher non-cash compensation costs incurred for our performance share units and our stock option equity awards granted under our long-term incentive plan, or LTIP, offset partially by lower costs associated with our executive salary deferral plan, the costs of which are directly affected by equity-market conditions. The stock option equity awards that the Company granted in 2011 and 2010 provide that such options will continue to vest on the schedule provided in the award agreement following an employee’s retirement. Because retirement-eligible employees are not required to provide any future service to vest in these awards, we immediately recognized all of the compensation expense associated with stock option awards granted to retirement eligible employees. In 2011, the composition of our annual LTIP award grant was modified to use stock options to a greater extent and to reduce the number of performance share units awarded. Accordingly, costs increased in 2011 due to the significant increase in the number of stock option awards granted in 2011 over those granted in 2010 and an increase in the number of retirement-eligible employees receiving those awards.  

In 2010, our labor and related benefits costs increased primarily due to (i) higher salaries and hourly wages due to merit increases; (ii) higher compensation costs due to an increase in headcount driven by our strategic growth plans; (iii) additional bonus expense in 2010 because our performance against targets established by our annual incentive plans was stronger in 2010 compared with 2009; (iv) increased contract labor costs as a result of our current focus on optimizing our information technology systems; (v) increased severance costs; and (vi) higher non-cash compensation costs incurred for equity awards granted under our LTIP. During the second quarter of 2009, we reversed all compensation costs previously recognized for our 2008 performance share units based on a determination that it was no longer probable that the targets established for that award would be met. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2010 we immediately recognized all of the compensation expense associated with stock option awards granted to retirement-eligible employees. We did not incur similar charges in 2009 because this retirement provision was not included in any of the equity awards that were granted during 2009.  

Professional fees — During 2011, our professional fees increased due to consulting fees, primarily associated with the start-up phase of new cost savings programs, although these fees declined significantly during the second half of the year. We have begun to see the associated benefits of these programs and expect the benefits to increase throughout 2012. This increase was offset to a certain extent by lower legal fees in 2011 as compared with 2010. This reduction in legal fees in 2011 was primarily the result of the settlement in 2010 of a lawsuit related to the abandonment of revenue management software.  

In 2010, our professional fees increased due to consulting fees, driven primarily by improvements we are made to our information technology systems and investments we made to support our strategic growth plans. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in legal fees in 2010 as compared with 2009.  

Provision for bad debts — Our provision for bad debts was slightly higher in 2011 as compared with 2010, but both 2011 and 2010 were notably lower than 2009. Our provision was higher in 2009 as a result of the Company’s assessment of the weak economic environment in the beginning of 2009 and the resulting impacts on our collection risk. However, due in part to management’s continued focus on the collection of our receivables, our collection risk has moderated since 2009, thus resulting in a lower provision in both 2010 and 2011.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Other — During 2011 and 2010, we experienced increases in our computer costs, due in part to improvements we are making to our information technology systems, and litigation loss and settlement costs. Also driving the increase during 2010 was increased marketing and advertising costs, driven in part by our strategic growth plans.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded for capital leases, on a straight-line basis from three to 50 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction and asset retirement costs arising from closure and post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the total estimated remaining capacity of a site, which includes both permitted capacity and expansion capacity that meets our Company-specific criteria for amortization purposes; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units-of-consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event; and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, either using a 150% declining balance approach or a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are generally from two to ten years depending on the type of asset.  

The following table summarizes the components of our depreciation and amortization costs for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increases in amortization expense of intangible assets in 2011 and 2010 are due to our focus on the growth and development of our business through acquisitions and other investments. The increase in amortization of intangible assets in 2011 is primarily related to the amortization of customer lists, which were acquired (i) through our acquisition of Oakleaf, (ii) by our Southern Group and (iii) by our recycling and electronic brokerage services business. The increase in amortization of intangible assets in 2010 is primarily related to the amortization of definite-lived operating permits acquired by our healthcare solutions operations, customer lists acquired by our Southern and Midwest Groups and gas rights acquired by our renewable energy operations.  

Restructuring  

Beginning in July 2011, we took steps to streamline our organization as part of our cost savings programs. This reorganization eliminated over 700 employee positions throughout the Company, including approximately 300 open positions. Additionally, subsequent to our acquisition of Oakleaf, we incurred charges in connection with restructuring that organization. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized a total of $19 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $18 million were related to employee severance and benefit costs associated with this reorganization.  

In January 2009, we streamlined our organization by (i) consolidating our Market Areas from 45 Market Areas to 25 Market Areas; (ii) integrating the management of our recycling operations with our solid waste businesses in our four geographic Groups; and (iii) realigning our Corporate organization with this new structure in order to provide support functions more efficiently. This restructuring eliminated over 1,500 employee positions throughout the Company. During 2009, we recognized $50 million of pre-tax charges associated with this restructuring, of which $41 million were related to employee severance and benefit costs. The remaining charges were primarily related to lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized. In 2010, we recognized $2 million of income related to the reversal of pre-tax restructuring charges recorded in 2009.  

47  

Table of Contents 

(Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items  

The following table summarizes the major components of “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Asset Impairments — During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized impairment charges relating primarily to two facilities in our medical waste services business as a result of the closure of one site and of continuing operating losses at the other site. We wrote down the net book values of the sites to their estimated fair values.  

Through December 31, 2008, we capitalized $70 million of accumulated costs associated with the development of a new waste and recycling revenue management system. A significant portion of these costs was specifically associated with the purchase of a license for waste and recycling revenue management software and the efforts required to develop and configure that software for our use. After a failed pilot implementation of the software in one of our smallest Market Areas, the development efforts associated with the revenue management system were suspended in 2007. During 2009, we determined to enhance and improve our existing revenue management system and not pursue alternatives associated with the development and implementation of the licensed software. Accordingly, in 2009, we recognized a non-cash charge of $51 million for the abandonment of the licensed software.  

We recognized an additional $32 million of impairment charges during 2009, $27 million of which was recognized by our Western Group during the fourth quarter of 2009 to fully impair a landfill in California as a result of a change in our expectations for the future operations of the landfill. The remaining impairment charges were primarily attributable to a charge required to write down certain of our investments in portable self-storage operations to their fair value as a result of our acquisition of a controlling financial interest in those operations.  

Other — We filed a lawsuit in March 2008 related to the revenue management software implementation that was suspended in 2007 and abandoned in 2009. In April 2010, we settled the lawsuit and received a one-time cash payment. The settlement increased our “Income from operations” for the year ended December 31, 2010 by $77 million.  

Income from Operations by Reportable Segment  

The following table summarizes income from operations by reportable segment for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

48  

Table of Contents 

Reportable Segments — The most significant items affecting the results of operations of our four geographic Groups during the three-year period ended December 31, 2011 are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    revenue growth from yield on our base business;  

   Ÿ    market prices for recyclable commodities reflected significant year-over-year improvement in both 2011 and 2010;  

   Ÿ    the accretive benefits of recent acquisitions during 2011and 2010;  

   Ÿ    continued volume declines in 2010, and to a lesser extent in 2011, due to the economy, pricing, competition and increasing focus on waste reduction and diversion by consumers;  

   Ÿ    higher salaries and wages due to annual merit increases in both 2011 and 2010 for salaried and hourly employees. The increases during 2011 were offset, in large part, by the transfers of certain field sales organization employees to the Corporate sales organization;  

   Ÿ    higher maintenance and repair costs during 2011; and  

   Ÿ    restructuring charges during 2011 and 2009.  

Other significant items affecting the comparability of our Groups’ results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are summarized below:  

Eastern — During 2009, the Group recognized (i) an $18 million increase in revenues and income from operations associated with an oil and gas lease at one of our landfills; and (ii) a $9 million charge related to bargaining unit employees in New Jersey agreeing to our proposal to withdraw them from an underfunded multiemployer pension fund.  

Midwest — The income from operations of our Midwest Group in 2010 was significantly affected by the recognition of charges of $26 million as a result of employees of five bargaining units in Michigan and Ohio agreeing to our proposal to withdraw them from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan.  

Additionally, when comparing the average exchange rate in 2010 with 2009, the Canadian exchange rate strengthened by 10%, which increased the Group’s income from operations. The effects of foreign currency translation were the most significant to this Group because substantially all of our Canadian operations are managed by our Midwest Group.  

Southern — The decrease in income from operations of our Southern Group for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared with 2010 was driven largely by the volume decline previously discussed, which includes the unfavorable year-over-year impact of 2010 project volumes resulting from oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast. Additionally, the Group recognized a charge of $11 million in 2011 related to litigation reserves. This charge was initially recognized in “Other” during the fourth quarter of 2010.  

Western — The Group’s income from operations included additional “Selling, general and administrative” expense of $24 million recognized in 2011 as a result of a litigation loss and $12 million recognized in 2010 in connection with a litigation settlement. The Group’s 2009 income from operations included the recognition of an impairment charge of $27 million as a result of a change in expectations for the future operations of an inactive landfill in California.  

Further affecting the comparison of results was the recognition of $7 million of favorable adjustments to landfill amortization expense during 2010 associated with our obligations for landfill final capping, closure and post-closure and net expenses of $5 million recognized for adjustments related to these obligations during 2009. The unfavorable adjustments during 2009 primarily related to a closed landfill in Los Angeles, California for which the Group recognized additional amortization expense.  

Wheelabrator — The decrease in income from operations of our Wheelabrator Group for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared with 2010 was driven largely by (i) lower revenues due to the expiration of a long-term electric power capacity agreement that expired December 31, 2010 and the expiration of other long-term contracts at our waste-to-energy and independent power facilities; (ii) an increase in year-to-date costs at our facility in Portsmouth, Virginia that we acquired in April 2010 as we  

49  

Table of Contents 

 continue to refurbish the facility; and (iii) additional expenses recognized during 2011 for litigation reserves and associated compliance costs. A portion of the expenses for litigation reserves and associated costs were initially recognized in “Other” during the fourth quarter of 2010. The impact of these unfavorable items was partially offset by the efforts to control costs across each of our facilities.  

The decrease in the Group’s 2010 income from operations as compared with 2009 was driven by an increase in maintenance-related outages as compared with the prior year, which resulted in decreased electricity generation and increased plant maintenance costs. These increases were attributable to the acceleration of repair and maintenance expenses at our facility in Portsmouth, Virginia that we acquired in April 2010, and expenses at certain of our other facilities. The Group also experienced an increase in litigation settlement costs as compared with 2009. These unfavorable items were partially offset by the benefit of increased revenues from the sale of metals.  

Significant items affecting the comparability of the remaining components of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are summarized below:  

Other — Our “Other” income from operations include (i) the effects of those elements of our in-plant services, landfill gas-to-energy operations, and third-party subcontract and administration revenues managed by our Sustainability Services, Renewable Energy and Strategic Accounts organizations, including Oakleaf, respectively, that are not included with the operations of our reportable segments; (ii) our recycling brokerage and electronic recycling services; and (iii) the impacts of investments that we are making in expanded service offerings, such as portable self-storage and fluorescent lamp recycling, and in oil and gas producing properties. In addition, our “Other” income from operations reflects the impacts of (i) non-operating entities that provide financial assurance and self-insurance support for the Groups or financing for our Canadian operations; and (ii) certain year-end adjustments recorded in consolidation related to the reportable segments that were not included in the measure of segment profit or loss used to assess their performance for the periods disclosed.  

Significant items affecting the comparability of income from operations for the periods presented include (i) the reversal in 2011 of adjustments initially recorded in consolidation in the fourth quarter of 2010 related to our reportable segments, which are now included in the measure of segment income from operations in 2011 and (ii) losses from our growth initiatives. The adjustments recorded in consolidation were primarily related to $15 million of additional expense for litigation reserves and associated costs in our Southern and Wheelabrator Groups. The losses from our growth initiatives are expected to drive year-over-year improvements in future periods.  

Corporate and Other — Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include:  

   Ÿ    a benefit in 2010 of $77 million resulting from a litigation settlement that occurred in April 2010 and $51 million in charges recognized during 2009 for the abandonment of licensed software associated with the revenue management software implementation that was suspended in 2007 and abandoned in 2009;  

   Ÿ    increases in “Selling, general and administrative” expenses for the periods presented as a result of cost increases attributable to (i) consulting fees primarily associated with our new cost savings programs focusing on procurement, operational efficiency and back office efficiency and (ii) additional compensation expense due to annual salary and wage increases, headcount increases to support the Company’s strategic growth plans, and an increase in costs attributable to our equity compensation. Also affecting the comparison during the periods presented is increased compensation expense during 2011 due to transfers of certain field sales organization employees to the Corporate sales organization and a favorable litigation settlement that occurred in 2010;  

   Ÿ    the recognition of a $9 million favorable adjustment during 2011 and net charges of $50 million during 2010 for estimates associated with environmental remediation liabilities at certain of our closed sites;  

   Ÿ    changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets. As a result of changes in U.S. Treasury rates, we recognized $17 million of unfavorable adjustments during 2011 and $2 million of unfavorable adjustments during 2010, compared with $35 million of favorable adjustments during 2009;  

50  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    an increase in 2011 risk management costs, primarily due to increased costs associated with auto and general liability claims and the recognition of a favorable adjustment in 2010 associated with prior period claims; and  

   Ÿ    the recognition of $9 million in restructuring charges during 2009.  

Renewable Energy Operations  

We have extracted value from the waste streams we manage for years, and we are focusing on increasing our ability to do so, particularly in the field of clean and renewable energy. Most significantly, our current operations produce renewable energy through the waste-to-energy facilities that are managed by our Wheelabrator Group and our landfill gas-to-energy operations. We are actively seeking opportunities to enhance our existing renewable energy service offerings to ensure that we can respond to the shifting demands of consumers and to ensure that we are acting as a leader in environmental stewardship.  

We are disclosing the following supplemental information related to the operating results of our renewable energy operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in millions) because we believe that it provides information related to the significance of our current renewable energy operations, the profitability of these operations and the costs we are incurring to develop these operations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Our landfill gas-to-energy business focuses on generating a renewable energy source from the methane that is produced as waste decomposes. The operating results include the revenues and expenses of landfill gas-to-energy plants that we own and operate, as well as revenues generated from the sale of landfill gas to third-party owner/operators. The operating results of our landfill gas-to-energy business are included within our geographic reportable segments and “Other”.  

 (b) Includes businesses and entities we have acquired or invested in through our organic growth group’s business development efforts. These businesses include a landfill gas-to-LNG facility; landfill gas-to-diesel fuels technologies; organic waste streams-to-fuels technologies; and other engineered fuels technologies. The operating results of our Growth Opportunities are included within “Other” in our assessment of our income from operations by segment.  

Interest Expense  

Our interest expense was $481 million in 2011, $473 million in 2010 and $426 million in 2009. When comparing 2011 with 2010, our interest expense increased only slightly in spite of a more significant increase in our debt balances over the course of the year of about $850 million. This was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease in our weighted average borrowing rate that has been achieved by refinancing debt with scheduled maturities in 2011 with debt at much lower fixed interest rates; (ii) the impacts that lower market interest rates had on the cost of certain of our tax-exempt debt; and (iii) a $5 million increase in capitalized interest due primarily to higher capital spending in 2011. In 2011, these decreases in interest expense were partially offset by a decrease in the benefits provided by active and terminated interest rate swap agreements due to the maturity of the underlying senior notes.  

51  

Table of Contents 

When comparing 2010 with 2009, the significant increase in our interest expense was primarily due to (i) the issuance of an additional $600 million of senior notes in November 2009 to support acquisitions and investments made throughout 2010, (ii) significantly higher costs related to our revolving credit facility, and (iii) decreased benefits to interest expense provided by active interest rate swaps as a result of decreases in the notional amount of swaps outstanding. These increases in interest expense were offset, in part, by a decline in market interest rates, which reduced the interest costs of our tax-exempt borrowings and our Canadian credit facility.  

Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities  

Beginning in April 2010, our “Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities” has been primarily related to our noncontrolling interest in a limited liability company established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties, as well as (i) noncontrolling investments made to support our strategic initiatives and (ii) unconsolidated trusts for final capping, closure, post-closure or environmental obligations. In January 2011, we acquired a noncontrolling interest in a limited liability company established to invest in and manage a refined coal facility. The tax impacts realized as a result of our investments in low-income housing properties and the refined coal facility are discussed below in Provision for Income Taxes. Refer to Notes 9 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these investments.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

We recorded provisions for income taxes of $511 million in 2011, $629 million in 2010 and $413 million in 2009. These tax provisions resulted in an effective income tax rate of approximately 33.6%, 38.5% and 28.1%, for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is primarily affected by (i) variations in our income before income taxes; (ii) the utilization of a capital loss carry-back; (iii) the realization of state net operating loss and credit carry-forwards; (iv) changes in effective state and Canadian statutory tax rates; (v) tax audit settlements; and (vi) the impact of federal low-income housing and refined coal tax credits. The impacts of these items are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Capital Loss Carry-back — During 2009, we generated a capital loss from the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary. We determined that the capital loss could be utilized to offset capital gains from 2006 and 2007, which resulted in a reduction to our 2009 “Provision for income taxes” of $65 million.  

   Ÿ    State Net Operating Loss and Credit Carry-forwards — During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we utilized state net operating loss and credit carry-forwards resulting in a reduction to our “Provision for income taxes” for those periods of $4 million, $4 million, and $35 million, respectively.  

   Ÿ    Canadian and State Tax Rate Changes — During 2011, our state deferred income taxes increased by $3 million to reflect the impact of changes in the estimated tax rate at which existing temporary differences will be realized. During 2010, our current state tax rate increased from 6.25% to 6.75% resulting in an increase to our provision for income taxes of $5 million. In addition, our state deferred income taxes increased $37 million to reflect the impact of changes in the estimated tax rate at which existing temporary differences will be realized. During 2009, our current state tax rate increased from 6.0% to 6.25% and our deferred state tax rate increased from 5.5% to 5.75%, resulting in an increase to our income taxes of $3 million and $6 million, respectively. Also affecting 2009 was the reduction of provincial tax rates in Ontario, which resulted in a $13 million tax benefit as a result of the revaluation of the related deferred tax balances.  

   Ÿ    Tax Audit Settlements — The settlement of various tax audits resulted in reductions in income tax expense of $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

   Ÿ    Federal Low-income Housing Tax Credits — Our federal low-income housing investment and the resulting credits reduced our provision for income taxes by $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our federal low-income housing investment.  

52  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    Refined Coal Investment Tax Credits — Our refined coal facility investment and the resulting credits reduced our provision for income taxes by $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our refined coal investment.  

Our acquisition of Oakleaf did not materially impact our provision for income taxes or the effective income tax rate for the period ended December 31, 2011. We did receive, as part of the acquisition, income tax attributes (primarily federal and state net operating losses). While these tax attributes, when realized, will not affect our overall provision for income taxes, they will have a favorable impact on our cash taxes, although we do not anticipate the impact to be material to our overall cash flow from operations.  

We expect our 2012 recurring effective tax rate will be approximately 35.5% based on expected income levels, projected federal tax credits and other permanent items.  

The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act, signed into law on December 17, 2010, included an extension of the bonus depreciation allowance through the end of 2012 and increased the amount of qualifying capital expenditures that can be depreciated immediately from 50% to 100%. The 100% depreciation deduction applies to qualifying property placed in service from September 8, 2010 through December 31, 2011. The acceleration of deductions on 2011 capital expenditures resulting from the bonus depreciation provision had no impact on our 2011 effective tax rate. However, the ability to accelerate depreciation deductions decreased our 2011 cash taxes by approximately $190 million. Taking the accelerated tax depreciation will result in increased cash taxes in future periods when the deductions for these capital expenditures would have otherwise been taken.  

Noncontrolling Interests  

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $48 million in 2011, $49 million in 2010 and $66 million in 2009. These amounts are principally related to third parties’ equity interests in two limited liability companies that own three waste-to-energy facilities operated by our Wheelabrator Group. The comparison of these amounts for the reported periods has been affected by (i) our January 2010 acquisition of a controlling financial interest in a portable self-storage business and (ii) the deconsolidation of certain final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation trusts as a result of our implementation of authoritative accounting guidance, effective January 1, 2010, associated with variable interest entities. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the consolidation of these variable interest entities.  

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Discussion and Analysis  

We owned or operated 266 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2011 and 2010. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the expected remaining capacity, in cubic yards and tonnage of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills, is shown below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2011 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 42 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are seeking expansion permits at 33 of our landfills that meet the expansion criteria outlined in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions section above. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 48 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume.  

53  

Table of Contents 

The number of landfills we own or operate as of December 31, 2011, segregated by their estimated operating lives (in years), based on remaining permitted and expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume, was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) From an operating perspective, landfills we operate through lease agreements are similar to landfills we own because we own the landfill’s operating permit and will operate the landfill for the entire lease term, which in many cases is the life of the landfill. We are usually responsible for the final capping, closure and post-closure obligations of the landfills we lease.  

 (b) For operating contracts, the property owner owns the permit and we operate the landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the landfill. However, we are generally responsible for final capping, closure and post-closure obligations under the operating contracts.  

The following table reflects landfill capacity and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts reflected here relate to the combined impacts of (i) new expansions pursued; (ii) increases or decreases in the airspace being pursued for ongoing expansion efforts; (iii) adjustments for differences between the airspace being pursued and airspace granted and (iv) decreases due to decisions to no longer pursue expansion permits.  

 (b) We received expansion permits at eight of our landfills during 2011 and 13 of our landfills during 2010, demonstrating our continued success in working with municipalities and regulatory agencies to expand the disposal capacity of our existing landfills.  

 (c)  Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site-specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate; and operating practices. We continually focus on  

54  

Table of Contents 

    improving the utilization of airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials; and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training.  

The tons received at our landfills in 2011 and 2010 are shown below (tons in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In 2011, we developed one landfill and closed one landfill.  

 (b) These amounts include 1.4 million tons at December 31, 2011 and 1.7 million tons at December 31, 2010 that were received at our landfills but were used for beneficial purposes and generally were redirected from the permitted airspace to other areas of the landfill. Waste types that are frequently identified for beneficial use include green waste for composting and clean dirt for on-site construction projects.  

When a landfill we own or operate receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, we generally transfer the management of the site, including any remediation activities, to our closed sites management group. As of December 31, 2011, our closed sites management group managed 207 closed landfills.  

Landfill Assets — We capitalize various costs that we incur to prepare a landfill to accept waste. These costs generally include expenditures for land (including the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property), permitting, excavation, liner material and installation, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. The cost basis of our landfill assets also includes estimates of future costs associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities, which are discussed further below.  

The following table reflects the total cost basis of our landfill assets and accumulated landfill airspace amortization as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2011 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

55  

Table of Contents 

As of December 31, 2011, we estimate that we will spend approximately $400 million in 2012, and approximately $1 billion in 2013 and 2014 combined for the construction and development of our landfill assets. The specific timing of landfill capital spending is dependent on future events, and spending estimates are subject to change due to fluctuations in landfill waste volumes, changes in environmental requirements and other factors impacting landfill operations.  

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Liabilities — As we accept waste at our landfills, we incur significant asset retirement obligations, which include liabilities associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities. These liabilities are accounted for in accordance with authoritative guidance associated with accounting for asset retirement obligations, and are discussed in Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have liabilities for the remediation of properties that have incurred environmental damage, which generally was caused by operations or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired operations or a site. We recognize environmental remediation liabilities when we determine that the liability is probable and the estimated cost for the likely remedy can be reasonably estimated.  

The following table reflects our landfill liabilities and our environmental remediation liabilities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2011 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Landfill Costs and Expenses — As disclosed in the Operating Expenses section above, our landfill operating costs include interest accretion on asset retirement obligations, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs, and other landfill site costs. The following table summarizes these costs for each of the three years indicated (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The comparison of these costs for the reported periods has been significantly affected by accounting for changes in the risk-free discount rate that we use to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation liabilities and environmental remediation recovery assets, which is based on the rate for U.S. Treasury bonds with a term approximating the weighted-average period until settlement of the underlying obligations. Additionally, in 2010, we increased our cost estimates associated with environmental remediation obligations primarily based on a review and evaluation of existing remediation projects. As these remediation projects progressed, more defined plans were developed, resulting in a net increase in remediation expense to reflect the more likely remedies. In 2011, we had a favorable revision to an environmental remediation liability at a closed site based on the estimated cost of the remediation alternative selected by the EPA.  

56  

Table of Contents 

Amortization of landfill airspace, which is included as a component of “Depreciation and amortization” expense, includes the following:  

   Ÿ    the amortization of landfill capital costs, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) estimated future costs for landfill development and construction required to develop our landfills to their remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and  

   Ÿ    the amortization of asset retirement costs arising from final landfill capping, closure and post-closure obligations, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) projected asset retirement costs.  

Amortization expense is recorded on a units-of-consumption basis, applying cost as a rate per ton. The rate per ton is calculated by dividing each component of the amortizable basis of a landfill by the number of tons needed to fill the corresponding asset’s airspace. Landfill capital costs and closure and post-closure asset retirement costs are generally incurred to support the operation of the landfill over its entire operating life, and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using a landfill’s total airspace capacity. Final capping asset retirement costs are related to a specific final capping event and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using each discrete final capping event’s estimated airspace capacity. Accordingly, each landfill has multiple per-ton amortization rates.  

The following table presents our landfill airspace amortization expense on a per-ton basis:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Different per-ton amortization rates are applied at each of our 271 landfills, and per-ton amortization rates vary significantly from one landfill to another due to (i) inconsistencies that often exist in construction costs and provincial, state and local regulatory requirements for landfill development and landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities; and (ii) differences in the cost basis of landfills that we develop versus those that we acquire. Accordingly, our landfill airspace amortization expense measured on a per-ton basis can fluctuate due to changes in the mix of volumes we receive across the Company year-over-year. The comparability of our total Company average landfill airspace amortization expense per ton for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 has also been affected by the recognition of reductions to amortization expense for changes in our estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. Landfill amortization expense was reduced by $11 million in 2011, $13 million in 2010 and $14 million in 2009, for the effects of these changes in estimates. In each year, the majority of the reduced expense resulted from revisions in the estimated timing or cost of final capping events that were generally the result of (i) concerted efforts to improve the operating efficiencies of our landfills and volume declines, both of which have allowed us to delay spending for final capping activities; (ii) effectively managing the cost of final capping material and construction; or (iii) landfill expansions that resulted in reduced or deferred final capping costs.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet and landfill equipment; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at waste-to-energy and materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) final capping, closure and post-closure activities at our landfills; (vi) the repayment of debt and discharging of other obligations; and (vii) capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments in support of our strategic growth plans. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through our capital allocation program that provides for dividend payments and share repurchases.  

57  

Table of Contents 

Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations  

The following is a summary of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cash and cash equivalents — Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit and money market funds that invest in U.S. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. Our cash and cash equivalents have decreased as a result of the execution of our strategic growth plans, which has increased our level of capital spending, acquisitions and investments.  

Restricted trust and escrow accounts — Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist primarily of (i) funds deposited for purposes of settling landfill final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations; and (ii) funds received from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds held in trust for the construction of various projects or facilities. These balances are primarily included within long-term “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Debt — We use long-term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax-exempt bonds to borrow on a long-term basis, but also use other instruments and facilities when appropriate. The components of our long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2011 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 were primarily due to (i) net debt borrowings of $698 million; (ii) $100 million in non-cash proceeds from tax-exempt borrowings; and (ii) the impacts of accounting for other non-cash changes in our debt balances due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps, foreign currency translation, interest accretion and capital leases.  

As of December 31, 2011, we had (i) $925 million of debt maturing within twelve months, including $150 million of borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility, U.S.$137 million of advances outstanding under our Canadian credit facility, $400 million of 6.375% senior notes that mature in November 2012 and $168 million of tax-exempt bonds and (ii) $305 million of fixed-rate tax-exempt borrowings subject to re-pricing within the next twelve months. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, this debt must be classified as current unless we have the intent and ability to refinance it on a long-term basis. We have the intent and ability to refinance $599 million of this debt on a long-term basis and have classified the remaining $631 million as current obligations as of December 31, 2011. In January 2012, we borrowed an additional $50 million under our revolving credit facility, increasing the total loans outstanding under our revolving credit facility to $200 million.  

58  

Table of Contents 

We have credit facilities in place to support our liquidity and financial assurance needs. The following table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit (in millions) at December 31, categorized by type of facility:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In May 2011, we amended and restated our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility as a result of changes in market conditions, which significantly reduced the cost of the facility. We also extended the term through May 2016. At December 31, 2011, we had $150 million of outstanding borrowings and $1,012 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $838 million.  

 (b) As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate committed capacity of $505 million under letter of credit facilities with terms that extend from June 2013 to June 2015. As of December 31, 2011, no borrowings were outstanding under these letter of credit facilities and we had $3 million of unused or available credit capacity.  

 (c) These letters of credit are outstanding under various arrangements that do not obligate the counterparty to provide a committed capacity.  

Summary of Cash Flow Activity  

The following is a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows in 2011 as compared with 2010 are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Decreased income tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits, was approximately $242 million lower in 2011 due in large part to the extension of the bonus depreciation legislation. The ability to accelerate depreciation deductions decreased our full year 2011 cash taxes by approximately $175 million. Also contributing to the decrease in cash paid for taxes in 2011, is an increase in federal tax credits provided by our investments in two unconsolidated entities. These investments are discussed in Note 9 and Note 20 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

   Ÿ    2010 Non-recurring cash inflows — Two significant cash transactions benefited cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010. In the second quarter of 2010, we received $77 million for a litigation settlement, and in the third quarter of 2010, we received a $65 million federal tax refund related to the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary in 2009.  

   Ÿ    Settlement of Canadian hedge — In December 2010, our previously existing foreign currency hedges matured and we paid cash of $37 million upon settlement. The cash payment from the settlement was classified as a change in accrued liabilities within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   Ÿ    Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was favorably impacted in 2011 by changes in our working capital accounts. Although our working capital changes may vary from year to year, they are typically driven by changes in  

59  

Table of Contents 

     accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable changes, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments.  

The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows for 2010 and 2009 are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Increase in earnings — Our income from operations increased by $229 million on a year-over-year basis, driven, in part, by a favorable cash benefit of $77 million resulting from a litigation settlement in April 2010. This earnings increase was also impacted by (i) the recognition of a $51 million non-cash charge associated with the abandonment of licensed revenue management software and (ii) the recognition of a $27 million non-cash charge in 2009 as a result of a change in expectations for the future operations of an inactive landfill in California.  

The comparison of our 2010 and 2009 income from operations was also affected by a $91 million increase in non-cash charges attributable to (i) equity-based compensation expense; (ii) interest accretion on landfill liabilities; (iii) interest accretion and discount rate adjustments on environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets; (iv) depreciation and amortization; and (v) the impact of the withdrawal of certain bargaining units from multiemployer pension plans. While these increases in non-cash charges unfavorably affected our earnings comparison, there was no impact on net cash provided by operating activities.  

   Ÿ    Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was negatively impacted in 2010 and favorably impacted in 2009, by changes in our working capital accounts. Although our working capital changes may vary from year to year, they are typically driven by changes in accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable changes, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments. Additionally, the following are other significant items that affected our cash flow from operations:  

   Ÿ    Increased income tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, was approximately $86 million higher on a year-over-year basis. The comparability of our effective tax rates is discussed in the Provision for income taxes section above.  

   Ÿ    Increased interest payments — Cash paid for interest was approximately $61 million higher on a year-over-year basis. This increase was primarily due to (i) the issuance of an additional $600 million of senior notes in November 2009 to support acquisitions and investments made throughout 2010; (ii) significantly higher costs related to the execution and maintenance of our revolving credit facility, which was refinanced in June 2010; and (iii) a decrease in benefits to interest expense provided by active interest rate swaps as a result of decreases in the notional amount of swaps outstanding.  

   Ÿ    Settlement of Canadian hedge — In December 2010, our previously existing foreign currency hedges matured and we paid cash of $37 million upon settlement. The cash payment from the settlement was classified as a change in accrued liabilities within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   Ÿ    Liquidation of a foreign subsidiary — We received a $65 million federal tax refund in the third quarter of 2010 related to the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary in 2009. The cash proceeds were classified as a change in other current assets within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Capital expenditures — We used $1,324 million during 2011 for capital expenditures, compared with $1,104 million in 2010 and $1,179 million in 2009. The increase in capital expenditures in 2011 is a result of our increased spending on natural gas vehicles and fueling infrastructure, information technology infrastructure and growth initiatives, as well as our taking advantage of the bonus depreciation legislation. The year-over-year comparison of 2011 with 2010 was also affected by timing differences associated  

60  

Table of Contents 

     with cash payments for the previous years’ fourth quarter capital spending. Approximately $206 million of our fourth quarter 2010 spending was paid in cash in the first quarter of 2011 compared with approximately $145 million of our fourth quarter 2009 spending that was paid in the first quarter of 2010.  

   Ÿ    Acquisitions — Our spending on acquisitions increased from $281 million during 2009 to $407 million in 2010 and to $867 million in 2011. During the third quarter of 2011, we paid $432 million, net of cash received of $4 million and inclusive of certain adjustments, to acquire Oakleaf, which provides outsourced waste and recycling services through a nationwide network of third-party haulers. During the second quarter of 2010, we paid approximately $150 million to acquire a waste-to-energy facility in Portsmouth, Virginia. We continue to focus on accretive acquisitions and growth opportunities that will contribute to improved future results of operations and enhance and expand our existing service offerings.  

   Ÿ    Investments in unconsolidated entities — We made $155 million of cash investments in unconsolidated entities during 2011. These investments included a $48 million payment made to acquire a noncontrolling interest in a limited liability company, which was established to invest in and manage a refined coal facility in North Dakota, and $107 million of investments primarily related to furthering our goal of growing into new markets by investing in greener technologies.  

We made $173 million of cash investments in unconsolidated entities during 2010. These cash investments were primarily related to a $142 million payment made to acquire a 40% equity investment in Shanghai Environment Group, a subsidiary of Shanghai Chengtou Holding Co., Ltd. As a joint venture partner in SEG, we participate in the operation and management of waste-to-energy and other waste services in the Chinese market. SEG’s focus also includes building new waste-to-energy facilities in China.  

   Ÿ    Net receipts from restricted funds — Net cash received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts, which are largely generated from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds for our capital needs, contributed $107 million to our investing activities in 2011 compared with $48 million in 2010 and $196 million in 2009. The significant decrease in cash received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts during 2010 was due to a decrease in tax-exempt borrowings.  

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Share repurchases and dividend payments — Our 2011, 2010 and 2009 share repurchases and dividend payments have been made in accordance with capital allocation programs approved by our Board of Directors.  

We paid $575 million for share repurchases in 2011, compared with $501 million in 2010 and $226 million in 2009. We repurchased approximately 17 million, 15 million and 7 million shares of our common stock in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We did not repurchase shares during the first half of 2009 given the state of the economy and the financial markets. In the second half of 2009, we resumed repurchases of our common stock following improvements in the economy and capital markets.  

We paid an aggregate of $637 million in cash dividends during 2011, compared with $604 million in 2010 and $569 million in 2009. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.29 in 2009, to $0.315 in 2010 and to $0.34 in 2011, and has been offset in part by a reduction in our common stock outstanding as a result of our share repurchase programs.  

In December 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors expects to increase the per share quarterly dividend from $0.34 to $0.355 for dividends declared in 2012. However, all future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors, and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future business plans and other factors the Board of Directors may deem relevant. In December 2011, the Board of Directors approved up to $500 million in share repurchases for 2012. However, future share repurchases will be made at the discretion of management, and will depend on factors similar to those considered by the Board of Directors in making dividend declarations.  

61  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    Proceeds from the exercise of common stock options — The exercise of common stock options and the related excess tax benefits generated a total of $45 million of financing cash inflows during 2011 compared with $54 million during 2010 and $20 million during 2009.  

   Ÿ    Net debt repayments — Net debt borrowings were $698 million in 2011, net debt repayments were $204 million in 2010 and net debt borrowings were $414 million in 2009. The following summarizes our most significant cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Due to the short-term maturities of the borrowings under the revolving credit facility, we have reported these cash flows on a net basis in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.  

This summary excludes the impacts of non-cash borrowings and debt repayments. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, these non-cash financing activities were primarily associated with our tax-exempt bond financings. Proceeds from tax-exempt bond issuances, net of principal repayments made directly from trust funds, were $100 million and $105 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we did not have any tax-exempt bond financings; however, we did have a $215 million non-cash increase in our debt obligations as a result of the issuance of a note payable in return for a noncontrolling interest in a limited liability company established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties. This investment is discussed in detail in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

   Ÿ    Other — Net cash used in other financing activities was $46 million in 2011 and $50 million in 2009 while net cash provided from other financing activities was $18 million in 2010. These activities are primarily attributable to changes in our accrued liabilities for checks written in excess of cash balances due to the timing of cash deposits or payments. During 2011, the cash used for these activities included $7 million of financing costs paid in May to amend and restate our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility. The cash provided by changes in our accrued liabilities for checks written in excess of cash balances in 2010 was offset, in part, by $13 million of financing costs paid in June to initially execute our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Summary of Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities for final capping, closure and post-closure will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills.  

 (b) The amounts reported here represent the scheduled principal payments related to our long-term debt, excluding related interest. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding interest rates.  

 (c) Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2011 include $305 million of tax-exempt bonds subject to re-pricing within the next twelve months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re-offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowing for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 (d) Our recorded debt obligations include non-cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods.  

 (e) Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

 (f) Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For contracts that require us to purchase minimum quantities of goods or services, we have estimated our future minimum obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. Accordingly, the amounts reported in the table are not necessarily indicative of our actual cash flow obligations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations.  

63  

Table of Contents 

Liquidity Impacts of Uncertain Tax Positions  

As discussed in Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of long-term “Other liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next twelve months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2011 nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

Inflation  

While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of diesel fuel, have affected our operating margins in recent years, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, as of December 31, 2011, over 17% of our collection revenues are generated under long-term agreements with price adjustments based on various indices intended to measure inflation. Additionally, management’s estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities.  

New Accounting Pronouncements  

Fair Value Measurements — In May 2011, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with fair value measurements. This amended guidance defines certain requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with fair value measurements were effective for the Company on January 1, 2012 and are to be applied prospectively. We do not expect that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.