ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could materially affect BB&T’s financial condition and operations. Other factors that could affect the Corporation’s financial condition and operations are discussed in the “Forward-looking statements” section above. However, there may be additional risks that are not presently material or known, and factors besides those discussed below, or elsewhere in this or other reports that BB&T filed or furnished with the SEC, that also could adversely affect the Corporation.  

Changes in national, regional and local economic conditions and deterioration in the geographic and financial markets in which BB&T operates could lead to higher loan charge-offs and reduce BB&T’s net income and growth.  

BB&T’s business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national, regional and local economic conditions. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on BB&T’s operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. BB&T’s banking operations are locally oriented and community-based. Accordingly, BB&T expects to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets it serves. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities BB&T serves. Weakness in BB&T’s market area could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because:  

   •    customers may not want or need BB&T’s products or services;  

   •    borrowers may not be able or willing to repay their loans;  

   •    the value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may decline; and  

   •    the quality of BB&T’s loan portfolio may decline.  

Any of the latter three scenarios could require BB&T to charge off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase provisions for credit losses, which would reduce BB&T’s net income. For example, while the credit deterioration that BB&T experienced beginning in 2007 and continuing through much of 2010 improved considerably during 2011, the challenges in the residential real estate markets still present credit deterioration risks for BB&T in light of the slow pace of general economic recovery. Any further credit deterioration, combined with flat to declining real estate values, would result in increased loan charge-offs and higher provisions for credit losses, which may negatively impact BB&T’s net income.  

In addition, significant declines in the housing market from 2007 through 2010, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. BB&T is part of the financial system and a systemic lack of available credit, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, continued volatility in the financial markets and/or reduced business activity could materially adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Downgrades of U.S. government securities by one or more of the credit ratings agencies could have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s operations, earnings and financial condition.  

The ongoing debate in Congress regarding federal budget deficit concerns, the national debt ceiling and overall weakness in the economy resulted in the downgrade of U.S. government securities by Standard & Poor’s, one of the three major credit rating agencies, in August 2011. The possible future downgrade of the federal government’s credit rating by one or both of the other two major ratings agencies could create uncertainty in the U.S. and global financial markets and cause other events which, directly or indirectly, may adversely affect BB&T’s operations, earnings and financial condition. For example, BB&T securities portfolio consists largely of mortgage backed securities issued by government sponsored entities, such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Among other things, a downgrade in the U.S. government’s credit rating could adversely impact the value of these securities and may trigger requirements that the Corporation post additional collateral for trades relative to these securities.  

19  

Table of Contents 

Weakness in the markets for residential or commercial real estate, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, could reduce BB&T’s net income and profitability.  

Since 2007, softening residential housing markets, increasing delinquency and default rates, and increasingly volatile and constrained secondary credit markets have been negatively impacting the mortgage industry. BB&T’s financial results have been adversely affected by changes in real estate values, primarily in Georgia, Florida and metro Washington, D.C., with some deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas. Decreases in real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for loans and investments in BB&T’s portfolio. For example, the poor economic conditions experienced in 2007 through 2010, coupled with slow economic growth and ongoing concerns regarding economic recovery, have resulted in decreased demand for real estate loans, and BB&T’s net income and profits have suffered as a result.  

The declines in home prices in many markets across the U.S., including a number of markets in BB&T’s banking footprint (primarily in Georgia, Florida, and metro Washington, D.C., with some deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas), along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, also has resulted in increases in delinquencies and losses in BB&T’s portfolio of loans related to residential real estate, including its acquisition, development and construction loan portfolio. Further declines in home prices within BB&T’s banking footprint (including markets that to date have not experienced significant declines) coupled with the continued impact of the economic recession and high unemployment levels could drive losses beyond the levels provided for in BB&T’s allowance for loan losses. In that event, BB&T’s future earnings would be adversely affected.  

Significant ongoing disruption in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans has limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales has resulted in price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held and mortgage loan originations. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes within BB&T’s banking footprint, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect BB&T’s financial condition and results of operations.  

The Colonial loan portfolios are largely covered by shared-loss agreements, however, BB&T is not immune from losses or risks relative to these portfolios.  

On August 14, 2009, Branch Bank entered into an agreement with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to acquire certain assets and assume substantially all of the deposits and certain liabilities of Colonial Bank, an Alabama state-chartered bank headquartered in Montgomery, Alabama (“Colonial”). As a result, Branch Bank acquired a significant portfolio of loans from Colonial. Although Branch Bank marked down the acquired loan portfolio to estimated fair value, the acquired loans could suffer further deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs to this loan portfolio. Fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential real estate, commercial real estate and construction markets may increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolio that was acquired in the acquisition of Colonial and correspondingly reduce BB&T’s net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on BB&T’s operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Although Branch Bank entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which provide that a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that were acquired in connection with the acquisition of Colonial will be borne by the FDIC, Branch Bank is not protected from all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that Branch Bank experiences after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact BB&T’s net income.  

The Colonial acquisition has increased Branch Bank’s commercial real estate and construction loan portfolio, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans.  

With the acquisition of the Colonial loan portfolio, the commercial real estate loan and construction loan portfolios have become a larger portion of Branch Bank’s total loan portfolio than it was prior to the Colonial acquisition. This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending, because the principal repayment may be dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate or construction project. Consequently, commercial real estate and construction loans are more sensitive to the current adverse conditions  

20  

Table of Contents 

 in the real estate market and the general economy. These types of loans are generally less predictable, more difficult to evaluate and monitor, and collateral may be more difficult to dispose of in a soft market. However, with respect to the loans acquired in the Colonial transaction, the negative economic aspects of these risks are mitigated as a result of the FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

BB&T’s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets, an unforeseen outflow of cash or a reduction in the credit ratings for BB&T or its subsidiaries.  

Liquidity is essential to BB&T’s businesses. The capital and credit markets continue to demonstrate volatility and disruption, despite modest improvements in the general economy during 2011, producing, in some cases downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If these levels of market disruption and volatility continue, worsen or abate and then arise at a later date, BB&T’s ability to access capital could be materially impaired. Additionally, other factors outside of BB&T’s control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or BB&T could impair BB&T’s ability to access the capital markets or create an unforeseen outflow of cash or deposits. BB&T’s inability to access the capital markets could constrain its ability to make new loans, to meet its existing lending commitments and, ultimately jeopardize its overall liquidity and capitalization.  

BB&T’s credit ratings are also important to its liquidity. These rating agencies regularly evaluate BB&T and its subsidiaries, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including the financial strength of BB&T and its subsidiaries, as well as factors not entirely within BB&T’s control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the ongoing difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, as well as the soft economic recovery in general, there can be no assurance that BB&T will maintain its current ratings. A reduction in BB&T’s credit ratings could adversely affect BB&T’s liquidity and competitive position, increase its borrowing costs, limit its access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations.  

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect BB&T.  

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. BB&T has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose BB&T to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, BB&T’s credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due BB&T. These types of losses could materially and adversely affect BB&T’s results of operations or financial condition.  

Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on BB&T’s profitability.  

BB&T’s earnings and financial condition are largely dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, meaning the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect BB&T’s earnings and financial condition. BB&T cannot control or predict with certainty changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions, competitive pressures and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, affect interest income and interest expense. As discussed in “Market Risk Management – Interest Rate Market Risk (Other than Trading),” BB&T has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on BB&T’s profitability. For example, high interest rates could adversely affect BB&T’s mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgage refinancings or purchase mortgages. While BB&T actively manages against these risks, if BB&T’s assumptions regarding borrower behavior are wrong or overall economic conditions are significantly worse than planned for, then the Corporation’s risk mitigation techniques may be insufficient to protect against the risk.  

Changes in banking laws could have a material adverse effect on BB&T.  

BB&T is extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. In addition, BB&T is subject to changes in federal and state laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, and governmental economic and  

21  

Table of Contents 

 monetary policies. BB&T cannot predict whether any of these changes may adversely and materially affect BB&T. The current regulatory environment for financial institutions entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and associated costs, including those related to consumer credit, with a focus on mortgage lending. For example, the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010 represented a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, and the implementation of and rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act during 2011 and in the future could result in higher compliance costs and otherwise materially adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Regulatory Considerations” and the immediately following risk factor for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act and its potential impact upon BB&T and its subsidiaries.  

Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on BB&T’s activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability.  

The ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, and its related rulemaking activities, may result in lower revenues, higher costs and ratings downgrades.  

The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law in July 2010, represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, and changes among the bank regulatory agencies. During 2011, federal agencies continued implementation of and rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act. Many of these provisions remain subject to further study, rulemaking, and the discretion of regulatory bodies, such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which will regulate the systemic risk of the financial system. Due to BB&T’s size, the Company will be designated as “systemically significant” to the financial health of the U.S. economy and, as a result, will be subject to additional regulations such as the “living will” requirements relating to the rapid and orderly resolution of systemically significant financial institutions in the event of material financial distress or failure. BB&T cannot predict the additional effects that compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act or any implementing regulations will have on BB&T’s businesses or its ability to pursue future business opportunities. Additional regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Regulatory Considerations” for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act and its impact upon BB&T and its subsidiaries.  

The provisions of the Dodd Frank Act restricting bank interchange fees, and the rules promulgated thereunder, may further negatively impact BB&T’s revenues and earnings.  

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve adopted rules effective October 1, 2011, limiting the interchange fees that may be charged with respect to electronic debit transactions. Interchange fees, or “swipe” fees, are charges that merchants pay to BB&T and other credit card companies and card-issuing banks for processing electronic payment transactions. Since taking effect, these limitations have reduced BB&T’s debit card interchange revenues and have created meaningful compliance costs. Additional limits may further reduce BB&T’s debit card interchange revenues and create additional compliance costs. See “Regulatory Considerations—Consumer Protection Laws” for additional information regarding the limits on interchange fees imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act.  

Recently enacted consumer protection regulations related to automated overdraft payment programs could adversely affect BB&T’s business operations, net income and profitability.  

The Federal Reserve and FDIC recently enacted consumer protection regulations related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions, which are described under the heading “Regulatory Considerations—Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation.” BB&T has implemented changes to its business practices relating to overdraft payment programs in order to comply with these regulations.  

For the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Branch Bank’s overdraft and insufficient funds fees represented a significant amount of non-interest fees collected by Branch Bank. Since taking effect on July 1, 2011, the fees received by Branch Bank for automated overdraft payment services have decreased, thereby adversely impacting BB&T’s non-interest income. Complying with these regulations has resulted in increased operational costs for BB&T and Branch Bank, which may continue to rise. In addition, BB&T may be placed at a competitive disadvantage to the extent  

22  

Table of Contents 

 that its competitors are not subject to the FDIC’s automated overdraft payment program regulations. The actual impact of these regulations in future periods could vary due to a variety of factors, including changes in customer behavior, economic conditions and other factors, which could adversely affect BB&T’s business operations, net income and profitability.  

BB&T may be subject to more stringent capital requirements, which could diminish its ability to pay dividends or require BB&T to reduce its operations.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal banking agencies to establish more stringent risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits applicable to banks and bank holding companies. Under the legislation, federal banking agencies are required to develop capital requirements that address systemically risky activities. The effect of these capital rules will disallow trust preferred securities from counting as Tier 1 capital at the holding company level for entities with greater than $15 billion in assets, with a three-year phase-in period beginning on January 1, 2013. These requirements, and any other new regulations, including those that may be imposed as a result of the requirements established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, could adversely affect BB&T’s ability to pay dividends, or could require BB&T to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including ways that may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the costs associated with complying with the more stringent capital requirements, such as the requirement to formulate and submit capital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios on an annual basis, could have a material adverse effect on BB&T.  

BB&T may experience significant competition in its market area, which may reduce its customer base or cause it to lower prices for its products and services in order to maintain market share.  

There is intense competition among commercial banks in BB&T’s market area. In addition, BB&T competes with other providers of financial services, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full-service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than BB&T is with respect to the products and services they provide. BB&T’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce BB&T’s net interest margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services.  

In addition, the adoption of new technologies by competitors, including internet banking services, mobile phone applications and advanced ATM functionality could require BB&T to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in BB&T’s business may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. BB&T may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of its products and services, anticipating or reacting to consumers’ changing technological preferences or developing and maintaining loyal customers.  

Some of BB&T’s larger competitors, including certain national banks that have a significant presence in BB&T’s market area, may have greater capital and resources than BB&T, may have higher lending limits and may offer products and services not offered by BB&T. Although BB&T remains strong, stable and well capitalized, management cannot predict the reaction of customers and other third parties with which BB&T conducts business with respect to the strength of BB&T relative to its competitors, including its larger competitors. Any potential adverse reactions to BB&T’s financial condition or status in the marketplace, as compared to its competitors, could limit BB&T’s ability to attract and retain customers and to compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on BB&T’s financial condition and results of operations.  

BB&T also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside of its market area. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer who can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This “disintermediation” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect BB&T’s operations, and the Company may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Unpredictable catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on BB&T.  

The occurrence of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornados, and other large scale catastrophes could adversely affect BB&T’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. BB&T has operations and customers along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts as well as other parts of the southeastern United States, which could be adversely impacted by hurricanes and other severe weather in those regions. Unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on BB&T in that such events could materially disrupt its operations or the ability or willingness of its customers to access the financial services offered by BB&T. BB&T’s property and casualty insurance operations also expose it to claims arising out of catastrophes. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Although BB&T carries insurance to mitigate its exposure to certain catastrophic events, these events could nevertheless reduce BB&T’s earnings and cause volatility in its financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s financial condition and/or results of operations.  

BB&T faces significant operational risks related to its activities, which could expose it to negative publicity, litigation and/or regulatory action.  

BB&T is exposed to many types of risks, including operational, reputational, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders (including identity and information theft), unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from BB&T’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, activities related to asset sales and balance sheet management and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect BB&T’s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action.  

Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. BB&T’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. BB&T also may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. BB&T is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is BB&T) and to the risk that BB&T’s (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate.  

BB&T relies on other companies to provide certain key components of its business infrastructure.  

Third party vendors provide certain key components of BB&T’s business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution. While BB&T has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their operations. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those which result from their failure to provide services for any reason or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect BB&T’s ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.  

Significant litigation could have a material adverse effect on BB&T.  

BB&T faces legal risks in its business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against BB&T may have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to BB&T, which in turn could seriously harm BB&T’s business prospects.  

BB&T faces systems failure risks as well as security risks, including “hacking” and “identity theft.”  

The computer systems and network infrastructure BB&T and others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both BB&T’s internally developed systems and the systems of its third-party service providers. BB&T’s operations are dependent upon its ability to protect computer equipment against damage from fire,  

24  

Table of Contents 

 power loss or telecommunication failure. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in BB&T’s operations could adversely affect its business and financial results. In addition, BB&T’s computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm.  

Differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact BB&T’s financial statements.  

Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than BB&T and challenge tax positions that BB&T has taken on its tax returns. This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions or credits, and/or differences in the timing of these items. The differences in treatment may result in the payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s performance. For example, as discussed in Note 13 “ Income Taxes” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” in February 2010, BB&T received an IRS statutory notice of deficiency for tax years 2002-2007 asserting a liability for taxes, penalties and interest of approximately $892 million. As a procedural matter, and to limit further exposure to penalties and interest, BB&T paid the disputed tax, penalties and interest in March 2010 and filed a lawsuit seeking a refund in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. Final resolution of this matter is not expected within the next 12 months.  

BB&T may not be able to complete acquisitions, including the acquisition of BankAtlantic.  

BB&T must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions before it can complete an acquisition of another bank or bank holding company, including federal and/or state regulatory approvals. For example, BB&T is currently seeking approval for its proposed acquisition of BankAtlantic, a wholly owned subsidiary of BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc. pursuant to a definitive agreement executed in November 2011. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition and future prospects, including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities and protests from various stakeholders of both BB&T and its acquisition partner. Also, under the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. regulators must now take systemic risk into account when evaluating whether to approve a potential acquisition transaction involving a large financial institution like BB&T. BB&T cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. In specific cases, BB&T may be required to sell banks or branches, or take other actions as a condition to receiving regulatory approval. An inability to satisfy other material conditions necessary to consummate an acquisition transaction, such as third-party litigation, a judicial order blocking the transaction or lack of shareholder approval, could also prevent BB&T from completing an announced acquisition.  

BB&T may not be able to successfully integrate bank or nonbank mergers and acquisitions.  

Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of bank holding companies, banks and other nonbank entities BB&T acquires and, as a result, BB&T may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that it expects will result from such transactions. Achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. Additional operational savings are dependent upon the integration of the acquired or merged entity’s businesses with BB&T or one of BB&T’s subsidiaries, the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices. Complications or difficulties in the conversion of the core operating systems, data systems and products may result in the loss of customers, damage to BB&T’s reputation within the financial services industry, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such mergers or acquisitions. Annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the holding company, bank merger or nonbank merger or acquisition is delayed unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single data system is not accomplished on a timely basis.  

Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause BB&T not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of BB&T’s businesses or the businesses  

25  

Table of Contents 

 of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect BB&T’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES