ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

BB&T Corporation (“BB&T”, “the Company”, “the Corporation” or “the Parent Company”), is a financial holding company headquartered in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. BB&T conducts its business operations primarily through its commercial bank subsidiary, Branch Banking and Trust Company (“Branch Bank”), which has offices in North Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, South Carolina, Alabama, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, Washington D.C and Indiana. In addition, BB&T’s operations consist of a federally chartered thrift institution, BB&T Financial, FSB (“BB&T FSB”), and several nonbank subsidiaries, which offer financial services products.  

Operating Subsidiaries  

At December 31, 2011, the principal operating subsidiaries of BB&T included the following:  

   •    Branch Banking and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina  

   •    BB&T Financial, FSB, Columbus, Georgia  

   •    Scott & Stringfellow, LLC, Richmond, Virginia  

   •    Clearview Correspondent Services, LLC, Richmond, Virginia  

   •    Regional Acceptance Corporation, Greenville, North Carolina  

   •    American Coastal Insurance Company, Davie, Florida  

   •    Sterling Capital Management, LLC, Charlotte, North Carolina  

Branch Bank, BB&T’s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Branch Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for retail and commercial clients in its geographic markets, including small and mid-size businesses, public agencies, local governments and individuals, through 1,779 offices (as of December 31, 2011) located in North Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, South Carolina, Alabama, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, Washington D.C. and Indiana. Branch Bank’s principal operating subsidiaries include:  

   •    BB&T Equipment Finance Corporation, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which provides loan and lease financing to commercial and small businesses;  

   •    BB&T Investment Services, Inc., a registered broker-dealer located in Charlotte, North Carolina, which offers clients non-deposit investment alternatives, including discount brokerage services, equities, fixed-rate, variable-rate and index annuities, mutual funds, government and municipal bonds, and money market funds;  

   •    BB&T Insurance Services, Inc., headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, which offers property and casualty, life, health, employee benefits, commercial general liability, surety, title and other insurance products through its agency network;  

   •    Stanley, Hunt, DuPree & Rhine (a division of Branch Bank) with dual headquarters in Greensboro, North Carolina, and Greenville, South Carolina, which offers flexible benefit plans, and investment advisory, actuarial and benefit consulting services;  

   •    Prime Rate Premium Finance Corporation, Inc., located in Florence, South Carolina, and its subsidiary AFCO Credit Corporation, headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, which provide insurance premium financing to clients in the United States and Canada;  

   •    Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, LLC, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which specializes in arranging and servicing commercial mortgage loans;  

   •    Lendmark Financial Services, Inc., located in Covington, Georgia, which offers alternative consumer loans to clients unable to meet Branch Bank’s normal credit underwriting guidelines;  

   •    CRC Insurance Services, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do business nationwide; and  

5  

Table of Contents 

   •    McGriff, Seibels & Williams, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is authorized to do business nationwide and specializes in providing insurance products on an agency basis to large commercial and energy clients, including many Fortune 500 companies.  

BB&T FSB is a federal savings bank. BB&T FSB provides services to clients throughout the United States and was formed to help improve the operating efficiency of certain business activities for subsidiaries which are national in scope. In addition to credit card lending, the following businesses operate as either subsidiaries or divisions of BB&T FSB:  

   •    Sheffield Financial (a division of BB&T FSB), based in Clemmons, North Carolina, which specializes in loans to small commercial lawn care businesses across the country for the purchase of outdoor power equipment and loans to individuals for power sport and leisure equipment; and  

   •    MidAmerica Gift Certificate Company, which specializes in the issuance and sale of retail giftcards through a nationwide network of authorized agents.  

Major Nonbank Subsidiaries  

BB&T also has a number of nonbank subsidiaries, including:  

   •    Scott & Stringfellow, LLC, which is a registered investment banking and full-service brokerage firm that provides services in retail brokerage, equity and debt underwriting, investment advice, corporate finance and equity research; and facilitates the origination, trading and distribution of fixed-income securities and equity products in both the public and private capital markets. It also has a public finance department that provides investment banking, financial advisory services and debt underwriting services to a variety of regional taxable and tax-exempt issuers. Scott & Stringfellow’s investment banking and corporate and public finance areas conduct business as BB&T Capital Markets;  

   •    Clearview Correspondent Services, LLC is a broker-dealer providing correspondent clearing services to other broker-dealers and entities involved in the securities industry. As a correspondent clearing firm, it provides clearing services to affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers;  

   •    Regional Acceptance Corporation, which specializes in indirect financing for consumer purchases of primarily mid-model and late-model used automobiles;  

   •    American Coastal Insurance Company, an admitted Florida specialty insurance company that underwrites property insurance risks for commercial condominium or cooperative associations; and  

   •    Sterling Capital Management, LLC, a registered investment advisor and the advisor to the Sterling Capital Management Funds and Sterling Capital Variable Insurance Funds, provides tailored investment management solutions to meet the specific needs and objectives of individual and institutional clients through a full range of investment strategies, including domestic and international equity, alternative investment products and strategies, and fixed income investing.  

Services  

BB&T’s subsidiaries offer a variety of services targeted to retail and commercial clients. BB&T’s objective is to offer clients a full array of products to meet all their financial needs.  

6  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table reflects BB&T’s deposit market share and branch locations by state.  

Table 1  

BB&T Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Excludes home office deposits.  

 (2) Source: FDIC.gov—data as of June 30, 2011.  

 (3) As of December 31, 2011. Excludes 2 branches in Indiana.  

Competition  

The financial services industry is highly competitive and dramatic change continues to occur in all aspects of the Company’s business. The ability of nonbank financial entities to provide services previously reserved for commercial banks has intensified competition. BB&T’s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies and insurance companies. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The industry continues to consolidate, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of acquirers. In addition, some financial services entities are still experiencing significant challenges as a result  

7  

Table of Contents 

 of the economic crisis, resulting in bank and thrift failures. For additional information concerning markets, BB&T’s competitive position and business strategies, and recent government interventions see “Market Area” and “General Business Development” below.  

Market Area  

BB&T’s primary market area for its banking operations consists of North and South Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Georgia, eastern Tennessee, West Virginia, Kentucky, Florida, Alabama and Washington, D.C. In addition, BB&T has a smaller banking presence in Texas and Indiana. The Colonial acquisition facilitated BB&T’s entry into the Texas market. The markets that BB&T operates in have a diverse employment base and primarily consist of manufacturing, general services, agricultural, wholesale/retail trade, technology, government and financial services. Management strongly believes that BB&T’s community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Corporation’s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. Furthermore, BB&T believes its current market area will support growth in assets and deposits in the future.  

General Business Development  

BB&T is a regional financial holding company. BB&T has maintained a long-term focus on a strategy that includes expanding and diversifying the BB&T franchise in terms of revenues, profitability and asset size. This strategy has encompassed both organic growth and acquisitions of complementary banks and financial businesses. During the 1990’s and through the mid-2000’s, BB&T’s growth resulted largely from mergers and acquisitions as the economics of business combinations were compelling. Since that time, BB&T has focused more on organic growth, but is well positioned for strategic opportunities.  

Merger and Acquisition Strategy  

BB&T’s growth in business, profitability and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Management intends to remain disciplined and focused with regard to future merger and acquisition opportunities. BB&T will continue to assess bank and thrift acquisitions subject to market conditions, primarily within BB&T’s existing footprint, and will pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, specialized lending businesses, and fee income generating financial services businesses. BB&T’s strategy is currently focused on meeting the following three acquisition criteria:  

   •    transactions must be strategically attractive – meaning that any bank acquisition should be in BB&T’s existing footprint to allow for cost savings and economies of scale, or in contiguous states to provide market diversification;  

   •    any credit-related issues would need to be addressed; and  

   •    acquisitions must meet BB&T’s financial criteria – earnings per share should be accretive in Year 1, excluding merger-related charges, but including full run rate synergies; the internal rate of return should exceed 15%, and the transaction should be accretive to tangible book value or have a reasonable earn-back period.  

Regulatory Considerations  

The following discussion describes elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial holding companies and banks and specific information about BB&T and its subsidiaries. Regulation of banks, bank holding companies and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. As described in more detail below, comprehensive reform of the legislative and regulatory landscape occurred with the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) in 2010. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, and rulemaking activities, continued in 2011. In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory agencies, BB&T and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to various other laws, regulations, supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of BB&T and its ability to make distributions to shareholders.  

BB&T and its subsidiaries’ earnings are affected by general economic conditions, management policies, changes in state and federal laws and regulations and actions of various regulatory authorities, including those referred to in this section. Proposals to change the laws and regulations to which BB&T and its subsidiaries are subject are frequently introduced at  

8  

Table of Contents 

 both the federal and state levels. The likelihood and timing of any such changes and the impact such changes may have on BB&T and its subsidiaries are impossible to determine with any certainty. The description herein summarizes the significant state and federal laws to which BB&T and its subsidiaries currently are subject. To the extent statutory or regulatory provisions are described in this section, such descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions.  

Financial Regulatory Reform  

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is extensive, complicated and comprehensive legislation that impacts practically all aspects of a banking organization, representing a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act implements numerous and far-reaching changes that affect financial companies, including banks and bank holding companies such as BB&T, by, among other things:  

   •    Requiring regulation and oversight of large, systemically important financial institutions by establishing an interagency council on systemic risk and implementation of heightened prudential standards and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) for systemically important financial institutions (including nonbank financial companies), as well as the implementation of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) resolution procedures for liquidation of large financial companies to avoid market disruption;  

   •    applying the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies;  

   •    limiting the Federal Reserve’s emergency authority to lend to nondepository institutions to facilities with broad-based eligibility, and authorizing the FDIC to establish an emergency financial stabilization fund for solvent depository institutions and their holding companies, subject to the approval of Congress, the Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”) and the Federal Reserve;  

   •    centralizing responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new independent agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), with responsibility for implementing, enforcing and examining for compliance with federal consumer financial laws;  

   •    creating regimes for regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and non-admitted property and casualty insurers and reinsurers;  

   •    requiring any interchange transaction fee charged for a debit transaction be “reasonable” and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction, with new regulations that establish such fee standards, eliminate exclusivity arrangements between issuers and networks for debit card transactions and limit restrictions on merchant discounting for use of certain payment forms and minimum or maximum amount thresholds as a condition for acceptance of credit cards;  

   •    transferring the functions of the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) relating to federal savings associations, including rulemaking authority, to the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”);  

   •    implementing regulation of hedge fund and private equity advisers by requiring such advisers to register with the SEC;  

   •    providing for the implementation of certain corporate governance provisions for all public companies concerning executive compensation;  

   •    increasing the FDIC’s deposit insurance limits permanently to $250,000 for non-transaction accounts, providing for unlimited Federal deposit insurance on noninterest bearing demand transaction accounts at all insured depository institutions effective December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2012 and changing the assessment base as well as increasing the reserve ratio for the DIF to ensure the future strength of the DIF; and  

   •    reforming regulation of credit rating agencies.  

While the Dodd-Frank Act became law on July 22, 2010, many provisions did not become effective until January 21, 2011 and many of the provisions require additional rulemaking and further studies for implementation. Regulations for many key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have not yet been promulgated by the applicable federal regulators. BB&T  

9  

Table of Contents 

 will continue to evaluate the impact of any new regulations so promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others.  

Due to BB&T’s size, under current guidelines issued by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”) created by the Dodd-Frank Act, BB&T would be designated as “systemically significant” to the financial health of the U.S. economy and, as a result, will be subject to additional regulations by the Council. In general, the Council regulates the systemic risk of the financial system.  

In September 2011, the FDIC adopted rules implementing “living will” requirements for systemically significant financial institutions. These requirements impose obligations on systemically significant financial institutions to file, maintain and update plans for an institution’s rapid and orderly resolution in the event of its material financial distress or failure. Both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC must review and approve BB&T’s living will and are authorized to impose restrictions on BB&T’s growth and activities or operations if deemed necessary.  

As a bank holding company and a financial holding company under federal law, BB&T is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, (the “BHCA”) and the examination and reporting requirements of the Federal Reserve. Branch Bank and BB&T FSB are collectively referred to herein as the “Banks.” Branch Bank, a state-chartered commercial bank, is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks. BB&T FSB, a federally chartered thrift institution, is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. Each of the Banks also is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC.  

State and federal law govern the activities in which the Banks engage, the investments they make and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower, although BB&T FSB is entitled to federal preemption of various state laws. Various consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect the Banks’ operations. The Banks also are affected by the actions of the Federal Reserve as it attempts to control the monetary supply and credit availability in order to influence the economy.  

In addition to federal and state banking laws and regulations, BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in securities underwriting, dealing, brokerage, investment advisory and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, and supervision and examination by other state and federal regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( “FINRA”), the NYSE Euronext, Inc. (the “NYSE”), and various state insurance and securities regulators.  

Financial Holding Company Regulation  

Under current federal law, a bank holding company, such as BB&T, may elect to become a financial holding company, which allows the holding company to offer customers virtually any type of service that is financial in nature or incidental thereto, including banking and activities closely related thereto, securities underwriting, insurance (both underwriting and agency) and merchant banking. In order to become and maintain its status as a financial holding company, a financial holding company and all of its affiliated depository institutions must be well-capitalized, well-managed, and have at least a satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”) rating. If the Federal Reserve determines that a financial holding company is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the company has a period of time to come into compliance, but during the period of noncompliance, the Federal Reserve can place any limitations on the financial holding company that it believes to be appropriate. Furthermore, if the Federal Reserve determines that a financial holding company has not maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the company will not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the company will still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting merchant banking activities. BB&T became a financial holding company on June 14, 2000, and currently satisfies the requirements to maintain its status as a financial holding company.  

Most of the financial activities that are permissible for financial holding companies also are permissible for a “financial subsidiary” of one or more of the Banks, except for insurance underwriting, insurance company portfolio investments, real estate investments and development, and merchant banking, which must be conducted in a financial holding company. In order for these financial activities to be engaged in by a financial subsidiary of a bank, federal law requires the parent bank (and its sister-bank affiliates) to be well-capitalized and well-managed; the aggregate consolidated assets of all of  

10  

Table of Contents 

 that bank’s financial subsidiaries may not exceed the lesser of 45% of its consolidated total assets or $50 billion; the bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating; and, if that bank is one of the 100 largest national banks, it must meet certain financial rating or other comparable requirements.  

Current federal law also establishes a system of functional regulation under which the Federal Reserve is the umbrella regulator for bank holding companies, but bank holding company affiliates are to be principally regulated by functional regulators such as the FDIC for state nonmember bank affiliates, the OCC for thrifts, the SEC for securities affiliates and state insurance regulators for insurance affiliates. Certain specific activities, including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities may be conducted in the bank without the bank being deemed a “broker” or a “dealer” in securities for purposes of functional regulation. Although the states generally must regulate bank insurance activities in a nondiscriminatory manner, the states may continue to adopt and enforce rules that specifically regulate bank insurance activities in certain identifiable areas.  

The Dodd-Frank Act establishes additional regulation for bank holding companies, which will generally apply to BB&T. The Council is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to monitor emerging risks to financial stability, recommend heightened prudential standards for large, interconnected financial companies and require certain nonbank financial companies to be supervised by the Federal Reserve if their activities are determined to pose a risk to financial stability.  

The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes new prudential regulation on depository institutions and their holding companies. The law imposes new, more stringent standards and requirements with respect to (1) bank and nonbank acquisitions and mergers, (2) financial holding companies engaged in “financial activities,” (3) affiliate transactions and (4) proprietary trading, among other provisions.  

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency Regulation  

As a federally chartered thrift, BB&T FSB is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. BB&T FSB was previously subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, until the OTS became a part of the OCC on July 21, 2011, under the Dodd-Frank Act. Although the Dodd-Frank Act preserves federal thrift charters, the OCC appointed a new Deputy Comptroller who will be responsible for supervising and examining federal savings associations. The Dodd-Frank Act also eliminates the preemption of state consumer protection laws as applied to the operating subsidiaries of federally chartered thrifts, which may cause BB&T FSB to further reconsider its existing organizational structure and operations in the future.  

Acquisitions  

BB&T complies with numerous laws related to its acquisition activity. Under the BHCA, a bank holding company may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any bank holding company or bank or merge or consolidate with another bank holding company without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Current federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and bank holding companies without geographic limitation. Furthermore, a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, subject to any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years; and subject to certain deposit market-share limitations. After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to privately negotiated acquisition transactions.  

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations  

The Federal Reserve has enforcement powers over bank holding companies and their nonbanking subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve has authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative order or written agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of cease and desist orders, civil money penalties or other actions.  

There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to the depositors of such depository institutions and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event the depository institution is  

11  

Table of Contents 

 insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, under requirements of the Federal Reserve with respect to bank holding company operations, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to commit financial resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. In addition, the “cross-guarantee” provisions of federal law require insured depository institutions under common control to reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered or reasonably anticipated by the DIF as a result of the insolvency of commonly controlled insured depository institutions or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to commonly controlled insured depository institutions in danger of failure. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provision if it determines that a waiver is in the best interests of the DIF. The FDIC’s claim for reimbursement under the cross-guarantee provisions is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or its holding company but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and nonaffiliated holders of subordinated debt of the commonly controlled insured depository institution.  

Federal and state banking regulators also have broad enforcement powers over the Banks, including the power to impose fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a conservator (with the approval of the Governor in the case of a North Carolina state bank) in order to conserve the assets of any such institution for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The North Carolina Commissioner of Banks also has the authority to take possession of a North Carolina state bank in certain circumstances, including, among other things, when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock.  

Payment of Dividends; Capital Requirements  

BB&T Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Banks and its subsidiaries. The majority of BB&T’s revenue is from dividends paid to BB&T by Branch Bank. The Banks are subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends they can pay. In addition, BB&T and the Banks are subject to various regulatory restrictions relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital at or above regulatory minimums, and to remain “well-capitalized” under the prompt corrective action regulations summarized elsewhere in this section. Federal banking regulators have indicated that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only if (1) the organization’s net income available to common shareholders over the past year has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and (2) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. In November 2010, the Federal Reserve released additional guidance re-emphasizing the Federal Reserve’s expectations concerning the processes that firms that participated in the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”), like BB&T, should have in place to ensure that they hold adequate capital under adverse conditions to maintain ready access to funding. Any request by a bank holding company subject to SCAP, such as BB&T, to increase dividends on common stock, reinstate or increase repurchase programs or make other capital distributions will be evaluated based on the Federal Reserve’s assessment of capital adequacy.  

In November 2011, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule requiring bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including BB&T, to submit annual capital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios and to obtain regulatory approval before making capital distributions, including dividend payments and purchasing capital securities. This review is known as the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”). The regulatory process includes management’s proposals to undertake capital actions in 2012 under various economic scenarios, such as increasing dividend payments or issuing or repurchasing common or preferred securities. BB&T submitted its first such plan in advance of the January 9, 2012 deadline. BB&T’s 2012 capital actions will depend on the results of the CCAR process.  

North Carolina law states that, subject to certain capital requirements, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare a dividend of as much of that bank’s undivided profits as the directors deem appropriate.  

Each of the federal banking agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC, has issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to banking organizations they supervise, including bank holding companies and banks. Under the risk-based capital requirements, BB&T and the Banks are each generally required to maintain a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet activities, such as standby letters of credit) of 8%. At least half of the total capital must be composed of common shareholders’ equity excluding the over- or underfunded status of postretirement benefit obligations, unrealized gains or losses on debt  

12  

Table of Contents 

 securities available for sale, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale and unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of deferred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable capital securities; less nonqualifying intangible assets net of applicable deferred income taxes and certain nonfinancial equity investments. This is called “Tier 1 capital.” The remainder may consist of qualifying subordinated debt, certain hybrid capital instruments, qualifying preferred stock and a limited amount of the allowance for credit losses. This is called “Tier 2 capital.” Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital combined are referred to as total regulatory capital.  

The Federal Reserve requires bank holding companies that engage in trading activities to adjust their risk-based capital ratios to take into consideration market risks that may result from movements in market prices of covered trading positions in trading accounts, or from foreign exchange or commodity positions, whether or not in trading accounts, including changes in interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices. Any capital required to be maintained under these provisions may consist of “Tier 3 capital” consisting of forms of short-term subordinated debt.  

Each of the federal bank regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC, also has established minimum leverage capital requirements for banking organizations. These requirements provide that banking organizations that meet certain criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and good earnings, and that have received the highest regulatory rating must maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets of at least 3%. Institutions not meeting these criteria, as well as institutions with supervisory, financial or operational weaknesses, are expected to maintain a minimum Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets ratio at least 100 basis points above that stated minimum. Holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. The Federal Reserve also continues to consider a “tangible Tier 1 capital leverage ratio” (deducting all intangibles) and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activity.  

In addition, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC all have adopted risk-based capital standards that explicitly identify concentrations of credit risk and the risk arising from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution’s ability to manage these risks, as important factors to be taken into account by each agency in assessing an institution’s overall capital adequacy. The capital guidelines also provide that an institution’s exposure to a decline in the economic value of its capital due to changes in interest rates be considered by the agency as a factor in evaluating a banking organization’s capital adequacy. The agencies also require banks and bank holding companies to adjust their regulatory capital to take into consideration the risk associated with certain recourse obligations, direct credit subsidies, residual interest and other positions in securitized transactions that expose banking organizations to credit risk.  

As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, provisions were added that require federal banking agencies to develop capital requirements that address systemically risky activities. The effect of these capital rules will disallow trust preferred securities from counting as Tier 1 capital at the holding company level for entities with greater than $15 billion in assets with a three-year phase-in period beginning on January 1, 2013.  

In addition, in 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervisors of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee, published its “calibrated” capital standards for major banking institutions (“Basel III”). Under these standards, when fully phased in on January 1, 2019, banking institutions will be required to maintain heightened Tier 1 common equity, Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios, as well as maintaining a “capital conservation buffer.” The Tier 1 common equity and Tier 1 capital ratio requirements will be phased in incrementally between January 1, 2013 and January 1, 2015; the deductions from common equity made in calculating Tier 1 common equity (for example, for mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets and investments in unconsolidated financial institutions) will be phased in incrementally over a four-year period commencing on January 1, 2014; and the capital conservation buffer will be phased in incrementally between January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019. The Basel Committee also announced that a “countercyclical buffer” of 0% to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss-absorbing capital “will be implemented according to national circumstances” as an “extension” of the conservation buffer. The final package of Basel III reforms were approved by the G20 leaders in November 2010 and are subject to individual adoption by member nations, including the United States. If the foregoing revised capital standards are adopted in their current form, BB&T estimates these standards would have a negligible impact on BB&T’s ability to comply with the revised regulatory capital ratios based on BB&T’s current understanding of the revisions to capital qualification.  

13  

Table of Contents 

The ratios of Tier 1 capital and total capital to risk-weighted assets, and Tier 1 capital to adjusted average assets of BB&T, Branch Bank and BB&T FSB as of December 31, 2011, are shown in the following table.  

Table 2  

Capital Adequacy Ratios of BB&T Corporation and Banks  

December 31, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The federal banking agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC, are required to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions and their bank holding companies that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five capital categories for insured depository institutions for this purpose: “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” To be considered “well-capitalized” under these standards, an institution must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater; a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater; a leverage capital ratio of 5% or greater; and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure.  

BB&T, Branch Bank and BB&T FSB are all classified as “well-capitalized.” Federal law also requires the bank regulatory agencies to implement systems for “prompt corrective action” for institutions that fail to meet minimum capital requirements within the five capital categories, with progressively more severe restrictions on operations, management and capital distributions according to the category in which an institution is placed. Failure to meet capital requirements also may cause an institution to be directed to raise additional capital. Federal law also mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation, and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards.  

In addition to the “prompt corrective action” directives, failure to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver.  

Deposit Insurance Assessments  

The deposits of the Banks are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the limits set forth under applicable law. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system, which was amended pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the “Reform Act”) and further amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under this system, as amended, the assessment rates for an insured depository institution vary according to the level of risk incurred in its activities. Effective April 1, 2011, the FDIC implemented a revised assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each institution poses to the DIF. The new assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time, at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish the depleted insurance fund. The FDIC has published guidelines under the Reform Act on the adjustment of assessment rates for certain institutions. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. In addition, insured deposits have been required to pay a pro rata portion of the interest due on the obligations issued by the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to fund the closing and disposal of failed thrift institutions by the Resolution Trust Corporation.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Consumer Protection Laws  

In connection with their lending and leasing activities, each of the Banks is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and their respective state law counterparts.  

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new, independent federal agency, the CFPB, which was granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above and certain other statutes, effective July 21, 2011. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. Smaller institutions are subject to rules promulgated by the CFPB, but continue to be examined and supervised by federal banking regulators for consumer compliance purposes. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act will allow borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a “qualified mortgage” as defined by the CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations.  

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve adopted rules effective October 1, 2011, establishing standards for assessing whether the interchange fees that may be charged with respect to electronic debit transactions are “reasonable and proportional” to the costs incurred by issuers for such transactions. Interchange fees, or “swipe” fees, are charges that merchants pay to BB&T and other credit card companies and card-issuing banks for processing electronic payment transactions. Under the final rules, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction will be the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. An additional 1 cent per transaction fraud prevention adjustment is available to those issuers that comply with certain standards outlined by the Federal Reserve Board.  

Federal law currently contains extensive customer privacy protection provisions, including substantial customer privacy protections provided under the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (commonly known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act). Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, at the inception of the customer relationship and annually thereafter, the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the handling of customers’ nonpublic personal financial information. These provisions also provide that, except for certain limited exceptions, an institution may not provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means.  

The CRA requires the Banks’ primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC for Branch Bank and the OCC for BB&T FSB, to assess the bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by each Bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” This assessment is reviewed for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an insured depository institution, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a financial holding company, such as BB&T, also is assessed by the Federal Reserve in connection with any acquisition or merger application.  

Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation  

The Federal Reserve and FDIC have enacted consumer protection regulations related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions. In November 2009, the Federal Reserve amended its Regulation E to prohibit financial institutions, including BB&T, from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those types of transactions. The Regulation E amendments also require financial institutions to provide consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service and the consumer’s choices. BB&T completed its implementation of the changes as required by the Regulation E amendments in 2010.  

15  

Table of Contents 

In November 2010, the FDIC supplemented the Regulation E amendments by requiring FDIC-supervised institutions to implement additional changes relating to automated overdraft payment programs. The FDIC’s guidance took effect on July 1, 2011, requiring financial institutions to monitor overdraft payment programs for “excessive or chronic” customer use and undertake “meaningful and effective” follow-up action with customers that overdraw their accounts more than six times during a rolling 12-month period. The additional guidance also imposes daily limits on overdraft charges, requires institutions to review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from available overdraft coverage amounts and requires increased board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs. Branch Bank completed its implementation of the FDIC’s guidance in advance of the July 1, 2011 compliance date.  

USA Patriot Act  

The USA Patriot Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) contains anti-money laundering measures affecting insured depository institutions, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “IMLAFA”). The IMLAFA requires such financial institutions to implement policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions’ operations. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and bank holding company acquisitions. The Treasury Department has issued a number of regulations implementing the Patriot Act, which impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The obligations of financial institutions under the Patriot Act have increased, and may continue to increase. The increase in obligations of financial institutions has resulted in increased costs for BB&T, which may continue to rise, and also may subject BB&T to additional liability.  

Future Laws, Regulations and Governmental Programs  

Various laws, regulations and governmental programs affecting financial institutions and the financial industry are from time to time introduced in Congress or otherwise promulgated by regulatory agencies. Such measures may change the operating environment of BB&T and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. The nature and extent of future legislative, regulatory or other changes affecting financial institutions is very unpredictable at this time.  

Other Regulatory Matters  

BB&T and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to numerous examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, the FINRA, the NYSE, various taxing authorities and various state insurance and securities regulators. BB&T and its subsidiaries have from time to time received requests for information from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning their business and accounting practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business.  

Employees  

At December 31, 2011, BB&T had approximately 31,800 full-time equivalent employees compared to approximately 31,400 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2010.  

Web Site Access to BB&T’s Filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission  

All of BB&T’s electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available at no cost on the Corporation’s web site, www.BBT.com, through the Investor Relations link as soon as reasonably practicable after BB&T files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. BB&T’s SEC filings are also available through the SEC’s web site at www.sec.gov.  

16  

Table of Contents 

Corporate Governance  

Information with respect to BB&T’s Board of Directors, Executive Officers and corporate governance policies and principles is presented on BB&T’s web site, www.BBT.com, and includes:  

   •    Corporate Governance Guidelines  

   •    Corporate Board of Directors  

   •    Committees of the Corporate Board of Directors and Committee Charters  

   •    Codes of Ethics for Directors, Senior Financial Officers and Employees  

   •    Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Certifications  

   •    Executive Officers  

   •    Policy and Procedures for Accounting and Legal Complaints, including Whistleblower Procedures  

BB&T intends to disclose any substantive amendments or waivers to the Codes of Ethics for Directors or Senior Financial Officers on BB&T’s web site at www.BBT.com/Investor.  

NYSE Certification  

The annual certification of BB&T’s Chief Executive Officer required to be furnished to the NYSE pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual was previously filed with the NYSE on May 23, 2011.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Executive Officers of BB&T  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

18  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS