ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Executive Overview  

Significant accomplishments in 2011  

In the opinion of BB&T’s management, the Corporation’s most significant accomplishments during 2011 were as follows:  

   •    Credit quality improved significantly – nonperforming assets, excluding covered foreclosed property, declined $1.5 billion, or 38.3%  

   •    Increased cash dividend as a result of improved earnings – maintained one of the highest dividend yields of the 19 stress tested banks  

   •    Total end of period deposits increased 16.5% – mix improved with 24.5% growth in noninterest-bearing deposits  

   •    Total end of period loans increased 3.7% – growth accelerated during the year and diversification improved with less exposure to higher-risk real estate loans  

   •    Strong performance in specialized lending, large corporate banking, wealth management, payment services, direct retail lending and mortgage production  

   •    Continued to enhance risk management structure  

Challenges  

BB&T’s business has become more dynamic and complex in recent years. Consequently, management has annually evaluated and, as necessary, adjusted the Corporation’s business strategy in the context of the current operating environment. During this process, management considers the current financial condition and performance of the Company and its expectations for future economic activity, both on a national and local market scale. The achievement of BB&T’s key strategic objectives and established long-term financial goals is subject to many uncertainties and challenges. In the opinion of management, the challenges that are most relevant and likely to have a near term impact on performance are presented below:  

   •    Slow growth in the U.S. economy and economic impact from European crisis  

   •    Intense competition within the financial services industry  

   •    Cost and risk associated with the regulatory initiatives  

Overview of Significant Events and Financial Results  

The year 2011 was an outstanding year for BB&T considering the challenges facing the economy and financial services industry. The Company made significant progress towards emerging from the credit cycle. In addition, loan and deposit growth improved throughout the year, along with an improved diversification mix.  

Consolidated net income available to common shareholders for 2011 totaled $1.3 billion, an increase of $473 million, or 58.0%, compared to $816 million earned during 2010. On a diluted per common share basis, earnings for 2011 were $1.83, compared to $1.16 for 2010. BB&T’s results of operations for 2011 produced a return on average assets of 0.82% and a return on average common shareholders’ equity of 7.49% compared to prior year ratios of 0.54% and 4.85%, respectively.  

BB&T’s revenues for 2011 were $8.8 billion, on a tax-equivalent basis, which was down 6.9% compared to 2010. This was primarily due to lower noninterest income in the current year. The majority of the decline in noninterest income was due to fewer net securities gains and a decline in FDIC loss share income. Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, was up 3.6% compared to 2010, due to asset growth and a higher net interest margin. The improvement in the net interest margin reflects higher yields on assets acquired in the Colonial acquisition and lower funding costs.  

Credit costs improved significantly during 2011, as nonperforming assets, excluding covered foreclosed property, declined $1.5 billion, or 38.3%, compared to year-end 2010 and the overall quality of the loan portfolio improved. BB&T recorded a $1.2 billion provision for credit losses in 2011 compared to a $2.6 billion provision for credit losses recorded  

31  

Table of Contents 

 during 2010. Net charge-offs for 2011 totaled $1.7 billion compared to $2.5 billion for 2010. Net charge-offs for 2011 and 2010 included $87 million and $605 million, respectively, related to the nonperforming assets disposition strategy management began in the second quarter of 2010 and completed during the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition, there were $149 million and $90 million of losses in noninterest income related to sales and write-downs on commercial loans held for sale during 2011 and 2010, respectively. Foreclosed property expenses remained elevated in 2011, and totaled $802 million compared to $747 million in 2010. Management recorded additional write-downs during the latter-half of 2011 to accelerate its disposition efforts related to foreclosed property.  

BB&T’s total assets at December 31, 2011 were $174.6 billion, an increase of $17.5 billion, or 11.1%, compared to December 31, 2010. The growth in total assets reflects an increase of $13.2 billion in the total securities portfolio and $3.9 billion in total loans and leases. The increase in the securities portfolio was due to strong deposit growth and management’s strategy to comply with the proposed Basel III liquidity guidelines. Growth in total loans and leases accelerated during the year, as improved demand outpaced the runoff portfolios.  

Total deposits at December 31, 2011 were $124.9 billion, an increase of $17.7 billion, or 16.5%, from December 31, 2010. The increase in deposits was primarily due to strong growth in noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing balances from high-quality corporate clients, as part of management’s efforts to comply with the proposed Basel III liquidity guidelines. BB&T has continued to improve the deposit mix with noninterest-bearing accounts representing 20.6% of total deposits at December 31, 2011, compared with 19.2% at December 31, 2010.  

Total shareholders’ equity increased 6.0% compared to December 31, 2010. BB&T’s common equity increased primarily as a result of retained earnings. The Tier 1 common ratio was 9.7% at December 31, 2011 compared to 9.1% at December 31, 2010. In addition, the Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios were 12.5% and 15.7% at December 31, 2011, respectively. BB&T’s risk-based and tangible capital ratios remain well above regulatory standards for well-capitalized banks. As of December 31, 2011, measures of tangible capital were not required by the regulators and, therefore, were considered non-GAAP measures. Refer to the section titled “Capital” herein for a discussion of how BB&T calculates and uses these measures in the evaluation of the Company.  

On November 1, 2011, BB&T announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based BankAtlantic, a wholly-owned subsidiary of BankAtlantic Bancorp. Under the terms of the agreement, BB&T will acquire approximately $2.1 billion in loans and assume approximately $3.3 billion in deposits for an estimated premium of $301 million above the net asset value of BankAtlantic at closing. This represents a 9.05% deposit premium based on September 30, 2011 balances. The acquisition excludes all of BankAtlantic’s nonperforming and other criticized assets identified at September 30, 2011. No BankAtlantic Bancorp obligations are being assumed in the transaction. The premium to be paid by BB&T is subject to adjustment based on actual deposit balances at close, but in no event will it exceed $316 million. Excluding one-time merger costs, BB&T expects the transaction to be accretive to earnings per share in 2012. The transaction was approved by the boards of directors of both companies. Federal and state regulatory approvals will be required.  

BB&T also has recently announced the acquisitions of several insurance agencies. Early in 2012, BB&T announced the acquisition of the life and property and casualty insurance operating divisions of Roseland, New Jersey-based Crump Group Inc. for $570 million in cash. Crump is the largest independent wholesale distributor of life insurance and one of the largest providers of wholesale commercial insurance brokerage and specialty programs in the U.S. The transaction, which exceeds BB&T’s minimum acquisition criteria, is expected to add approximately $300 million in annual revenue and approximately $570 million of intangible assets to BB&T Insurance. The transaction, which is subject to regulatory approval, does not include Crump’s retirement services business (Ascensus). During the third and fourth quarters of 2011, BB&T announced the acquisitions of Liberty Benefit Insurance Services (“Liberty”) of San Jose, California, Atlantic Risk Management Corporation (“Atlantic Risk”) of Columbia, Maryland and the Precept Group (“Precept”), with offices in Irvine and San Ramon, California. Liberty is a full-service employee benefits broker that partners with large commercial clients to assist them with managing rising health care costs, changing regulations and complex benefits administration. Atlantic Risk is a commercial property and casualty and employee benefits broker that provides risk management consulting and a full array of business insurance products and services. Precept serves middle-market and large corporate clients, ranging from 50 to 50,000 employees, with benefits consulting, procurement, administration outsourcing, health management, retirement and online enrollment services.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Reclassifications  

In certain circumstances, reclassifications have been made to prior period information to conform to the 2011 presentation. Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported shareholders’ equity or net income.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

The accounting and reporting policies of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries are in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities. BB&T’s financial position and results of operations are affected by management’s application of accounting policies, including estimates, assumptions and judgments made to arrive at the carrying value of assets and liabilities and amounts reported for revenues and expenses. Different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes in BB&T’s consolidated financial position and/or consolidated results of operations and related disclosures. The more critical accounting and reporting policies include BB&T’s accounting for the allowance for credit losses, determining fair value of financial instruments, intangible assets and other purchase accounting related adjustments associated with mergers and acquisitions, costs and benefit obligations associated with BB&T’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, and income taxes. Understanding BB&T’s accounting policies is fundamental to understanding BB&T’s consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations. Accordingly, BB&T’s significant accounting policies and changes in accounting principles and effects of new accounting pronouncements are discussed in detail in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

The following is a summary of BB&T’s critical accounting policies that are highly dependent on estimates, assumptions and judgments. These critical accounting policies are reviewed with the Audit Committee of BB&T’s Board of Directors on a periodic basis.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

It is the policy of BB&T to maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses and a reserve for unfunded lending commitments that represent management’s best estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. Estimates for loan and lease losses are determined by analyzing historical loan and lease losses, historical loan and lease migration to charge-off experience, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, expected cash flows on purchased loans, current assessment of problem loans and leases, the results of regulatory examinations, and changes in the size, composition and risk assessment of the loan and lease portfolio. For restructured loans, default expectations and estimated slower prepayment speeds that are specific to each of the restructured loan populations are incorporated in the determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses. Also included in management’s estimates for loan and lease losses are considerations with respect to the impact of current economic events, the outcomes of which are uncertain. These events may include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in overall interest rates, political conditions, legislation that may directly or indirectly affect the banking industry and economic conditions affecting specific geographical areas and industries in which BB&T conducts business. The methodology used to determine an estimate for the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is inherently similar to the methodology used in calculating the allowance for loans and leases adjusted for factors specific to binding commitments, including the probability of funding and exposure at the time of funding. A detailed discussion of the methodology used in determining the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is included in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

A significant portion of BB&T’s assets and certain liabilities are financial instruments carried at fair value. This includes securities available for sale, trading securities, derivatives, certain loans held for sale, residential mortgage servicing rights and venture capital investments. At December 31, 2011, the percentage of total assets and total liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis was 16.6% and 1.0%, respectively. The vast majority of assets and liabilities carried at fair value are based on either quoted market prices or market prices for similar instruments. At December 31, 2011, 6.5% of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were based on significant unobservable inputs. This is 1.1% of BB&T’s total assets. See Note 18 “Fair Value Disclosures” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures regarding the fair value of financial instruments.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Securities  

The fair values for available-for-sale and trading securities are generally based upon observable market prices for similar instruments or quoted market prices. BB&T generally utilizes a third-party pricing service in determining the fair value of its securities portfolio. The pricing service uses observable inputs when available including benchmark yields, reported trades, broker-dealer quotes, issuer spreads, benchmark securities, bids and offers. These values take into account recent market activity as well as other market observable data such as interest rate, spread and prepayment information. Management performs various procedures to evaluate the accuracy of the fair values provided by the third-party service. These procedures include back-testing to compare the price realized on security sales to the daily pricing information received from the third party pricing service, comparison of a sample of pricing information received from the third party pricing service to other third party pricing sources, and review of additional information provided by the third party pricing service for selected securities. When market observable data is not available, which generally occurs due to the lack of liquidity for certain securities, the valuation of the security is subjective and may involve substantial judgment by management. As of December 31, 2011, BB&T had approximately $984 million of available-for-sale securities, which is less than 1% of total assets, valued using unobservable inputs. This total is almost entirely non-agency mortgage-backed securities that are covered by a loss sharing agreement with the FDIC.  

BB&T periodically reviews available-for-sale securities with an unrealized loss. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. The purpose of the review is to consider the length of time and the extent to which the market value of a security has been below its amortized cost. The primary factors BB&T considers in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary are long-term expectations and recent experience regarding principal and interest payments, and BB&T’s intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company would be required to sell those securities before the anticipated recovery of the amortized cost basis.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

BB&T has a significant mortgage loan servicing portfolio and related mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). BB&T has two primary classes of MSRs for which it separately manages the economic risk: residential and commercial. Residential MSRs are primarily carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income each period. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the income statement effect of changes in fair value, due to changes in valuation inputs and assumptions, of its residential MSRs. MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do occur, the precise terms and conditions typically are not readily available. Accordingly, BB&T estimates the fair value of residential MSRs using an option adjusted spread (“OAS”) valuation model to project MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates. The OAS model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenue, costs to service and other economic factors. BB&T reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions in the OAS model to reflect market conditions and assumptions that a market participant would consider in valuing the MSR asset. When available, fair value estimates and assumptions are compared to observable market data and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience. Due to the nature of the valuation inputs, MSRs are classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The value of MSRs is significantly affected by mortgage interest rates available in the marketplace, which influence mortgage loan prepayment speeds. In general, during periods of declining interest rates, the value of MSRs declines due to increasing prepayments attributable to increased mortgage-refinance activity. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the value of MSRs generally increases due to reduced refinance activity. Commercial MSRs are carried at the lower of cost or market and amortized over the estimated period that servicing income is expected to be received based on projections of the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows. The amount and timing of servicing asset amortization is based on actual results and updated projections. In addition, BB&T has approximately $14 million of residential MSRs that are valued at the lower of cost or market. These MSRs are associated with government sponsored programs that have prepayment assumptions that are difficult to model, which make it difficult to hedge the associated risk. Refer to Note 7 “Loan Servicing” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for quantitative disclosures reflecting the effect that changes in management’s assumptions would have on the fair value of MSRs.  

Loans Held for Sale  

BB&T originates certain mortgage loans to be sold to investors that are carried at fair value. The fair value is primarily based on quoted market prices for securities backed by similar types of loans. Changes in the fair value are recorded as a component of mortgage banking income while mortgage loan origination costs for loans held for sale for which the Corporation elected the Fair Value Option are recognized in noninterest expense when incurred. The changes in fair value of these assets are largely driven by changes in interest rates subsequent to loan funding and changes in the fair value of servicing associated with the mortgage loan held for sale. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the economic effect of changes in fair value of the underlying loans.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Derivative Assets and Liabilities  

BB&T uses derivatives to manage various financial risks. The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes and internal pricing models that are primarily sensitive to market observable data. BB&T mitigates the credit risk by subjecting counterparties to credit reviews and approvals similar to those used in making loans and other extensions of credit. In addition, certain counterparties are required to provide collateral to BB&T when their unsecured loss positions exceed certain negotiated limits. The fair value of interest rate lock commitments, which are related to mortgage loan commitments, is based on quoted market prices adjusted for commitments that BB&T does not expect to fund and includes the value attributable to the net servicing fee.  

Venture Capital and Similar Investments  

BB&T has venture capital and similar investments that are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these investments are recorded in other noninterest income each period. In many cases there are no observable market values for these investments and management must estimate the fair value based on a comparison of the operating performance of the company to multiples in the marketplace for similar entities. This analysis requires significant judgment and actual values in a sale could differ materially from those estimated. As of December 31, 2011, BB&T had $261 million of these investments, which is less than 1% of total assets.  

Intangible Assets  

BB&T’s mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method, BB&T is required to record the assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, and liabilities assumed at their fair value, which often involves estimates based on third party valuations, such as appraisals, or internal valuations based on discounted cash flow analyses or other valuation techniques, all of which are inherently subjective. The amortization of identified intangible assets is based upon the estimated economic benefits to be received, which is also subjective. Acquisitions typically result in goodwill, which is subject to ongoing periodic impairment tests based on the fair value of net assets acquired compared to their carrying value. Refer to Note 1 in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of BB&T’s impairment testing process. While the excess of fair value over carrying value of some reporting units narrowed during the economic downturn, the results of BB&T’s most recent annual goodwill impairment analysis indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its respective carrying value by at least 20%, with the exception of one reporting unit, which had allocated goodwill of approximately $3 million. Management considers the sensitivity of the significant assumptions in its impairment analysis including consideration of a 10% change in estimated future cash flows or the discount rate for each reporting unit.  

Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations  

BB&T offers various pension plans and postretirement benefit plans to employees. The calculation of the obligations and related expenses under these plans requires the use of actuarial valuation methods and assumptions. Actuarial assumptions used in the determination of future values of plan assets and liabilities are subject to management judgment and may differ significantly if different assumptions are used. The discount rate assumption used to measure the postretirement benefit obligations is set by reference to published high-quality bond indices, as well as certain hypothetical spot-rate yield curves. These yield curves were constructed from the underlying bond price and yield data collected as of the plan’s measurement date and are represented by a series of annualized, individual discount rates with durations ranging from six months to thirty years. Each discount rate in the curve was derived from an equal weighting of the double A or higher bond universe, apportioned into distinct maturity groups. For durations where no bond maturities were available, the discount rates for these maturities were extrapolated based on historical relationships from observable data in similar markets. These indices and hypothetical curves give only an indication of the appropriate discount rate because the cash flows of the bonds comprising the indices and curves do not match the projected benefit payment stream of the plan precisely. For this reason, BB&T also considers the individual characteristics of the plan, such as projected cash flow patterns and payment durations, when setting the discount rate. Management evaluated the sensitivity changes in the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate would have on pension expense for 2012. A decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would result in an additional pension expense of approximately $14 million for 2012. Based on the balance of plan assets on December 31, 2011, a decrease of one percent in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase of approximately $25 million in pension expense for 2012. Refer to Note 14 “Benefit Plans” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for disclosures related to BB&T’s benefit plans.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Income Taxes  

The calculation of BB&T’s income tax provision is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgments. As part of the Company’s analysis and implementation of business strategies, consideration is given to the tax laws and regulations that apply to the specific facts and circumstances for any tax position under evaluation. For tax positions that are uncertain in nature, management determines whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. For tax positions that meet this threshold, management then estimates the amount of the tax benefit to recognize in the financial statements. Management closely monitors tax developments in order to evaluate the effect they may have on the Company’s overall tax position and the estimates and judgments used in determining the income tax provision and records adjustments as necessary.  

Analysis of Results of Operations  

Consolidated net income available to common shareholders totaled $1.3 billion for 2011, which generated basic earnings per common share of $1.85 and diluted earnings per common share of $1.83. Net income available to common shareholders for 2010 and 2009 was $816 million and $729 million, respectively. Basic earnings per common share were $1.18 in 2010 and $1.16 in 2009, while diluted earnings per common share were $1.16 and $1.15 for 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Two important and commonly used measures of bank profitability are return on average assets (net income as a percentage of average total assets) and return on average common shareholders’ equity (net income available to common shareholders as a percentage of average common shareholders’ equity). BB&T’s returns on average assets were 0.82%, 0.54%, and 0.56% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The returns on average common shareholders’ equity were 7.49%, 4.85%, and 4.93% for the last three years.  

Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin  

Net interest income is BB&T’s primary source of revenue. Net interest income is influenced by a number of factors, including the volume, mix and maturity of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the interest rates earned and paid thereon. The difference between rates earned on interest-earning assets and the cost of the supporting funds (with an adjustment made to tax-exempt items to provide comparability with taxable items, i.e., the “FTE” adjustment) is measured by the net interest margin.  

For 2011, net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis totaled $5.7 billion, compared with $5.5 billion in 2010 and $5.0 billion in 2009. Net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis increased 3.6% in 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in net interest income was driven by lower funding costs, which declined $418 million compared to 2010. The improvement in funding costs reflects a more favorable mix of funding liabilities, benefits from the accelerated amortization of derivatives that were unwound in a gain position and decreases in rates paid on deposits. The improvement in funding costs more than offset lower yields on new loans and securities. In addition, net interest income was higher due to better performance from loans and securities acquired in the Colonial acquisition as cash flow expectations improved from the prior estimates. Net interest income increased 9.9% in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in net interest income during 2010 resulted primarily from higher interest from the covered loan and securities portfolios, which were outstanding for the full year of 2010 compared to a partial year for 2009. In addition, the covered loan portfolio’s yield increased during 2010 as a result of improved expectations of cash flows from the original estimates. Net interest income for 2010 also benefited from lower funding costs, as management grew noninterest-bearing deposits and was able to reduce higher cost certificates and other interest-bearing liabilities.  

The FTE-adjusted net interest margin is the primary measure used in evaluating the gross profit margin from the portfolios of earning assets. The FTE-adjusted net interest margin was 4.06% in 2011, 4.03% in 2010 and 3.66% in 2009. The improvement in the net interest margin in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily reflects the higher yields on covered loans and securities and lower funding costs. During 2010, the average yield on interest earning assets increased 19 basis points compared to the average yield during 2009, while the average cost of funds over the same time period decreased 21 basis points. The improvement in the net interest margin during 2010 was primarily due to the higher yield assets acquired in the Colonial acquisition and lower funding costs.  

Management expects the net interest margin to be in the 3.85% to 3.95% range in the first quarter of 2012 due to runoff of the covered loan portfolio, lower investment yields, and an overall lower interest rate environment. Deposit costs are expected to continue to trend lower in 2012, which will benefit net interest income. The runoff of the covered loans will also result in a lower offset to noninterest income from the FDIC loss share asset. Despite the lower net interest margin, management expects net interest income to grow in 2012 due to an increase in earning assets.  

36  

Table of Contents 

The FTE yield on the total securities portfolio was 2.67% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 3.89% for the prior year. The decrease in the annualized FTE yield on the average securities portfolio was primarily the result of management’s efforts to deleverage and de-risk the portfolio during 2010. The securities purchased included floating rate and other securities with lower yields. The yield on the securities portfolio benefited from higher yields on covered securities due to the impact of duration adjustments in the prior year.  

The average annualized FTE yield for 2011 for the total loan portfolio was 5.87% compared to 5.88% for the prior year. The slight decrease in the FTE yield on the loan portfolio was primarily due to new loan volumes originated at lower rates, partially offset by the acquired loans from the Colonial transaction, which have produced higher yields due to better than expected performance.  

The average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits dropped to 0.68% during 2011, from 1.05% in 2010. The average cost for interest-bearing deposits declined during 2011 as a result of the decrease in relatively higher-rate CDs and management’s ability to lower rates on other deposit products.  

The rates paid on average short-term borrowings declined from 0.28% in 2010 to 0.27% during 2011. At December 31, 2011, the targeted Federal funds rate was a range of zero percent to 0.25%. The average rate on long-term debt during 2011 was 3.40%, a decrease of 56 basis points compared to the prior year. This reduction was due to new issuances at lower rates and the positive impact of accelerated amortization from certain derivatives that were unwound in a gain position.  

The following table provides information related to covered and acquired loans, covered securities and the FDIC loss sharing asset recognized in the Colonial acquisition.  

Table 6  

Revenue, Net of Provision Impact from Acquired Assets (1)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Presents amounts related to covered and acquired loans, covered securities and the FDIC loss sharing asset recognized in the Colonial acquisition. Excludes all amounts related to other assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition.  

Interest income for 2011 on loans and securities acquired in the Colonial acquisition increased $149 million compared to 2010, which was offset by a decrease in FDIC loss share income. The majority of the increase is related to loans and reflects higher expected cash flows based on the quarterly cash flow reassessment process. The yield on covered and other acquired loans for 2011 was 19.28% compared to 13.26% in 2010. At December 31, 2011, the accretable yield balance on these loans was $1.8 billion. Accretable yield represents the excess of future cash flows above the current net carrying amount of loans and will be recognized into income over the remaining life of the covered and acquired loans. The increase in interest income on securities compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year was primarily a result of security duration adjustments in the prior year, which is offset in FDIC loss share income.  

During 2011 and 2010, BB&T reclassified $334 million and $793 million, respectively, from the nonaccretable balance to accretable yield for purchased nonimpaired loans. During 2011 and 2010, BB&T reclassified $45 million and $405 million, respectively, from the nonaccretable balance to accretable yield for purchased impaired loans. These reclassifications were  

37  

Table of Contents 

 primarily the result of increased cash flow estimates resulting from improved loss expectations. These amounts are recognized as prospective yield adjustments and result in increased interest income over the remaining lives of the loan pools.  

The provision for covered loans was $71 million in 2011, a decrease of $73 million compared to the 2010. The provision expenses recorded during 2011 and 2010 resulted from the reassessment process, which showed decreases in expected cash flows in certain loan pools that were partially offset by recoveries in other previously impaired loan pools.  

FDIC loss share income, net decreased $173 million compared to 2010 primarily due to the impact of cash flow reassessments that generated additional interest income and a reduction of amounts due from the FDIC as a result of decreased loss projections on covered loans.  

The following table sets forth the major components of net interest income and the related annualized yields and rates for 2011, 2010 and 2009, as well as the variances between the periods caused by changes in interest rates versus changes in volumes. Changes attributable to the mix of assets and liabilities have been allocated proportionally between the changes due to rate and the changes due to volume.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Table 7  

FTE Net Interest Income and Rate / Volume Analysis  

Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Yields are stated on a taxable equivalent basis assuming tax rates in effect for the periods presented.  

 (2) Total securities include securities available for sale and securities held to maturity.  

 (3) Includes Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrangements, interest-bearing deposits with banks, trading securities, FHLB stock and other earning assets.  

 (4) Loan fees, which are not material for any of the periods shown, have been included for rate calculation purposes.  

 (5) Nonaccrual loans have been included in the average balances.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Provision for Credit Losses  

The provision for credit losses recorded by BB&T in 2011 was $1.2 billion, compared with $2.6 billion in 2010 and $2.8 billion in 2009. The provision for credit losses decreased 54.9% during 2011. Included in the provision for credit losses during 2011 was $71 million related to covered loans. The provision for credit losses recorded for covered loans reflects lower expected cash flows on certain loan pools compared to the original estimates. Approximately 80% of this provision for credit losses is offset through a credit to noninterest income based on the provisions of the FDIC loss sharing agreements. The decrease in the provision for credit losses during 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to improving credit trends and outlook, as net charge-offs in 2011 decreased 34.3% compared to the prior year.  

Net charge-offs were 1.57% of average loans and leases (or 1.59% excluding covered loans) for 2011 compared to 2.41% of average loans and leases (or 2.59% excluding covered loans) during 2010. Net charge-offs for 2011 included $87 million related to the transfer and sale of residential mortgage loans in the second quarter. This compares to $605 million of net charge-offs recorded in the prior year related to commercial and residential mortgage loans that were transferred to the held for sale portfolio. Excluding these items, net charge-offs were 1.50% and 1.97% of average loans and leases for 2011 and 2010, respectively. The largest decreases in the provision for credit losses for 2011 were in the commercial and residential mortgage portfolios. The decrease in the provision for credit losses during 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the improving economic outlook that began to materialize in the latter part of 2010.  

Noninterest Income  

Noninterest income is a significant contributor to BB&T’s financial success. Noninterest income includes insurance income, service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage banking income, investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, trust and investment advisory revenues, gains and losses on securities transactions, and commissions and fees derived from other activities. Management continues to focus on diversifying its sources of revenue to further reduce BB&T’s reliance on traditional spread-based interest income, as fee-based activities are a relatively stable revenue source during periods of changing interest rates.  

The following table provides a breakdown of BB&T’s noninterest income:  

Table 8  

Noninterest Income  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NM—not meaningful  

40  

Table of Contents 

Noninterest income was $3.1 billion for 2011, down 21.3% compared to 2010. The decline in noninterest revenue was due to fewer securities gains, lower income related to the FDIC loss share receivable, lower service charges on deposit accounts and lower mortgage banking revenues, while bankcard fees and merchant discounts and trust and investment advisory revenues grew compared to the prior year. Noninterest income was up slightly in 2010 compared to 2009. The growth in 2010 primarily was a result of an increase in securities gains and higher revenues from checkcard fees, bankcard fees and merchant discounts, and trust and investment advisory revenues, offset by lower revenues from BB&T’s mortgage banking operations, lower noninterest income from the FDIC loss share receivable, reduced service charges on deposit accounts and lower revenues from other noninterest income sources. The major categories of noninterest income and fluctuations in these amounts are discussed in the following paragraphs. These fluctuations include the impact of acquisitions.  

Income from BB&T’s insurance agency/brokerage operations was the largest source of noninterest income. Insurance income was up slightly in 2011, as pricing for premiums remained soft throughout the year. Insurance income was down slightly in 2010. Insurance commissions declined $29 million during 2010 reflecting continued softness in the industry’s pricing for premiums, which was partially offset by an increase of $23 million in insurance income from underwriting activities. The decline in insurance commissions was primarily related to property and casualty insurance.  

Service charges on deposit accounts represent BB&T’s second largest category of noninterest revenue. Service charges declined $55 million, or 8.9%, in 2011. Service charge revenue declined $72 million, or 10.4%, during 2010. The decreases in 2011 and 2010 were largely a result of a decline in overdraft fees as a result of mid-2010 changes to BB&T’s overdraft policies that were partially in response to new regulation. In 2011, management implemented various changes to deposit related products, which generated additional revenue and partially offset the reduction in overdraft fees.  

Income from mortgage banking activities includes gains and losses from the sale of mortgage loans, revenue from servicing mortgage loans, valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights, mortgage servicing rights-related derivative gains/losses and the amortization or realization of expected mortgage servicing rights cash flows. Mortgage banking income totaled $436 million, $521 million and $658 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease of $85 million in 2011 was primarily due to a decline of $97 million in residential mortgage production revenues due to lower volumes and pricing in 2011 and the decision in the third quarter of 2010 to retain a portion of 10 to 15 year mortgage production. This decline was partially offset by higher servicing revenues as a result of growth in the servicing portfolio and higher revenues from commercial mortgage banking revenues. Included in mortgage banking income for 2011 is a negative valuation adjustment of $341 million related to changes in assumptions for residential mortgage servicing rights that are carried at fair value. This was more than offset by gains of $394 million from derivative financial instruments used to manage the economic risk. Approximately $293 million of the decline in the valuation of the residential mortgage servicing rights was due to increases in the prepayment speed assumption as a result of a decrease in interest rates. During 2011, management also revised its servicing cost assumption based on changes to regulations and industry standards that impact the mortgage servicing industry. The change in the servicing cost assumption resulted in a decline of approximately $30 million in the valuation of the mortgage servicing asset. BB&T was not a party to the consent orders issued to various mortgage servicers in the second quarter of 2011, however certain changes will impact the entire industry and are considered in the Company’s quarterly valuation. Mortgage banking income decreased $137 million, or 20.8%, during 2010, following a record year in 2009. Residential mortgage production income declined $156 million compared with 2009 due to lower gains on sales in the current year, as originations declined and the proportion of loans sold decreased due to a decision in the third quarter of 2010 to retain a portion of 10 to 15 year mortgage production. Residential mortgage servicing income was relatively flat in 2010 compared to 2009, as growth in servicing fees of $36 million from an increase in the size of the loan servicing portfolio was offset by a $35 million unfavorable net change in the valuation for mortgage servicing rights and related economic hedging activities. Commercial mortgage banking income was up $21 million, or 46.7%, in 2010 due to improved market conditions.  

Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions decreased $19 million, or 5.4%, compared to 2010, which increased $6 million, or 1.7%, compared to 2009. The decrease in 2011 was largely driven by lower revenues at BB&T Capital Markets, a division of Scott & Stringfellow, due to weaker market conditions during the year and a record fourth quarter in 2010. The increase in 2010 was largely driven by record fourth quarter performance as market conditions temporarily improved and more equity and fixed income deals were brought to market.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Checkcard fees decreased slightly in 2011 compared to 2010, due to the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, which was implemented on October 1, 2011. The decrease resulting from the implementation was more than offset by higher volumes during the year. The Durbin amendment limited the rate banks could assess for debit card transactions. In 2010, checkcard fees were up $47 million, or 20.7%, on higher volumes.  

Bankcard fees and merchant discounts increased $27 million in 2011 and $21 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increased bankcard fees were the result of higher volumes for both retail and commercial bankcard activities.  

Trust and investment advisory revenues are based on the types of services provided as well as the overall value of the assets managed, which is affected by stock market conditions. In 2011, trust and investment advisory revenues increased $14 million, or 8.8%, due to improved market conditions. During 2010, trust and investment advisory revenues increased by $20 million, or 14.4%, compared to 2009, primarily due to fee increases and improved market conditions.  

Income from bank-owned life insurance was $122 million for 2011 compared to $123 million in 2010 and $97 million in 2009. The increase in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to new purchases and excess death proceeds.  

FDIC loss share income reflects the offset to the provision for covered loans, accretion of the FDIC receivable due to credit loss improvement and accretion related to covered securities. During 2011 and 2010, covered loans experienced better performance than originally anticipated resulting in additional interest income. A significant portion of the increases in interest income for 2011 and 2010 was offset by reductions in noninterest income. For 2011 and 2010, noninterest income was reduced by $297 million and $203 million, respectively, related to improvement in loan performance. These decreases in income were partially offset by increases of $57 million and $115 million, respectively, which reflected approximately 80% of the provision for credit losses recorded on covered loans for 2011 and 2010.  

BB&T recognized $62 million in net securities gains during 2011. The net securities gains during 2011 included $174 million of net gains realized from securities sales and $112 million of other-than-temporary impairments. The other-than-temporary impairment charges recognized during 2011 are due to weaker actual and forecasted collateral performance for non-agency mortgage-backed securities. BB&T recognized $554 million in net securities gains during 2010. The net securities gains recognized in 2010 included $585 million of net gains realized from securities sales and $31 million of losses as a result of other-than-temporary impairments. The large increase in securities gains during 2010 reflects the results of the balance sheet deleveraging strategy that was executed during the second quarter of 2010 and the de-risking of the investment portfolio that began during the third quarter of 2010 and was completed in the fourth quarter. Refer to the “Analysis of Financial Condition – Investment Activities” section for a detailed discussion of strategies executed during the years presented.  

Other income decreased $60 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to losses and write-downs on commercial loans that were transferred to the loans held for sale portfolio in 2010 in connection with management’s nonperforming loan disposition strategy. There was a total of $149 million of losses and write-downs recorded in 2011 compared to $90 million in 2010. Other income decreased $107 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to losses and write-downs on commercial loans that were transferred to the loans held for sale portfolio in connection with management’s nonperforming loan disposition strategy.  

Noninterest revenue sources have been negatively impacted by many regulatory initiatives over the past several years, including changes to Regulation E, posting order of client transactions and limits on interchange revenue. Management now estimates that this has negatively impacted revenues by approximately $360 million on an annual run rate basis beginning in 2012. To date, management has implemented or identified changes in products and fees to offset slightly over half of the potential lost revenue and is continuing to evaluate the Company’s product offerings in an effort to eliminate, to the extent possible, the negative financial impacts of these regulatory changes. Management currently expects noninterest income to increase during 2012 compared to 2011.  

Noninterest Expense  

Noninterest expense totaled $5.8 billion in 2011, $5.7 billion in 2010 and $4.9 billion in 2009. Noninterest expense includes certain merger-related and restructuring charges recorded during the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 as noted in the Table 10 below. These amounts totaled $16 million in 2011, $69 million in 2010, and $38 million in 2009. Additional disclosures related to these merger-related and restructuring charges are presented in “Merger-Related and Restructuring  

42  

Table of Contents 

 Charges.” The table below shows the components of noninterest expense and the discussion that follows explains the composition of certain categories and the factors that caused them to change in 2011 and 2010. The increase during 2010 was impacted by the acquisition of Colonial, which occurred in August of 2009.  

Table 9  

Noninterest Expense  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total personnel expense is the largest component of noninterest expense and includes salaries and wages, as well as pension and other employee benefit costs. Total personnel expense increased 4.2% during 2011. The increase included an additional $90 million for salaries and wages due to customary salary increases and higher incentive expense resulting from improved performance and production-related businesses. Pension and employee benefits expense was up $21 million, largely due to higher pension expense. Management expects pension expense to be approximately $70 million higher in 2012 due to the change in the discount rate. Total personnel expense increased $99 million, or 3.9%, in 2010. This increase was primarily driven by increases in salaries and wages of $153 million, which includes the impact of acquisitions. This increase was partially offset by a $54 million decrease in pension plan expense. The decrease in pension expense was largely a result of an increase in the value of pension assets during 2009, which resulted in an increase in the estimated return on plan assets and a decrease in the amortization of net actuarial losses for 2010. Additional disclosures relating to BB&T’s benefit plans can be found in Note 14 “Benefit Plans” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

Foreclosed property expenses include the gain or loss on sale of foreclosed property, valuation adjustments resulting from updated appraisals, and the ongoing expense of maintaining foreclosed properties. Foreclosed property expense increased $55 million in 2011 and $391 million in 2010. The increase in 2011 was largely due to an increase of $78 million for losses and write-downs, partially offset by a decrease of $23 million for maintenance and repair costs. Included in the losses and write-downs for 2011 was a $220 million liquidity valuation adjustment in the fourth quarter related to management’s decision to implement a more aggressive shorter period disposition strategy for foreclosed properties. The increase of $391 million for 2010 was primarily due to higher losses and write-downs and rising maintenance costs, which increased $331 million and $60 million, respectively. The carrying value of BB&T’s inventory of foreclosed property decreased $723 million, or 57.4%, during 2011 and $192 million during 2010. The decline in inventory during 2011  

43  

Table of Contents 

 reflects management’s more aggressive efforts to liquidate properties and fewer inflows. Management expects foreclosed property will trend lower throughout 2012, with quarterly expense averaging less than $100 million.  

Net occupancy and equipment expense increased slightly in 2011 and by $29 million, or 5.0%, in 2010. The increase in 2010 was largely a result of increased rent expense related to the Colonial acquisition.  

Loan processing expenses increased $26 million in 2011 compared to 2010 and $54 million during 2010 compared to 2009. The 2011 increase includes a $12 million increase for losses related to repurchase reserves on BB&T’s investor owned servicing portfolio. The 2010 increase includes additional costs related to the Colonial acquisition and a $23 million increase for losses related to repurchase reserves on BB&T’s investor owned servicing portfolio. BB&T had $123 million, $107 million and $33 million of loan repurchases and indemnification payments in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. While these levels have increased the past two years, they remain modest compared to the industry and trended down each quarter during 2011.  

Regulatory charges increased slightly in 2011 after a decline of $19 million in 2010. The decline in 2010 was primarily due to a special assessment of $68 million in 2009, which was offset by higher deposit insurance premiums in 2010. In 2011, the FDIC implemented a new methodology for deposit insurance, including changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The new methodology changed the assessment base from deposit liabilities to tangible assets and also introduced a new assessment framework to better assess the risk an institution poses to the deposit insurance fund. While BB&T’s asset base grew during 2011, which would have driven higher FDIC premiums, this was largely offset by improvements in credit quality measures.  

The remaining noninterest expenses decreased a net $69 million, or 5.4%, compared to 2010, which reflected an increase of $185 million, or 16.8%, compared to 2009. The decrease for 2011 includes lower merger-related and restructuring charges, as 2010 included charges related to the Colonial acquisition and systems conversion. In addition, amortization of intangibles declined by $23 million as intangibles are amortized on an accelerated basis. 2011 includes a $16 million loss from the sale of leveraged leases and an $11 million charge for an increase to the indemnification reserve related to the 2008 sale of Visa stock. These increases were partially offset by $19 million in lower advertising and other marketing expenses. The 2010 increase included the impact of $41 million in gains on the extinguishment of debt that were realized during 2009. In addition, merger-related and restructuring charges and software expense increased $31 million and $23 million, respectively, from the prior year. The increase in merger-related charges was primarily due to costs incurred in connection with the Colonial systems conversion. Advertising and other marketing expenses were also higher by $29 million compared to 2009. These increases were partially offset by a decline of $48 million in operational losses compared to the prior year. The increase for 2010 was also impacted by the Colonial acquisition, which was completed in August of 2009. Refer to Table 9 for additional detail on fluctuations in other categories of noninterest expense.  

Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges  

BB&T recorded certain merger-related and restructuring charges during the years 2011, 2010 and 2009. These charges are reflected in BB&T’s Consolidated Statements of Income as a category of noninterest expense.  

Merger-related and restructuring expenses or credits include: severance and personnel-related costs or credits, which typically occur in corporate support and data processing functions; occupancy and equipment charges or credits, which relate to costs or gains associated with lease terminations, obsolete equipment write-offs, and the sale of duplicate facilities and equipment; and other merger-related and restructuring charges or credits, which include expenses necessary to convert and combine the acquired branches and operations of merged companies, direct media advertising related to the acquisitions, asset and supply inventory write-offs, investment banking advisory fees and other similar charges. During 2011, BB&T recorded $16 million of merger-related and restructuring charges. These amounts were primarily related to management’s expense optimization efforts and the pending acquisition of BankAtlantic. During 2010, BB&T recorded $69 million of merger-related and restructuring charges. These amounts were primarily associated with the acquisition of Colonial and related systems conversions. The 2009 net merger-related and restructuring charges of $38 million were primarily associated with the acquisition of Colonial.  

At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were $20 million and $10 million, respectively, of merger-related and restructuring accruals. Merger-related and restructuring accruals are established when the costs are incurred or once all requirements for a plan to dispose of certain business functions have been approved by management. In general, a major portion of accrued costs are utilized in conjunction with or immediately following the systems conversion, when most of the duplicate  

44  

Table of Contents 

 positions are eliminated and the terminated employees begin to receive severance. Other accruals are utilized over time based on the sale, closing or disposal of duplicate facilities or equipment or the expiration of lease contracts. Merger and restructuring accruals are re-evaluated periodically and adjusted as necessary. The remaining accruals at December 31, 2011 are generally expected to be utilized during 2012, unless they relate to specific contracts that expire in later years.  

The following table presents a summary of activity with respect to BB&T’s merger-related and restructuring accruals.  

Table 10  

Merger-related and Restructuring Accrual Activity  

(Dollars in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Management currently expects lower noninterest expense in 2012 compared to 2011 largely due to lower credit costs and the impact of management’s expense optimization efforts.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

BB&T’s provision for income taxes totaled $296 million, $115 million and $159 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in the provision for income taxes for 2011 largely reflects higher pre-tax earnings, whereas the decline in the provision for income taxes during 2010 was largely due to lower pre-tax income, higher federal tax credits and higher tax-exempt income. BB&T’s effective tax rates for the years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 18.2%, 11.9% and 15.3%, respectively.  

BB&T has extended credit to and invested in the obligations of states and municipalities and their agencies, and has made other investments and loans that produce tax-exempt income. The income generated from these investments, together with certain other transactions that have favorable tax treatment, have reduced BB&T’s overall effective tax rate from the statutory rate in 2011 and 2010.  

Management currently expects the effective tax rate will be approximately 25% in 2012.  

Refer to Note 13 “Income Taxes” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the statutory tax rate and a discussion of uncertain tax positions and other tax matters.  

Segment Results  

BB&T’s operations are divided into six reportable business segments: Community Banking, Residential Mortgage Banking, Dealer Financial Services, Specialized Lending, Insurance Services, and Financial Services. These operating segments have been identified based on BB&T’s organizational structure. See Note 21 “Operating Segments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s operating segments, the internal accounting and reporting practices used to manage these segments and financial disclosures for these segments.  

45  

Table of Contents 

 Fluctuations in noninterest income and noninterest expense incurred directly by the segments are more fully discussed in the “Noninterest Income” and “Noninterest Expense” sections above.  

Community Banking  

Community Banking has a network of 1,779 banking offices at the end of 2011, a decrease of 3 offices compared to 1,782 banking offices at December 31, 2010. The decrease in offices is the result of closing low volume branches partially offset by de novo branch openings.  

Net income attributable to Community Banking increased $457 million to $533 million in 2011. The increase in net income compared to 2010 was primarily due to a lower allocated provision for loan and lease losses. Comparing 2010 to 2009, net income in the Community Banking segment decreased $222 million, or 74.5%, to $76 million primarily due to higher foreclosed property expense.  

Net interest income for Community Banking totaled $3.6 billion in 2011 compared to $3.8 billion in 2010. The decline in net interest income was primarily the effect of a lower interest rate environment. The decline in net interest income attributable to low interest rates was partially offset by improvements in the deposit mix, as the result of an increase in noninterest checking balances and a decrease in client certificates of deposits. Net interest income earned in 2010 rose by $234 million, or 6.6%, compared to 2009. The increase in the net interest income in 2010 was primarily due to improvements in the deposit mix.  

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses declined $1.2 billion, or 66.2%, to $608 million in 2011, reflecting lower charge-offs in the commercial real estate and residential ADC loan portfolios. The allocated provision for loan and lease losses declined $54 million, or 2.9%, from 2009 to 2010 due to lower loan balances.  

Noninterest income in Community Banking decreased $181 million, or 15.1%, to $1.0 billion in 2011, primarily due to higher losses on commercial loans held for sale, lower overdraft fees, and lower checkcard fees. This decline in noninterest income was offset by increases in merchant discounts, deposit account service charges, account analysis fees, and credit card interchange fees. In 2010, noninterest income declined $26 million, or 2.1%, driven primarily by lower overdraft fees, as well as higher losses on commercial nonperforming loans held for sale. Noninterest income allocated from other segments, which is reported as intersegment net referral fees (“referral fees”), declined by $12 million, or 8.2% in 2011, primarily due to lower referrals for residential mortgage lending as originations slowed. Noninterest income allocated from other segments of $146 million in 2010 was $40 million, or 21.5% lower than 2009, driven primarily by lower referrals for residential mortgage lending.  

Noninterest expense incurred by Community Banking during 2011 declined $31 million, or 1.3%, to $2.4 billion compared to 2010. The decline was primarily due to lower regulatory charges and personnel expense, partially offset by higher foreclosed property expense. Comparing 2010 to 2009, noninterest expense increased $483 million, or 25.2%. This increase was primarily due to higher foreclosed property expense, other real estate owned expense, and personnel expense. Allocated corporate expense increased $95 million, or 12.3%, to $866 million in 2011, primarily due to increases in loan administration expense, IT services and operations. Comparing 2010 to 2009, allocated corporate expenses increased by $93 million, or 13.7%.  

Total identifiable assets for Community Banking decreased $2.3 billion in 2011, or 3.6%, to $60.9 billion, compared to a decrease of $3.1 billion, or 4.6%, in 2010. The loan portfolios declined due to the sale of specific nonperforming commercial loans, the general economic conditions, and lack of strong demand for lending products during 2011 and 2010. Community Banking experienced solid organic deposit growth during 2011, excluding the decline in higher-cost certificates of deposit.  

Residential Mortgage Banking  

BB&T’s mortgage originations totaled $23.7 billion in 2011, down $1.2 billion, or 4.8%, compared to 2010. BB&T’s residential mortgage servicing portfolio, which includes both retained loans and loans serviced for third parties, totaled $91.6 billion at year end 2011, an increase of 9.8%, compared to $83.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Residential Mortgage Banking experienced a net loss of $17 million in 2011, compared to a net loss of $77 million in 2010. This improvement in performance was primarily due to a significant decline in the allocated provision for loan and lease losses. Net income in 2009 was $208 million, due to strong growth in loan originations during the year. The decline in net income in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a significant increase in the allocated provision for loan and lease losses.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Net interest income for Residential Mortgage Banking totaled $287 million in 2011, up $27 million, or 10.4%, compared to 2010. Net interest income in 2010 was down $83 million, or 24.2%, compared to 2009. The increase in net interest income in 2011 was primarily due to growth in the loans held for investment, as well as higher spreads to funding costs. The decrease in net interest income in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a higher charge for funds. Net interest income of $343 million in 2009 was driven by loan portfolio growth, as the result of record mortgage originations, as well as higher spreads to funding costs.  

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses was $326 million for 2011, down $227 million, or 41.0%, compared to $553 million in 2010. The decline in provision expense reflects improved credit quality in the loan portfolio. Net charge-offs of $87 million and $141 million were recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively, resulting from the sale of problem loans in connection with management’s nonperforming loan disposition strategy.  

Noninterest income in Residential Mortgage Banking declined $109 million, or 23.9%, to $348 million in 2011. This decrease was due to lower mortgage loan sale volumes and margins than the prior year. Noninterest income was down $150 million, or 24.7%, in 2010 compared to 2009. This decrease was due to lower loan production revenues compared to a record year in 2009. Noninterest expense incurred in 2011 within Residential Mortgage Banking increased $42 million, or 15.9%, to $306 million compared to 2010, reflecting higher foreclosed property expense, as well as an increase in provision expense associated with loan repurchases. Noninterest expense for 2010 was up $7 million, or 2.7%, from 2009 as higher provision expense associated with loan repurchases was offset by lower incentive expense on loan originations.  

Total identifiable assets of $25.5 billion for Residential Mortgage Banking increased $3.3 billion, or 14.8%. This followed an increase in identifiable assets of $3.1 billion, or 16.3%, in 2010. Increases in identifiable assets in 2011 and 2010 were due to management’s decision to retain a portion of 10 and 15 year mortgage production.  

Dealer Financial Services  

Net income from Dealer Financial Services was $204 million in 2011, up from $185 million in 2010. This increase is primarily attributable to growth in average loan balances, as well as higher spreads on funding costs. Comparing 2010 to 2009, net income increased $154 million, primarily due to a lower allocated provision for loan and lease losses.  

Net interest income from Dealer Financial Services increased by $61 million, or 11.9%, to $575 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in net interest income was primarily due to growth in the prime auto and marine and recreational vehicle loan portfolios, as well as an improved net interest margin in the Regional Acceptance Corporation’s point-of-sale loan portfolio. During 2010, net interest income increased by $61 million, or 13.5%, to $514 million compared to 2009. This increase was due to growth in the prime marine and recreational vehicle loan portfolio, as well as the acquisition of an indirect automobile loan portfolio in mid-2009.  

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses of $125 million was up 34.4% in 2011 after a 66.1% decrease to $93 million in 2010. The increase in 2011 reflects growth in Regional Acceptance Corporation’s delinquent accounts and nonperforming assets, which have risen from recent lows to more historical levels. The 2010 decrease reflects significant improvements in net charge-offs over 2009 levels.  

Total identifiable assets for Dealer Financial Services of $9.9 billion increased $456 million, or 4.8%, compared to 2010, reflecting growth in lending activities following a strong prior year increase of $780 million, or 9.0%.  

Specialized Lending  

Specialized Lending continued to expand during 2011 through strong organic growth. Net income was $238 million for 2011, up $70 million, or 41.7%, compared to 2010. The increase in net income was driven by strong loan production and portfolio growth, as well as continued improvement in credit quality. Net income in 2010 of $168 million was up $105 million, or 166.7%, compared to 2009, primarily due to organic loan growth, coupled with a lower allocated provision for loan and lease losses.  

Net interest income totaled $451 million in 2011, an increase of $44 million, or 10.8%, compared to 2010. Comparing 2010 to 2009, net interest income increased $104 million, or 34.3%, to $407 million. The growth in net interest income in 2011 was driven by strong loan growth by Sheffield Financial as the result of expanded dealer relationships, as well as higher net interest margins for Lendmark and Governmental Finance. Net interest income growth in 2010 was primarily  

47  

Table of Contents 

 driven by growth in loans at Sheffield Financial and Governmental Finance. Average loans for Specialized Lending grew by $1.3 billion, or 11.2%, to $12.8 billion in 2011 compared to 2010. Average loan growth for the segment was $1.4 billion, or 14.4%, in 2010 compared to 2009.  

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses totaled $68 million in 2011, a decrease of $42 million, or 38.2%, compared to 2010. Comparing 2010 to 2009, the allocated provision for loan and lease losses decreased $48 million, or 30.4%. The decline in the provision for 2011 was primarily attributable to generally improved credit performance across the lines of business. Due to the overall higher credit risk profiles of some of Specialized Lending’s clients, loss rates are expected to be higher than conventional bank lending. Loss rates are also affected by shifts in the portfolio mix of the underlying subsidiaries.  

Noninterest income totaled $210 million in 2011, an increase of $34 million, or 19.3%, compared to 2010. Noninterest income growth in 2011 was driven by Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, which achieved record commercial mortgage loan origination volume for delivery to the secondary market. Comparing 2010 to 2009, noninterest income increased $29 million, or 19.7%. Noninterest expense totaled $265 million in 2011, an increase of $20 million, or 8.2%, compared to 2010.  

The increase in noninterest expense was driven by internal growth. Comparing 2010 to 2009, noninterest expense totaled $245 million, an increase of $20 million, or 8.9%.  

Total identifiable assets of $16.8 billion for Specialized Lending increased $1.8 billion, or 12.1%, between 2010 and 2011 due primarily to organic growth in the loan portfolios of the underlying businesses. Comparing 2010 to 2009, total identifiable assets increased $2.5 billion, or 20.0%.  

Insurance Services  

Net income from Insurance Services was $104 million in 2011, essentially flat compared to 2010. Insurance Services continues to be impacted by the weak economy and soft insurance premium pricing, resulting in low commission revenue growth and pressure on brokerage operating margins. Comparing 2010 to 2009, net income declined $7 million, or 6.4%.  

Noninterest income produced by Insurance Services totaled $1.0 billion during 2011, 2010, and 2009. Acquisitions completed in 2011 included Precept, a full-service employee benefits consulting and administrative solutions firm with offices in Irvine and San Ramon, California; Liberty Benefit Insurance Services, a full-service employee benefits broker located in San Jose, California; and Atlantic Risk Management Corporation, a commercial property and casualty and employee benefits broker located in Columbia, Maryland.  

Noninterest expenses incurred within the Insurance Services segment increased $11 million, or 1.4%, in 2011 compared to 2010. This increase was due to higher operating costs, including increased legal costs compared to 2010. Comparing 2010 to 2009, noninterest expenses increased $20 million, or 2.6%.  

Financial Services  

Net income from Financial Services increased by $57 million, or 24.4%, to $291 million in 2011. The increase from 2010 was primarily attributable to loan and deposit growth, as well as a lower allocated provision for loan and lease losses. In 2011, Financial Services experienced positive results from Corporate Banking loan and deposit growth. Comparing 2010 to 2009, net income declined $19 million, or 7.5%, to $234 million as the result of a $27 million pre-tax gain on the sale of BB&T’s payroll processing business in 2009.  

Net interest income totaled $370 million in 2011, an increase of $56 million, or 17.8%, compared to 2010. Comparing 2010 to 2009, net interest income increased $25 million, or 8.7%. The increase in net interest income during 2011 was attributable to strong organic loan and deposit growth in Corporate Banking, offset by a lower net interest margin. Corporate Banking was also the strongest driver in the overall increase in net interest income for 2010.  

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses declined $42 million, or 93.3%, to $3 million in 2011 compared to 2010, reflecting continued excellent credit quality performance. The allocated provision for loan and lease losses increased $12 million, or 36.4%, from 2009 to 2010 primarily due to higher loan balances.  

Noninterest income in Financial Services totaled $692 million in 2011, up $35 million, or 5.3%, compared to $657 million earned during 2010. This increase in 2011 is primarily attributable to strong BB&T Capital Partners revenue growth related to maturing investments in its private equity and mezzanine funds. Additionally, Retirement and Institutional  

48  

Table of Contents 

 Services had strong noninterest income growth in 2011, with assets growing as the result of improved market conditions and business initiatives. Noninterest income declined by $37 million, or 5.3%, between 2009 and 2010. The revenue decrease in 2010 was attributable to losses taken on client derivatives, offsetting normalized growth in the various businesses and the $27 million pre-tax gain on the sale of BB&T’s payroll processing business in the fourth quarter of 2009. Noninterest expense of $583 million incurred by Financial Services increased $49 million, or 9.2%, in 2011, after declining $9 million in the prior year. The increase in noninterest expense in 2011 was the result of continued efforts to expand the sales force in the Wealth Division and Corporate Banking.  

Total identifiable assets for Financial Services of $7.5 billion increased $1.5 billion, or 24.7%, between 2010 and 2011 due primarily to organic loan growth in Corporate Banking. Comparing 2010 to 2009, total identifiable assets increased $900 million, or 17.5%.  

Analysis of Financial Condition  

A review of the Company’s major balance sheet categories is presented below.  

Investment Activities  

BB&T’s investment activities are governed internally by a written, board-approved policy. The investment policy is carried out by the Corporation’s Market Risk and Liquidity Committee (“MRLC”), which meets regularly to review the economic environment and establish investment strategies. The MRLC also has much broader responsibilities, which are discussed in the “Market Risk Management” section in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein.  

Investment strategies are reviewed by the MRLC based on the interest rate environment, balance sheet mix, actual and anticipated loan demand, funding opportunities and the overall interest rate sensitivity of the Corporation. In general, the investment portfolio is managed in a manner appropriate to the attainment of the following goals: (i) to provide a sufficient margin of liquid assets to meet unanticipated deposit and loan fluctuations and overall funds management objectives; (ii) to provide eligible securities to secure public funds, trust deposits as prescribed by law and other borrowings; and (iii) to earn the maximum return on funds invested that is commensurate with meeting the requirements of (i) and (ii).  

Branch Bank invests in securities as allowable under bank regulations. These securities may include obligations of the U.S. Treasury, U.S. government agencies, U.S. government-sponsored entities, including mortgage-backed securities, bank eligible obligations of any state or political subdivision, privately-issued mortgage-backed securities, structured notes, bank eligible corporate obligations, including corporate debentures, commercial paper, negotiable certificates of deposit, bankers acceptances, mutual funds and limited types of equity securities. Branch Bank also may deal in securities subject to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Scott & Stringfellow, LLC, BB&T’s full-service brokerage and investment banking subsidiary, engages in the underwriting, trading and sales of equity and debt securities subject to the risk management policies of the Corporation.  

49  

Table of Contents 

The following table provides information regarding the composition of BB&T’s available-for-sale and held to maturity securities portfolio for the years presented:  

Table 11  

Composition of Securities Portfolio  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The total securities portfolio increased $13.2 billion, or 57.1%, in 2011. The majority of the growth in the portfolio occurred in the latter half of the year, when management purchased additional securities as part of a strategy to comply with the proposed Basel III liquidity guidelines. Management currently expects the securities portfolio to remain at current levels in 2012.  

As of December 31, 2011, approximately 99% of the securities portfolio was backed by government agencies or government sponsored entities and approximately 28% were variable rate securities. The effective duration of the securities portfolio was 3.3 years at December 31, 2011 compared to 4.0 years at the end of 2010. The duration of the securities portfolio excludes equity securities, auction rate securities, and certain non-agency mortgage-backed securities that were acquired in the Colonial acquisition. As of December 31, 2011, the securities portfolio includes $22.3 billion of available-for-sale securities and $14.1 billion of held-to-maturity securities. During the first quarter of 2011, BB&T reclassified approximately $8.3 billion from securities available for sale to securities held to maturity. Management determined that it has both the positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. The reclassification of these securities was accounted for at fair value. Management transferred these securities to mitigate possible negative impacts on its regulatory capital under the proposed Basel III capital guidelines. In addition, management purchased additional securities into the held-to-maturity portfolio during the year based on its intent at the date of purchase.  

Mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored entities were 85.6% of the total securities portfolio at year-end 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the available-for-sale securities portfolio also includes $1.6 billion of securities that were acquired from the FDIC as part of the Colonial acquisition. These securities are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements and include $1.3 billion of non-agency mortgage-backed securities and $326 million of municipal securities.  

In 2011, primarily in connection with strengthening its liquidity under the proposed Basel III liquidity guidelines, management purchased a total of $13.4 billion of GNMA mortgage-backed securities. Management also sold approximately $4.0 billion of securities during the year, which produced net securities gains of $174 million. In addition, BB&T recognized $112 million in charges for other-than-temporary impairment related to BB&T’s portfolio of non-agency mortgage-backed securities. The other-than-temporary impairment charges were the result of weaker actual and forecasted collateral performance for non-agency mortgage-backed securities.  

50  

Table of Contents 

In 2010, management executed two major strategies to strengthen the balance sheet. In the second quarter of 2010, management executed a deleveraging strategy to better position BB&T’s balance sheet for a rising rate environment and achieve a better mix of earning assets. In connection with this strategy, management reduced the balance sheet by approximately $8 billion through the sale of securities. During the third and fourth quarters of 2010, management executed a strategy to further de-risk the available-for-sale securities portfolio. The de-risking strategy was aimed at further reducing the duration of the securities portfolio and reducing the risk of charges to other comprehensive income in a rising rate environment. Also to further protect against the risk of a rising rate environment, management replaced a portion of the securities sold with floating-rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 28% of the available-for-sale securities portfolio was floating rate. In addition, management sold approximately $400 million of non-agency mortgage-backed securities to reduce the potential for future credit losses. These strategies were the primary driver in generating net securities gains during 2010. Primarily in connection with these strategies, BB&T sold a total of $31.3 billion in available-for-sale securities during 2010, which produced net securities gains of $585 million. In addition, BB&T recognized $31 million in charges for other-than-temporary impairment related to BB&T’s portfolio of non-agency mortgage-backed securities.  

Refer to Note 2 “Securities” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s evaluation of securities for other-than-temporary impairment.  

51  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents BB&T’s securities portfolio at December 31, 2011, segregated by major category with ranges of maturities and average yields disclosed.  

Table 12  

Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Yields on tax-exempt securities are calculated on a taxable-equivalent basis using the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%. Yields for available-for-sale securities are calculated based on the amortized cost of the securities.  

 (2) For purposes of the maturity table, mortgage-backed securities, which are not due at a single maturity date, have been included in maturity groupings based on the contractual maturity. The expected life of mortgage-backed securities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay the underlying mortgage loans with or without call or prepayment penalties.  

 (3) Weighted-average yield excludes the effect of pay-fixed swaps hedging municipal securities.  

52  

Table of Contents 

Lending Activities  

The primary goal of the BB&T lending function is to help clients achieve their financial goals by providing quality loan products that are fair to the client and profitable to the Corporation. Management believes that this purpose can best be accomplished by building strong, profitable client relationships over time, with BB&T becoming an important contributor to the prosperity and well-being of its clients. In addition to the importance placed on client knowledge and continuous involvement with clients, BB&T’s lending process incorporates the standards of a consistent company-wide credit culture and an in-depth local market knowledge. Furthermore, the Corporation employs strict underwriting criteria governing the degree of assumed risk and the diversity of the loan portfolio in terms of type, industry and geographical concentration. In this context, BB&T strives to meet the credit needs of businesses and consumers in its markets while pursuing a balanced strategy of loan profitability, loan growth and loan quality.  

BB&T’s loan portfolio is approximately 50% commercial and 50% retail by design, and is divided into six major categories—commercial, direct retail, sales finance, revolving credit, residential mortgage and other lending subsidiaries. In addition, BB&T has a portfolio of loans that were acquired in the Colonial acquisition that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements. BB&T lends to a diverse customer base that is substantially located within the Corporation’s primary market area. At the same time, the loan portfolio is geographically dispersed throughout BB&T’s branch network to mitigate concentration risk arising from local and regional economic downturns. Refer to the “Risk Management” section herein for a discussion of each of the loan portfolios and the credit risk management policies used to manage the portfolios.  

The following table summarizes BB&T’s loan portfolio based on the regulatory classification of the portfolio, which focuses on the underlying loan collateral, and differs from internal classifications presented herein that focus on the primary purpose of the loan. Covered loans are included in their respective categories.  

Table 13  

Composition of Loan and Lease Portfolio  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

53  

Table of Contents 

The following table is based upon the regulatory classification of loans and reflects the scheduled maturities of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, as well as real estate construction loans:  

Table 14  

Selected Loan Maturities and Interest Sensitivity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Scheduled repayments are reported in the maturity category in which the payment is due. Determinations of maturities are based upon contract terms. BB&T’s credit policy typically does not permit automatic renewal of loans. At the scheduled maturity date (including balloon payment date), the customer generally must request a new loan to replace the matured loan and execute either a new note or note modification with rate, terms and conditions negotiated at that time.  

54  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents BB&T’s total loan portfolio based upon BB&T’s lines of business, as discussed herein, rather than upon regulatory reporting classifications:  

Table 15  

Composition of Loan and Lease Portfolio Based on Lines of Business  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Growth in the lending portfolio accelerated during the second half of 2011, as demand increased and runoff of higher-risk commercial real estate portfolios became less of a headwind. Total loans were $111.2 billion at year-end 2011, up $3.9 billion, or 3.7%, compared to the balance at December 31, 2010. Covered loans acquired in the Colonial acquisition decreased $1.3 billion, or 21.4%, during 2011. Average total loans were $106.0 billion for 2011, up $1.2 billion compared to the prior year. Management expects average total loans to grow in the 5-7% range for the first quarter of 2012 on an annualized basis compared to the fourth quarter of 2011, contingent upon the economy.  

55  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents BB&T’s average loans for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, segregated by major category:  

Table 16  

Composition of Average Loans and Leases  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Average commercial and industrial loans increased $2.1 billion, or 6.6%, in 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase in the commercial and industrial portfolio is largely due to management’s focused efforts at growing this component of the loan portfolio. Management has added a number of new producers in the corporate and middle-market banking area to capitalize on the strength of BB&T’s balance sheet and better diversify the portfolio. Average commercial real estate - residential, acquisition and development (ADC) portfolio held for investment declined $1.9 billion, or 41.0%, in 2011 and totaled $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011. This portfolio has declined steadily from $8.0 billion at year-end 2008 as management has been reducing exposures to higher-risk real estate lending. Average Commercial real estate – other loans for 2011 decreased $917 million, or 7.6%, compared to the prior year due to lower demand for commercial real estate loans.  

Average direct retail loans decreased 1.1% during 2011. This portfolio is primarily home equity loans and lines to individuals and has been negatively impacted by the downturn in the residential real estate markets. In addition, the residential lot/land component of this portfolio has been declining, as management continues to reduce exposures to these types of loans. Demand for home equity loans improved during the second quarter of 2011 and has continued into the first quarter of 2012. The period end balance for direct retail loans increased each of the last three quarters of 2011 and was $718 million, or 5.2%, higher than the balance at December 31, 2010.  

Average sales finance loans and average revolving credit reflected growth rates of 6.4% and 3.6% during 2011, respectively. BB&T concentrates its efforts on the highest quality borrowers in both of these product markets. The growth in average sales finance loans primarily reflects improvement in prime automobile lending.  

Average residential mortgage loans held for investment increased $2.8 billion, or 17.6%, compared to 2010. Management views mortgage loans as an integral part of BB&T’s relationship-based credit culture. During the third quarter of 2010, management made the decision to retain a portion of its 10 to 15 year production, which has led to the growth in this portfolio.  

Average loans held by BB&T’s other lending subsidiaries increased $502 million, or 6.5%, compared to 2010. The growth in this portfolio was primarily in small ticket finance, nonprime automobile financing and equipment leasing.  

56  

Table of Contents 

Asset Quality  

BB&T has continued to work with its clients that have experienced financial difficulties throughout the economic recession. During the second quarter of 2010, management implemented a comprehensive nonperforming asset disposition strategy with a goal of more aggressively reducing BB&T’s exposure to nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties and to reduce or eliminate any delay in exiting the credit cycle. The strategy was implemented during the second quarter of 2010 as management believed that pricing for distressed assets had improved. This strategy continued throughout the third and fourth quarters and into 2011. In the latter part of 2011, management began a more aggressive approach related to foreclosed properties to further expedite the disposition of its inventory of foreclosed assets.  

The implementation of the nonperforming asset disposition strategy included the identification of problem assets that were transferred from loans held for investment to loans held for sale. In connection with the strategy, management transferred loans with a book value of approximately $1.9 billion to loans held for sale during 2010. This included $1.5 billion of commercial loans, which were primarily in the residential, acquisition and development and other commercial real estate portfolios, and $388 million of residential mortgage loans. Net charge-offs of $605 million were recorded upon transfer to loans held for sale. This included $141 million related to residential mortgage loans and $464 million for commercial loans. BB&T also recognized $90 million of losses and additional write-downs related to commercial loans held for sale during 2010 and an additional $149 million of losses and write-downs in 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the disposition of all nonperforming commercial loans held for sale was complete. Management also executed an additional sale of $271 million of problem residential mortgage loans in the second quarter of 2011, which resulted in charge-offs of $87 million when the loans were transferred to the held for sale portfolio.  

Substantially all of the loans acquired in the Colonial acquisition are covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, whereby the FDIC reimburses BB&T for the majority of the losses incurred. In addition, all of the loans acquired were recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date without regard to the loss sharing agreements. Loans were evaluated and assigned to loan pools based on common risk characteristics. The fair value of the loans was estimated to be significantly below the unpaid principal balance. In accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, there was no allowance brought forward on any of the acquired loans, as the credit losses were included in the determination of the fair value of the loans at the acquisition date. Charge-offs are recognized for these loans when the actual losses exceed the estimated losses used in determining the fair value of the loans at the acquisition date. All of the loans acquired in the Colonial acquisition were considered to be accruing loans as of the acquisition date. In accordance with regulatory reporting standards, covered loans that are contractually past due will continue to be reported as past due and still accruing based on the number of days past due.  

Given the significant amount of acquired loans that are past due but still accruing, BB&T believes the inclusion of these loans in certain asset quality ratios including “Loans 30-89 days past due and still accruing as a percentage of total loans and leases,” “Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing as a percentage of total loans and leases,” “Nonperforming loans and leases as a percentage of total loans and leases” and certain other asset quality ratios that reflect nonperforming assets in the numerator or denominator (or both) results in significant distortion to these ratios. In addition, because loan level charge-offs related to the acquired loans are not recognized in the financial statements until the cumulative amounts exceed the original loss projections on a pool basis, the net charge-off ratio for the acquired loans is not consistent with the net charge-off ratio for other loan portfolios. The inclusion of these loans in the asset quality ratios described above could result in a lack of comparability across quarters or years, and could negatively impact comparability with other portfolios that were not impacted by acquisition accounting. BB&T believes that the presentation of asset quality measures excluding covered loans and related amounts from both the numerator and denominator provides better perspective into underlying trends related to the quality of its loan portfolio. Accordingly, the asset quality measures in Table 18 present asset quality information both on a consolidated basis as well as excluding the covered assets and related amounts. In addition, BB&T has excluded mortgage loans that are guaranteed by the government, primarily FHA/VA loans, from its asset quality metrics as these loans are recoverable through various government guarantees. Finally, BB&T has recorded on the balance sheet certain amounts related to delinquent GNMA loans serviced for others that BB&T has the option, but not the obligation, to repurchase and has effectively regained control. These amounts are also excluded from asset quality metrics as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding in accordance with investor guidelines. The amount of government guaranteed mortgage loans and GNMA loans serviced for others that have been excluded are noted in the footnotes to Table 17.  

57  

Table of Contents 

BB&T’s potential problem loans include loans on nonaccrual status or past due as disclosed in Table 17. In addition, for its commercial portfolio segment, loans that are rated special mention or substandard performing are closely monitored by management as potential problem loans. Refer to Note 4 “Allowance for Credit Losses” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to these potential problem loans.  

The following tables summarize asset quality information for the past five years.  

Table 17  

Asset Quality  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Covered and other acquired loans are considered to be performing due to the application of the accretion method. Covered loans that are contractually past due are noted in the footnotes below.  

 (2) Excludes nonaccrual mortgage loans that are government guaranteed totaling $55 million, $17 million and $6 million as of December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. BB&T revised its nonaccrual policy related to FHA/VA guaranteed loans during 2010. The change in policy resulted in a decrease in nonaccrual mortgage loans and an increase in mortgage loans 90 days past due and still accruing of approximately $79 million.  

58  

Table of Contents 

 (3) Excludes foreclosed real estate totaling $378 million, $313 million and $160 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

 (4) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase that are 90 days or more past due totaling $426 million, $425 million, $337 million, $74 million and $18 million at December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.  

 (5) Excludes mortgage loans 90 days or more past due that are government guaranteed totaling $206 million, $153 million, $8 million, $7 million, and $1 million at December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Includes past due mortgage loans held for sale.  

 (6) Excludes loans 90 days or more past due that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements totaling $736 million, $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  

 (7) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase that are past due 30-89 days totaling $7 million, $7 million, $10 million, $12 million and $12 million at December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.  

 (8) Excludes mortgage loans past due 30-89 days that are government guaranteed totaling $91 million, $83 million, $23 million, $25 million and $7 million at December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Includes past due mortgage loans held for sale.  

 (9) Excludes loans past due 30-89 days that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements totaling $222 million, $363 million and $391 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Table 18  

Asset Quality Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase. Refer to the footnotes of Table 17 for amounts related to these loans.  

 (2) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by the government. Refer to the footnotes of Table 17 for amounts related to these loans.  

 (3) These asset quality ratios have been adjusted to remove the impact of covered loans and covered foreclosed property. Appropriate adjustments to the numerator and denominator have been reflected in the calculation of these ratios. Management believes the inclusion of covered loans in certain asset quality ratios that include nonperforming assets, past due loans or net charge-offs in the numerator or denominator results in distortion of these ratios and they may not be comparable to other periods presented or to other portfolios that were not impacted by acquisition accounting.  

Nonperforming assets, which includes foreclosed real estate, repossessions, nonaccrual loans and certain restructured loans, totaled $2.8 billion (or $2.5 billion excluding covered loans and foreclosed property) at December 31, 2011, compared to $4.3 billion (or $4.0 billion excluding covered loans and foreclosed property) at December 31, 2010. The  

60  

Table of Contents 

 38.3% decrease in nonperforming assets, excluding covered foreclosed property, included decreases of $798 million in nonperforming loans and $723 million in foreclosed real estate. Nonperforming assets have decreased for seven consecutive quarters and are at their lowest level since December 31, 2008. Management expects nonperforming assets will continue to trend lower in the range of 5-10% for the first quarter of 2012, assuming no significant economic downturn or bulk sales of foreclosed properties. Refer to Table 19 for an analysis of the changes in nonperforming assets during 2011. As a percentage of loans and leases plus foreclosed property, nonperforming assets were 2.52% at December 31, 2011 (or 2.29% excluding covered loans and foreclosed property) compared with 3.94% (or 3.88% excluding covered loans and foreclosed property) at December 31, 2010.  

The current inventory of foreclosed real estate, excluding amounts covered under FDIC loss sharing agreements, totaled $536 million as of December 31, 2011. This includes land and lots, which totaled $278 million and had been held for approximately 16 months on average. The remaining foreclosed real estate of $258 million, which is primarily single family residential and commercial real estate, had an average holding period of 11 months.  

Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest, excluding government guaranteed loans and loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements, totaled $202 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $295 million at year-end 2010, a decline of 31.5%. Loans 30-89 days past due, excluding government guaranteed loans and loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements, totaled $1.1 billion at December 31, 2011, which was a decline of $276 million, or 19.6%, compared with $1.4 billion at year-end 2010. Past due loans are essentially at normalized levels similar to 2006 results.  

The following table presents the changes in nonperforming assets, excluding covered foreclosed property, during 2011.  

Table 19  

Rollforward of Nonperforming Assets  

December 31, 2011  

(Dollars in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Includes charge-offs and losses recorded upon sale of $241 million  

Troubled debt restructurings (“restructurings”) generally occur when a borrower is experiencing, or is expected to experience, financial difficulties in the near-term. As a result, BB&T will work with the borrower to prevent further difficulties, and ultimately to improve the likelihood of recovery on the loan. To facilitate this process, a concessionary modification that would not otherwise be considered may be granted resulting in classification of the loan as a restructuring. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional policy information regarding restructurings.  

BB&T’s performing restructured loans, excluding government guaranteed mortgage loans, totaled $1.1 billion at December 31, 2011, a decrease of $367 million, or 24.9%, compared with December 31, 2010. The decline was largely related to commercial performing restructurings. The following table provides a summary of commercial performing restructuring activity during the year ended December 31, 2011.  

61  

Table of Contents 

Table 20  

Rollforward of Commercial Performing Restructured Loans  

December 31, 2011  

(Dollars in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Payments and payoffs represent cash received from borrowers in connection with scheduled principal payments, prepayments and payoffs of amounts outstanding at the maturity date of the loan. Transfers to nonperforming restructurings represent loans that no longer meet the requirements necessary to reflect the loan in accruing status and as a result are subsequently classified as a nonperforming restructuring.  

Restructurings may be removed due to the passage of time if they: (1) did not include a forgiveness of principal or interest, (2) have performed in accordance with the modified terms (generally a minimum of six months), (3) were reported as a restructuring over a year end reporting period, and (4) reflected an interest rate on the modified loan that was a market rate at the date of modification. These loans were previously considered restructurings as a result of structural concessions such as extended interest-only terms or an amortization period that did not otherwise conform to normal underwriting guidelines.  

In addition, certain transactions may be removed from classification as a restructuring as a result of a subsequent non-concessionary re-modification. Non-concessionary re-modifications represent restructurings that did not contain concessionary terms at the date of a subsequent renewal/modification and there was a reasonable expectation that the borrower would continue to comply with the terms of the loan subsequent to the date of the re-modification. A re-modification may be considered for such a re-classification if the loan has not had a forgiveness of principal or interest and the modified terms qualify as more than minor such that the re-modified loan is considered a new loan. Alternatively, such loans may be considered for reclassification in years subsequent to the date of the re-modification based on the passage of time as described in the preceding paragraph.  

In connection with consumer loan restructurings, a nonperforming loan will be returned to accruing status when current as to principal and interest and upon a sustained historical repayment performance (generally a minimum of six months).  

62  

Table of Contents 

The following table provides further details regarding the payment status of TDRs outstanding at December 31, 2011:  

Table 21  

Troubled Debt Restructurings  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Past due performing restructurings are included in past due disclosures.  

 (2) Excludes restructured mortgage loans that are government guaranteed totaling $236 million.  

 (3) Nonperforming restructurings are included in nonaccrual loan disclosures.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses, which totaled $2.3 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, consists of the allowance for loan and lease losses, which is presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, which is included in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The allowance for loan and lease losses amounted to 2.10% of loans and leases held for investment at December 31, 2011 (or 2.05% excluding covered loans), compared to 2.62% (or 2.63% excluding covered loans) at year-end 2010. The decline in the allowance for loan and lease losses reflects continued improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio, especially in the commercial portfolio segment due to improvement in risk-grade migration trends and reductions in higher-risk commercial real estate loans. Impaired commercial loans continue to decline; however, the allowance for commercial loans as a percentage of impaired commercial loans has increased from 11.2% at December 31, 2010 to 12.4% at December 31, 2011. The ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses to nonperforming loans held for investment, excluding covered loans, was 1.13x at December 31, 2011 compared to 1.19x at December 31, 2010.  

BB&T’s net charge-offs totaled $1.7 billion for 2011 and amounted to 1.57% of average loans and leases (or 1.59% excluding covered loans), compared to $2.5 billion, or 2.41% of average loans and leases (or 2.59% excluding covered loans), in 2010. Included in net charge-offs for 2011 is $66 million of charge-offs related to covered loans. This represents realized losses in certain acquired loan pools that exceed the amounts originally estimated at the acquisition date. This impairment, which is subject to the loss sharing agreements, was provided for in prior quarters and therefore the charge-off had no income statement impact. Net charge-offs for 2011 and 2010, included $87 million and $605 million of losses on the sales of problem loans in connection with management’s nonperforming asset disposition strategy. Excluding these items, the adjusted net charge-off ratio would have been 1.50% in 2011 and 1.97% in 2010. Net charge-offs improved in all of the lending portfolios compared to the prior year, with the most significant reductions in the commercial real estate portfolios. Management expects net charge-offs to approximate 1.30% in the first quarter of 2012 and trend lower throughout the remainder of the year.  

63  

Table of Contents 

Refer to Note 4 “Allowance for Credit Losses” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional disclosures.  

The following table presents an estimated allocation of the allowance for loan and lease losses at the end of each of the last five years. This allocation of the allowance for loan and lease losses is calculated on an approximate basis and is not necessarily indicative of future losses or allocations. The entire amount of the allowance is available to absorb losses occurring in any category of loans and leases.  

Table 22  

Allocation of Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses by Category  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

64  

Table of Contents 

Information relevant to BB&T’s allowance for loan and lease losses for the last five years is presented in the following table.  

Table 23  

Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Includes charge-offs of $464 million in commercial loans and leases during 2010 in connection with BB&T’s nonperforming loans (“NPL”) disposition strategy.  

 (2) Includes charge-offs of $87 million and $141 million in residential mortgage loans during 2011 and 2010, respectively, in connection with BB&T’s NPL disposition strategy.  

65  

Table of Contents 

The following tables provide further details regarding BB&T’s commercial real estate lending, residential mortgage and consumer real estate portfolios as of December 31, 2011. Geographic information has been presented for states that exceed 10% of the category total. Consistent with BB&T’s belief that the presentation of certain asset quality measures excluding the impact of covered loans is more meaningful, certain information reflected in the following tables has been adjusted to exclude the impact of covered loans and foreclosed property. These adjustments have been identified and explained in the footnotes to each table.  

Table 24  

Real Estate Lending Portfolio Credit Quality and Geographic Distribution  

Commercial Real Estate Loan Portfolio (1) (2)  

As of / For the Period Ended December 31, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

66  

Table of Contents 

Applicable ratios are annualized.  

 (1) Commercial real estate loans (CRE) are defined as loans to finance non-owner occupied real property where the primary repayment source is the sale or rental/lease of the real property. Definition is based on internal classification. Excludes covered loans and in process items.  

 (2) Includes net charge-offs and average balances related to loans transferred to held for sale while they were held for investment. Loans transferred to held for sale are excluded from total loans outstanding. As of December 31, 2011, there were no ADC loans or other CRE loans held for sale.  

 (3) C&I loans secured by real property are excluded.  

The commercial real estate-residential ADC loans held for investment portfolio totaled $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011, a decrease of $1.3 billion from December 31, 2010. Nonaccrual ADC loans held for investment were $376 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease of $137 million, compared to $513 million at December 31, 2010. As a percentage of loans held for investment, ADC nonaccruals were 18.26% at December 31, 2011, compared to 15.09% at December 31, 2010. The allowance for loan and lease losses that is assigned to the ADC portfolio was 13.9% and 13.8% of the ADC portfolio as of December 31, 2011 and year-end 2010, respectively. The gross charge-off rate for the ADC portfolio was 11.01% for 2011, compared to 13.86% for 2010. The other component of the commercial real estate portfolio, which is largely office buildings, hotels, warehouses, apartments, rental houses and shopping centers, totaled $10.7 billion at December 31, 2011. As a percentage of loans held for investment, other commercial real estate nonaccruals were 3.68% at December 31, 2011, compared with 3.53% at December 31, 2010. The gross charge-off rate for the other commercial real estate portfolio was 2.53% for 2011 compared to 3.83% for 2010. The improvement in the net charge-off rate in the commercial real estate portfolios was largely due to the losses taken in 2010 related to loans transferred to the held for sale portfolio.  

Table 25  

Real Estate Lending Portfolio Credit Quality and Geographic Distribution  

Residential Mortgage Portfolio (1)  

As of / For the Period Ended December 31, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Applicable ratios are annualized.  

67  

Table of Contents 

 (1) Excludes mortgage loans held for sale, covered loans, mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase and in process items.  

 (2) Includes $297 million in loans originated by Lendmark Financial Services, which are disclosed as a part of the other lending subsidiaries category.  

 (3) Weighted based on outstanding balance.  

The residential mortgage loan portfolio, as presented in Table 25, totaled $20.7 billion as of December 31, 2011, an increase of 16.6% compared to December 31, 2010. As a percentage of loans, nonaccrual residential mortgage loans were 1.57% at December 31, 2011, compared with 2.72% at December 31, 2010. The gross charge-off rate for the residential mortgage loan portfolio was 1.48% in 2011 compared to 2.50% for 2010. The decline in nonaccrual residential mortgage loans and the lower charge-off rate reflect the sale of problem loans completed during the second quarter of 2011. During the second quarter of 2011, management sold approximately $271 million of problem residential mortgage loans and recorded charge-offs of $87 million. Of the $271 million of loans sold, $231 million were classified as nonaccrual. In 2010, management sold $388 million of problem residential mortgage loans and recognized $141 million of net charge-offs.  

Certain of BB&T’s residential mortgage loans have an initial period where the borrower is only required to pay the periodic interest. After the initial period, the loan will require both the payment of interest and principal over the remaining term. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 11% of the outstanding balance of residential mortgage loans is currently in the interest-only phase. Approximately 13% of these balances will begin amortizing within the next three years. As of December 31, 2011, 4.3% of these interest-only loans are 30 days or more past due and still accruing interest and 2.8% are on nonaccrual status.  

Table 26  

Real Estate Lending Portfolio Credit Quality and Geographic Distribution  

Direct Retail 1-4 Family and Lot/Land Real Estate Portfolio (1)  

As of / For the Period Ended December 31, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Applicable ratios are annualized.  

 (1) Direct retail 1-4 family and lot/land real estate loans are originated through the BB&T Community Banking network. Excludes covered loans and in process items.  

 (2) Home equity lines without an outstanding balance are excluded from this calculation.  

 (3) Based on number of accounts.  

68  

Table of Contents 

The direct retail consumer real estate loan portfolio, as presented in Table 26, totaled $13.3 billion as of December 31, 2011, a $556 million increase from December 31, 2010. This portfolio is composed of residential lot/land loans, home equity loans and home equity lines, which are primarily originated through the Community Banking network. As a percentage of loans, direct retail consumer real estate nonaccruals were 1.05% at December 31, 2011, compared to 1.46% at December 31, 2010. The gross charge-off rate for the direct retail consumer real estate lending portfolio was 1.92% for 2011 compared to 2.32% for 2010. The allowance for the residential lot/land portfolio was 9.2% of the residential lot/land portfolio as of December 31, 2011 compared to 7.3% at December 31, 2010.  

BB&T’s home equity lines generally require the payment of interest-only during the first 15 years after origination. After this initial period, the outstanding balance begins amortizing and requires both the payment of interest and principal. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 66% of the outstanding balance of home equity lines is currently in the interest-only phase. Less than 5% of these balances will begin amortizing within the next three years. The delinquency rate of interest-only lines is similar to amortizing lines.  

BB&T monitors the performance of its home equity loans and lines secured by second liens similar to other consumer loans and utilizes assumptions specific to these loans in determining the necessary allowance. BB&T also receives notification when the first lien holder, whether BB&T or another financial institution, has initiated foreclosure proceedings against the borrower. When notified that the first lien is in the process of foreclosure, BB&T obtains valuations to determine if any additional charge-offs or reserves are warranted. These valuations are updated at least annually thereafter.  

BB&T has limited ability to monitor the delinquency status of the first lien, unless the first lien is held or serviced by BB&T. As a result, using migration assumptions that are based on historical experience and adjusted for current trends, BB&T estimates the volume of second lien positions where the first lien is delinquent and appropriately adjusts the allowance to reflect the increased risk of loss on these credits. Finally, BB&T also provides additional reserves to second lien positions when the estimated combined current loan to value ratio for the credit exceeds 100%. As of December 31, 2011, BB&T held or serviced the first lien on 41.1% of its second lien positions.  

Funding Activities  

Deposits are the primary source of funds for lending and investing activities, and their cost is the largest category of interest expense. Scheduled payments, as well as prepayments, and maturities from portfolios of loans and investment securities also provide a stable source of funds. Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances, other secured borrowings, Federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowed funds, as well as longer-term debt issued through the capital markets, all provide supplemental liquidity sources. BB&T’s funding activities are monitored and governed through BB&T’s overall asset/liability management process, which is further discussed in the “Market Risk Management” section in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein. Following is a brief description of the various sources of funds used by BB&T.  

Deposits  

Deposits are attracted principally from clients within BB&T’s branch network through the offering of a broad selection of deposit instruments to individuals and businesses, including noninterest-bearing checking accounts, interest-bearing checking accounts, savings accounts, money market deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. Deposit account terms vary with respect to the minimum balance required, the time period the funds must remain on deposit and service charge schedules. Interest rates paid on specific deposit types are determined based on (i) the interest rates offered by competitors, (ii) the anticipated amount and timing of funding needs, (iii) the availability and cost of alternative sources of funding, and (iv) the anticipated future economic conditions and interest rates. Deposits are attractive sources of funding because of their stability and relative cost. Deposits are regarded as an important part of the overall client relationship and provide opportunities to cross-sell other BB&T services.  

Total deposits at December 31, 2011, were $124.9 billion, an increase of $17.7 billion, or 16.5%, compared to year-end 2010. Noninterest-bearing deposits totaled $25.7 billion at December 31, 2011, an increase of $5.0 billion, or 24.5%, from December 31, 2010. Foreign office deposits, which are placed through BB&T’s Cayman Island office, declined $4.5 billion during 2011, as the strong deposit growth limited the need for these types of funding sources. For the year ended December 31, 2011, total deposits averaged $112.3 billion, an increase of $5.5 billion, or 5.2%, compared to 2010.  

69  

Table of Contents 

 Average deposits grew at a slower pace than period-end deposits, as a significant effort was made in the latter part of 2011 to attract high-quality corporate clients in connection with meeting the proposed Basel III liquidity guidelines. Management expects average deposit growth to be more moderate in the first quarter of 2012 than the latter part of 2011.  

The following table presents BB&T’s average deposits for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, segregated by major category:  

Table 27  

Composition of Average Deposits  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The overall mix of deposits improved during 2011, with average noninterest-bearing deposits representing 20.4% of total deposits at December 31, 2011, compared to 18.5% at year-end 2010. In addition, interest checking and money market and savings accounts represented a higher percentage of total deposits, while certificates of deposit and foreign office deposits declined. The growth in deposits was largely driven by commercial and public funds clients, as some higher cost retail certificates of deposit were not renewed. The cost of interest-bearing deposits was 0.68% for 2011, compared to 1.05% in the prior year. The cost came down each quarter during 2011 and was 0.56% for the fourth quarter. Management expects that deposit costs will continue to trend down in 2012.  

The following table provides information regarding the scheduled maturities of time deposits that are $100,000 and greater at December 31, 2011:  

Table 28  

Scheduled Maturities of Time Deposits $100,000 and Greater  

December 31, 2011  

(Dollars in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Short-term Borrowings  

BB&T also uses various types of short-term borrowings in meeting funding needs. While deposits remain the primary source for funding loan originations, management uses short-term borrowings as a supplementary funding source for loan growth and other balance sheet management purposes. Short-term borrowings were 3.2% of total funding on average in 2011 as compared to 5.7% in 2010. See Note 8 “Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed Funds” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. The types of short-term borrowings that have been or may be used by the Corporation include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, master notes, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury tax and loan deposit notes and short-term bank notes. All of BB&T’s securities sold under repurchase agreements are reflected as collateralized borrowings on the balance sheet. Short-term borrowings at the end of 2011 were $3.6 billion, a decrease of $2.1 billion, or 37.1%, compared to year-end 2010. Average short-term borrowings totaled $5.2 billion during 2011  

70  

Table of Contents 

 compared to $9.0 billion last year, a decrease of 42.5%. The decline in the balances during 2011 primarily reflects the strong deposit growth from the Basel III liquidity initiative, which reduced the need for these types of funding sources. The difference between the average balance and the year-end balance resulted from larger deposit growth in the latter half of 2011.  

The following table summarizes certain pertinent information for the past three years with respect to BB&T’s short-term borrowings:  

Table 29  

Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under  

Agreements to Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed Funds  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Long-term Debt  

BB&T also uses long-term debt to provide both funding and, to a lesser extent, regulatory capital. Long-term debt was 13.7% of total funding on average during 2011 and 13.6% in 2010. See Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. Long-term debt at December 31, 2011 totaled $21.8 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2011, average long-term debt increased $604 million, or 2.8%, compared to the average for 2010.  

BB&T’s long-term debt consists primarily of FHLB advances, which composed 41.3% of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2011; senior notes of BB&T Corporation, which composed 23.1% of the year-end balance; subordinated notes of BB&T Corporation, which composed 10.8% of the year-end balance; and junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated trusts issued by the Corporation, which composed 15.0% of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2011. The remaining long-term debt primarily consists of both unsecured senior and subordinated borrowings by Branch Bank. FHLB advances are cost-effective long-term funding sources that provide BB&T with the flexibility to structure the debt in a manner that aids in the management of interest rate risk and liquidity.  

Shareholders’ Equity  

Shareholders’ equity totaled $17.5 billion at December 31, 2011, an increase of $982 million, or 6.0%, from year-end 2010. BB&T’s book value per common share at December 31, 2011 was $24.98, compared to $23.67 at December 31, 2010.  

Shareholders’ equity increased $836 million due to BB&T’s earnings available to common shareholders retained after dividends declared. In addition, shareholders’ equity increased $110 million as a result of the issuance of additional shares and other transactions in connection with BB&T’s equity-based compensation plans, 401(k) plan and dividend reinvestment plan. Accumulated other comprehensive income increased $34 million. The increase in accumulated other  

71  

Table of Contents 

 comprehensive income was primarily due to a $401 million after-tax increase in the value of the available for sale securities portfolio, partially offset by declines of $235 million related to pensions and other post-retirement benefit plans and $112 million in unrecognized losses on cash flow hedges.  

BB&T’s tangible shareholders’ equity available to common shareholders was $11.7 billion at December 31, 2011, an increase of $952 million, or 8.9%, compared to December 31, 2010. BB&T’s tangible book value per common share at December 31, 2011 was $16.73 compared to $15.43 at December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011, measures of tangible capital were not required by the regulators and, therefore, were considered non-GAAP measures. Refer to the section titled “Capital” herein for a discussion of how BB&T calculates and uses these measures in the evaluation of the Company.  

Risk Management  

In the normal course of business BB&T encounters inherent risk in its business activities. Risk is managed on a decentralized basis with risk decisions made as closely as possible to where the risk occurs. Centrally, risk oversight is managed at the corporate level through oversight, policies and reporting. The principal types of inherent risk include regulatory, credit, liquidity, market, operational, reputation and strategic risks.  

Regulatory risk  

Regulatory risk is the risk to earnings, capital, or reputation arising from violations of, or nonconformance with current and changing laws, regulations, supervisory guidance, regulatory expectations, or the rules, standards, or codes of conduct of self regulatory organizations.  

Credit risk  

Credit risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from the default, inability or unwillingness of a borrower, obligor, or counterparty to meet the terms of any financial obligation with BB&T or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk exists in all activities where success depends on the performance of a borrower, obligor, or counterparty. Credit risk arises when BB&T funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether on or off the balance sheet. Credit risk also occurs when the credit quality of an issuer whose securities or other instruments the bank holds deteriorates.  

BB&T has established the following general practices to manage credit risk:  

   •    limiting the amount of credit that individual lenders may extend to a borrower;  

   •    establishing a process for credit approval accountability;  

   •    careful initial underwriting and analysis of borrower, transaction, market and collateral risks;  

   •    ongoing servicing of individual loans and lending relationships;  

   •    continuous monitoring of the portfolio, market dynamics and the economy; and  

   •    periodically reevaluating the bank’s strategy and overall exposure as economic, market and other relevant conditions change.  

The following discussion presents the principal types of lending conducted by BB&T and describes the underwriting procedures and overall risk management of BB&T’s lending function.  

Underwriting Approach  

Recognizing that the loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk, proper loan underwriting is critical to BB&T’s long-term financial success. BB&T’s underwriting approach is designed to define acceptable combinations of specific risk-mitigating features that ensure credit relationships conform to BB&T’s risk philosophy. Provided below is a summary of the most significant underwriting criteria used to evaluate new loans and loan renewals:  

   •    Cash flow and debt service coverage—cash flow adequacy is a necessary condition of creditworthiness, meaning that loans not clearly supported by a borrower’s cash flow must be justified by secondary repayment sources.  

72  

Table of Contents 

   •    Secondary sources of repayment—alternative repayment funds are a significant risk-mitigating factor as long as they are liquid, can be easily accessed and provide adequate resources to supplement the primary cash flow source.  

   •    Value of any underlying collateral—loans are generally secured by the asset being financed. Because an analysis of the primary and secondary sources of repayment is the most important factor, collateral, unless it is liquid, does not justify loans that cannot be serviced by the borrower’s normal cash flows.  

   •    Overall creditworthiness of the customer, taking into account the customer’s relationships, both past and current, with other lenders—BB&T’s success depends on building lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with clients, which involves assessing their financial position and background.  

   •    Level of equity invested in the transaction—in general, borrowers are required to contribute or invest a portion of their own funds prior to any loan advances.  

Commercial Loan and Lease Portfolio  

The commercial loan and lease portfolio represents the largest category of the Corporation’s total loan portfolio. BB&T’s commercial lending program is generally targeted to serve small-to-middle market businesses with sales of $250 million or less. In addition, BB&T’s Corporate Banking Group provides lending solutions to large corporate clients. Traditionally, lending to small and mid-sized businesses has been among BB&T’s strongest market segments.  

Commercial and small business loans are primarily originated through BB&T’s Community Bank. In accordance with the Corporation’s lending policy, each loan undergoes a detailed underwriting process, which incorporates BB&T’s underwriting approach, procedures and evaluations described above. In addition, Branch Bank has adopted an internal maximum credit exposure lending limit of $245 million for a “best grade” credit, which is considerably below Branch Bank’s maximum legal lending limit. Commercial loans are typically priced with an interest rate tied to market indices, such as the prime rate and the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), or a fixed-rate. Commercial loans are individually monitored and reviewed for any possible deterioration in the ability of the client to repay the loan. Approximately 90% of BB&T’s commercial loans are secured by real estate, business equipment, inventories and other types of collateral.  

In the normal course of business, residential acquisition, development and construction, commercial construction or commercial land/development loan agreements may include an interest reserve account at inception. An interest reserve allows the borrower to add interest charges to the outstanding loan balance during the construction period. Interest reserves provide an effective means to address the cash flow characteristics of a real estate construction loan. Loan agreements containing an interest reserve generally require more equity to be contributed by the borrower to the construction project at inception. Loans with interest reserves are subject to substantially similar underwriting standards as loans without interest reserves.  

Loans with interest reserves are closely monitored through physical inspections, reconciliation of draw requests, review of rent rolls and operating statements and quarterly portfolio reviews performed by senior management. When appropriate, extensions, renewals and restructurings of loans with interest reserves are approved after giving consideration to the project’s status, the borrower’s financial condition, and the collateral protection based on current market conditions. In connection with the extension, renewal or restructuring of a loan with an interest reserve, additional interest reserves may be funded by the client, partially funded by the client and BB&T, or fully provided by BB&T. Typically, interest reserves provided by BB&T are secured by additional collateral and are limited to more conservative advance rates on the pledged collateral. These loans must also be supported by an analysis of the client’s willingness and capacity to service the debt.  

Interest that has been added to the balance of a loan through the use of an interest reserve is recognized as income only if the collectability of the remaining contractual principal and interest payments is reasonably assured. If a loan with interest reserves is in default and deemed uncollectible, interest is no longer funded through the interest reserve. Interest previously recognized from interest reserves generally is not reversed against current income when a construction loan with interest reserves is placed on nonaccrual status.  

At December 31, 2011, approximately $680 million of BB&T’s construction loan portfolio have active interest reserves (i.e., current funding of interest charges through a reserve) compared to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Interest income related to loans with active interest reserves was approximately $30 million and represents less than 1% of total interest income for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

73  

Table of Contents 

Direct Retail Loan Portfolio  

The direct retail loan portfolio primarily consists of a wide variety of loan products offered through BB&T’s branch network. Various types of secured and unsecured loans are marketed to qualifying existing clients and to other creditworthy candidates in BB&T’s market area. The vast majority of direct retail loans are secured by first or second liens on residential real estate, and include both closed-end home equity loans and revolving home equity lines of credit. Direct retail loans are subject to the same rigorous lending policies and procedures as described above for commercial loans and are underwritten with note amounts and credit limits that ensure consistency with the Corporation’s risk philosophy.  

Sales Finance Loan Portfolio  

The sales finance category primarily includes secured indirect installment loans to consumers for the purchase of new and used automobiles, boats and recreational vehicles. Such loans are originated through approved franchised and independent dealers throughout the BB&T market area. These loans are relatively homogenous and no single loan is individually significant in terms of its size and potential risk of loss. Sales finance loans are subject to the same rigorous lending policies and procedures as described above for commercial loans and are underwritten with note amounts and credit limits that ensure consistency with the Corporation’s risk philosophy. In addition to its normal underwriting due diligence, BB&T uses application systems and “scoring systems” to help underwrite and manage the credit risk in its sales finance portfolio. Also included in the sales finance category are commercial lines, serviced by the Sales Finance Department, to finance dealer wholesale inventory (“Floor Plan Lines”) for resale to consumers. Floor Plan Lines are underwritten by commercial loan officers in compliance with the same rigorous lending policies described above for commercial loans. In addition, Floor Plan Lines are subject to intensive monitoring and oversight to ensure quality and to mitigate risk from fraud.  

Revolving Credit Loan Portfolio  

The revolving credit portfolio comprises the outstanding balances on credit cards and BB&T’s checking account overdraft protection product, Constant Credit. BB&T markets credit cards to its existing banking client base and does not solicit cardholders through nationwide programs or other forms of mass marketing. Such balances are generally unsecured and actively managed by BB&T FSB.  

Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolio  

Branch Bank offers various types of fixed- and adjustable-rate loans for the purpose of constructing, purchasing or refinancing residential properties. BB&T primarily originates conforming mortgage loans and higher quality jumbo and construction-to-permanent loans for owner-occupied properties. Conforming loans are loans that are underwritten in accordance with the underwriting standards set forth by the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”). They are generally collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate, have loan-to-collateral value ratios of 80% or less, and are made to borrowers in good credit standing.  

Risks associated with the mortgage lending function include interest rate risk, which is mitigated through the sale of a substantial portion of conforming fixed-rate loans in the secondary mortgage market and an effective mortgage servicing rights hedging process. Borrower risk is lessened through rigorous underwriting procedures and mortgage insurance. The right to service the loans and receive servicing income is generally retained when conforming loans are sold. Management believes that the retention of mortgage servicing is a primary relationship driver in retail banking and a vital part of management’s strategy to establish profitable long-term customer relationships and offer high quality client service. BB&T also purchases residential mortgage loans from correspondent originators. The loans purchased from third-party originators are subject to the same underwriting and risk-management criteria as loans originated internally.  

Other Lending Subsidiaries Portfolio  

BB&T’s other lending subsidiaries portfolio consists of loans originated through six business units that provide specialty finance alternatives to consumers and businesses including: dealer-based financing of equipment for small businesses and consumers, commercial equipment leasing and finance, direct and indirect consumer finance, insurance premium finance,  

74  

Table of Contents 

 indirect subprime automobile finance, and full-service commercial mortgage banking. BB&T offers these services to bank clients as well as nonbank clients within and outside BB&T’s primary geographic market area.  

BB&T’s other lending subsidiaries adhere to the same overall underwriting approach as the commercial and consumer lending portfolio and also utilize automated credit scoring to assist with underwriting the credit risk. The majority of these loans are relatively homogenous and no single loan is individually significant in terms of its size and potential risk of loss. The majority of the loans are secured by real estate, automobiles, equipment or unearned insurance premiums. As of December 31, 2011, included in the other lending subsidiaries portfolio are loans to subprime borrowers of approximately $3.3 billion, or 3.0% of the total BB&T loan and lease portfolio. Of these, approximately $297 million are residential real estate loans and are included in the disclosures in Table 25 herein.  

Covered Loan Portfolio  

In connection with the FDIC-assisted acquisition of Colonial, BB&T acquired approximately $14.1 billion of loans that are covered by loss sharing agreements. BB&T recorded these loans at $9.6 billion, which represented their fair value on the acquisition date. The loans covered by loss sharing agreements are primarily commercial real estate loans and residential mortgage loans. Refer to Note 3 “Loans and Leases” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this report for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s covered loans.  

Liquidity risk  

Liquidity risk is the risk to ongoing operations arising from the inability to accommodate liability maturities, deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth, or meet contractual obligations when they come due. For additional information concerning BB&T’s management of liquidity risk, see the “Liquidity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” herein.  

Market risk  

Market risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from changes in the market value of portfolios, securities, or other financial instruments due to changes in the level, volatility, or correlations among financial market rates or prices, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, or other relevant rates or prices. For additional information concerning BB&T’s management of market risk, see the “Market Risk Management” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” herein.  

Operational risk  

Operational risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. This definition includes legal risk, which is the risk of loss arising from defective transactions, litigation or claims made, or the failure to adequately protect company-owned assets.  

Reputation risk  

Reputation risk is the risk to earnings, capital, enterprise value, the BB&T brand, and public confidence arising from negative publicity or public opinion, whether real or perceived, regarding BB&T’s business practices, products and services, transactions, or other activities undertaken by BB&T, its representatives, or its partners. Reputation risk may impact BB&T’s clients, employees, communities or shareholders, and is often a residual risk that arises when other risks are not managed properly.  

Strategic risk  

Strategic risk is the risk to earnings, capital, enterprise value, and to the achievement of BB&T’s Vision, Mission, Purpose, and business objectives that arises from BB&T’s business strategy, adverse business decisions, improper or ineffective implementation of decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in business environment. Strategic risk is a function of the compatibility of BB&T’s strategic goals, the business strategies developed to achieve those goals, the resources deployed against these goals, and the quality of implementation.  

75  

Table of Contents 

Risk Governance  

The management of risk has always been an enterprise-wide initiative at BB&T. It is part of BB&T’s mission statement that risk is managed to optimize the long-term return to shareholders, while providing a safe and sound investment.  

The Chief Risk Officer leads the Risk Management Organization (“RMO”), which designs, organizes and manages the risk framework. The management of risk begins at the business level through risk identification and management programs. The RMO is responsible for ensuring effective risk management oversight, measurement, monitoring, reporting and consistency of controls.  

Market Risk Management  

The effective management of market risk is essential to achieving BB&T’s strategic financial objectives. As a financial institution, BB&T’s most significant market risk exposure is interest rate risk in its balance sheet; however, market risk also includes product liquidity risk, price risk and volatility risk in BB&T’s lines of business. The primary objectives of market risk management are to minimize any adverse effect that changes in market risk factors may have on net interest income, and to offset the risk of price changes for certain assets recorded at fair value.  

Interest Rate Market Risk (Other than Trading)  

BB&T actively manages market risk associated with asset and liability portfolios with a focus on the strategic pricing of asset and liability accounts and management of appropriate maturity mixes of assets and liabilities. The goal of these activities is the development of appropriate maturity and repricing opportunities in BB&T’s portfolios of assets and liabilities that will produce consistent net interest income during periods of changing interest rates. These portfolios are analyzed for proper fixed-rate and variable-rate mixes under various interest rate scenarios.  

The asset/liability management process is designed to achieve relatively stable net interest margins and assure liquidity by coordinating the volumes, maturities or repricing opportunities of earning assets, deposits and borrowed funds. Among other things, this process gives consideration to prepayment trends related to securities, loans and leases and certain deposits that have no stated maturity. Prepayment assumptions are developed using market data for residential mortgage-related loans and securities, and internal historical prepayment experience for client deposits with no stated maturity and loans that are not residential mortgage related. These assumptions are subject to monthly back-testing, and are adjusted as deemed necessary to reflect changes in interest rates relative to the reference rate of the underlying assets or liabilities. On a monthly basis, BB&T evaluates the accuracy of its interest rate forecast simulation model, which includes an evaluation of its prepayment assumptions, to ensure that all significant assumptions inherent in the model appropriately reflect changes in the interest rate environment and related trends in prepayment activity. It is the responsibility of the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee to determine and achieve the most appropriate volume and mix of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as well as to ensure an adequate level of liquidity and capital, within the context of corporate performance goals. The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee also sets policy guidelines and establishes long-term strategies with respect to interest rate risk exposure and liquidity. The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee meets regularly to review BB&T’s interest rate risk and liquidity positions in relation to present and prospective market and business conditions, and adopts funding and balance sheet management strategies that are intended to ensure that the potential impact on earnings and liquidity as a result of fluctuations in interest rates is within acceptable standards.  

BB&T uses derivatives primarily to manage economic risk related to securities, commercial loans, mortgage servicing rights and mortgage banking operations, long-term debt and other funding sources. BB&T also uses derivatives to facilitate transactions on behalf of its clients. As of December 31, 2011, BB&T had derivative financial instruments outstanding with notional amounts totaling $67.6 billion. The estimated net fair value of open contracts was a gain of $19 million at December 31, 2011. See Note 19 “Derivative Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures.  

The majority of BB&T’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and, therefore, differ greatly from most commercial and industrial companies that have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories. Fluctuations in interest rates and actions of the Federal Reserve Board to regulate the availability and cost of credit have a greater effect on a financial institution’s profitability than do the effects of higher costs for goods and services. Through its balance sheet management function, which is monitored by the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee, management believes that BB&T is positioned to respond to changing needs for liquidity, changes in interest rates and inflationary trends.  

76  

Table of Contents 

Management uses Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis (“Simulation”) to measure the sensitivity of projected earnings to changes in interest rates. The Simulation model projects net interest income and interest rate risk for a rolling two-year period of time. Simulation takes into account the current contractual agreements that BB&T has made with its customers on deposits, borrowings, loans, investments and commitments to enter into those transactions. Furthermore, the Simulation considers the impact of expected customer behavior. Management monitors BB&T’s interest sensitivity by means of a model that incorporates the current volumes, average rates earned and paid, and scheduled maturities and payments of asset and liability portfolios, together with multiple scenarios of projected prepayments, repricing opportunities and anticipated volume growth. Using this information, the model projects earnings based on projected portfolio balances under multiple interest rate scenarios. This level of detail is needed to simulate the effect that changes in interest rates and portfolio balances may have on the earnings of BB&T. This method is subject to the accuracy of the assumptions that underlie the process, but management believes that it provides a better illustration of the sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates than other analyses such as static or dynamic gap. In addition to Simulation analysis, BB&T uses Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”) analysis to focus on changes in capital given potential changes in interest rates. This measure also allows BB&T to analyze interest rate risk that falls outside the analysis window contained in the Simulation model. The EVE model is a discounted cash flow of the entire portfolio of BB&T’s assets, liabilities, and derivatives instruments. The difference in the present value of assets minus the present value of liabilities is defined as the economic value of BB&T’s equity.  

The asset/liability management process requires a number of key assumptions. Management determines the most likely outlook for the economy and interest rates by analyzing external factors, including published economic projections and data, the effects of likely monetary and fiscal policies, as well as any enacted or prospective regulatory changes. BB&T’s current and prospective liquidity position, current balance sheet volumes and projected growth, accessibility of funds for short-term needs and capital maintenance are also considered. This data is combined with various interest rate scenarios to provide management with the information necessary to analyze interest sensitivity and to aid in the development of strategies to reach performance goals.  

The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on net interest income as projected for the next twelve months assuming a gradual change in interest rates as described below. Key assumptions in the preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mortgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, deposit sensitivity, customer preferences and capital plans. The resulting change in interest sensitive income reflects the level of sensitivity that interest sensitive income has in relation to changing interest rates.  

Table 30  

Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee has established parameters measuring interest sensitivity that prescribe a maximum negative impact on net interest income of 2% for the next 12 months for a linear change of 100 basis points over four months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining eight month period, and a maximum negative impact of 4% for a linear change of 200 basis points over eight months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining four month period. In the event that the results of the Simulation model fall outside the established parameters, management will make recommendations to the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee on the most appropriate response given the current economic forecast. Management currently only modeled a negative 25 basis point decline because larger declines would have resulted in a Federal funds rate of less than zero.  

77  

Table of Contents 

The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on EVE. Key assumptions in the preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mortgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, and deposit sensitivity. The resulting change in the economic value of equity reflects the level of sensitivity that EVE has in relation to changing interest rates.  

Table 31  

Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”) Simulation Analysis  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Market Risk from Trading Activities  

BB&T also manages market risk from trading activities which consists of acting as a financial intermediary to provide its customers access to derivatives, foreign exchange and securities markets. Trading market risk is managed through the use of statistical and non-statistical risk measures and limits, with overall established limits. BB&T utilizes a historical value-at-risk (“VaR”) methodology to measure and aggregate risks across its covered trading lines of business. This methodology uses one year of historical data to estimate economic outcomes for a one-day time horizon at a 99% confidence level.  

The average VaR for the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $1 million. The maximum daily VaR was approximately $3 million, and the low daily VaR was less than $1 million during the same period.  

Liquidity  

Liquidity represents BB&T’s continuing ability to meet funding needs, primarily deposit withdrawals, timely repayment of borrowings and other liabilities, and funding of loan commitments. In addition to the level of liquid assets, such as cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale, many other factors affect the ability to meet liquidity needs, including access to a variety of funding sources, maintaining borrowing capacity in national money markets, growing core deposits, the repayment of loans and the capability to securitize or package loans for sale.  

The purpose of the Parent Company is to serve as the capital financing vehicle for the operating subsidiaries. The assets of the Parent Company consist primarily of cash on deposit with Branch Bank, equity investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, accounts receivable from subsidiaries, and other miscellaneous assets. The principal obligations of the Parent Company are principal and interest on master notes, long-term debt, and redeemable capital securities. The main sources of funds for the Parent Company are dividends and management fees from subsidiaries, repayments of advances to subsidiaries, and proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and master notes. The primary uses of funds by the Parent Company are for investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, dividend payments to shareholders, retirement of common stock and interest and principal payments due on long-term debt and master notes.  

The primary source of funds used for Parent Company cash requirements was dividends received from subsidiaries, which totaled $903 million during 2011. In addition, the Parent Company issued $2.0 billion of senior notes during 2011 and repaid $861 million of maturing long-term debt. Funds raised through master note agreements with commercial clients are placed in a note receivable at Branch Bank primarily for its use in meeting short-term funding needs and, to a lesser extent, to support the short-term temporary cash needs of the Parent Company. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, master note balances totaled $296 million and $806 million, respectively.  

The Parent Company had eight issues of senior notes outstanding totaling $5.0 billion and four issues of subordinated notes outstanding totaling $2.4 billion at December 31, 2011. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, the Parent Company had $3.3 billion of junior subordinated debentures outstanding to unconsolidated trusts. Management has announced  

78  

Table of Contents 

 intentions to retire the junior subordinated debentures during 2012 and to complete the process by the end of 2013. Refer to Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information with respect to these senior notes, subordinated notes and junior subordinated debentures.  

Branch Bank has several major sources of funding to meet its liquidity requirements, including access to capital markets through issuance of senior or subordinated bank notes and institutional certificates of deposit, access to the FHLB system, dealer repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements with commercial clients, access to the overnight and term Federal funds markets, use of a Cayman branch facility, access to retail brokered certificates of deposit and a borrower in custody program with the Federal Reserve Bank for the discount window. As of December 31, 2011, BB&T has approximately $43 billion of secured borrowing capacity, which represents approximately 436% of one year wholesale funding maturities.  

BB&T Corporation’s and Branch Bank’s ability to raise funding at competitive prices is affected by the rating agencies’ views of BB&T Corporation’s and Branch Bank’s credit quality, liquidity, capital and earnings. Management meets with the rating agencies on a routine basis to discuss the current outlook for BB&T Corporation and Branch Bank. The ratings for BB&T Corporation and Branch Bank by the four major rating agencies are detailed in the table below.  

Table 32  

Credit Ratings of BB&T Corporation and Branch Bank  

December 31, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T, Branch Bank and BB&T FSB have Contingency Funding Plans (“CFPs”) designed to ensure that liquidity sources are sufficient to meet their ongoing obligations and commitments, particularly in the event of a liquidity contraction. The CFPs are designed to examine and quantify the organization’s liquidity under various “stress” scenarios. Additionally, the CFPs provide a framework for management and other critical personnel to follow in the event of a liquidity contraction or in anticipation of such an event. The CFPs address authority for activation and decision making, liquidity options and the responsibilities of key departments in the event of a liquidity contraction.  

Management believes current sources of liquidity are adequate to meet BB&T’s current requirements and plans for continued growth. See Note 5 “Premises and Equipment,” Note 10 “Long-Term Debt” and Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding outstanding balances of sources of liquidity and contractual commitments and obligations.  

79  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingent Liabilities, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, And Related Party Transactions  

The following table presents, as of December 31, 2011, BB&T’s significant fixed and determinable contractual obligations by payment date. The payment amounts represent those amounts contractually due to the recipient. The table excludes liabilities recorded where management cannot reasonably estimate the timing of any payments that may be required in connection with these liabilities. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

Table 33  

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments  

December 31, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Maturities are based on estimated payment dates.  

BB&T’s significant commitments include certain investments in affordable housing and historic building rehabilitation projects throughout its market area. BB&T enters into such arrangements as a means of supporting local communities and recognizes tax credits relating to these investments. At December 31, 2011, BB&T’s investments in such projects totaled $1.2 billion, which includes outstanding commitments of $394 million. BB&T typically acts as a limited partner in these investments and does not exert control over the operating or financial policies of the partnerships. Branch Bank typically provides financing during the construction and development of the properties; however, permanent financing is generally obtained from independent third parties upon completion of a project. As of December 31, 2011, BB&T had $178 million in loan commitments outstanding related to these projects, of which $76 million had been funded. BB&T’s risk exposure relating to such commitments is generally limited to the amount of investments and loan commitments made. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion of these investments in limited partnerships.  

In addition, BB&T enters into derivative contracts to manage various financial risks. A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate. Derivative contracts are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with the fair value representing the net present value of expected future cash receipts or payments based on market interest rates as of the balance sheet date. Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as notional amounts, which only provide the basis for calculating payments between counterparties and are not a measure of financial risk. Therefore, the derivative liabilities recorded on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 do not represent the amounts that may ultimately be paid under these contracts. Further discussion of derivative instruments is included in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 19 “Derivative Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

In the ordinary course of business, BB&T indemnifies its officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities arising from litigation. BB&T also issues standard representation and warranties in underwriting agreements, merger and acquisition agreements, loan sales, brokerage activities and other similar arrangements. Counterparties in many of these indemnifications provide similar indemnifications to BB&T. Although these agreements often do not specify limitations, BB&T does not believe that any payments related to these guarantees would materially change the financial condition or results of operations of BB&T.  

80  

Table of Contents 

BB&T holds public funds in certain states that do not require 100% collateralization on public fund bank deposits. In these states, should the failure of another public fund depository institution result in a loss for the public entity, the resulting shortfall would have to be absorbed on a pro-rata basis by the remaining financial institutions holding public funds in that state.  

BB&T has investments and future funding commitments to certain venture capital funds. As of December 31, 2011, BB&T had investments of $261 million related to these ventures and future funding commitments of $129 million. BB&T’s risk exposure relating to such commitments is generally limited to the amount of investments and future funding commitments made.  

Merger and acquisition agreements of businesses other than financial institutions occasionally include additional incentives to the acquired entities to offset the loss of future cash flows previously received through ownership positions. Typically, these incentives are based on the acquired entity’s contribution to BB&T’s earnings compared to agreed-upon amounts. When offered, these incentives are typically issued for terms of three to five years. As certain provisions of these agreements do not specify dollar limitations, it is not possible to quantify the maximum exposure resulting from these agreements. However, based on recent payouts and current projections, any payments made in relation to these agreements are not expected to be material to BB&T’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  

As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta (“FHLB”), BB&T is required to maintain a minimum investment in capital stock. The board of directors of the FHLB can increase the minimum investment requirements in the event it has concluded that additional capital is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital requirements. Any increase in the minimum investment requirements outside of specified ranges requires the approval of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Because the extent of any obligation to increase BB&T’s investment in the FHLB depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event, potential future payments to the FHLB are not determinable.  

In the normal course of business, BB&T is also a party to financial instruments to meet the financing needs of clients and to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. Such financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and certain contractual agreements, including standby letters of credit and financial guarantee arrangements. Further discussion of these commitments is included in Note 15 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

BB&T’s significant commitments and obligations are summarized in the accompanying table. Not all of the commitments presented in the table will be used, thus the actual cash requirements are likely to be significantly less than the amounts reported.  

Table 34  

Summary of Significant Commitments  

December 31, 2011  

(Dollars in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Other commitments include unfunded business loan commitments, unfunded overdraft protection on demand deposit accounts and other unfunded commitments to lend.  

Related Party Transactions  

The Corporation may extend credit to certain officers and directors in the ordinary course of business. These loans are made under substantially the same terms as comparable third-party lending arrangements and are in compliance with applicable banking regulations.  

81  

Table of Contents 

Capital  

The maintenance of appropriate levels of capital is a management priority and is monitored on a regular basis. BB&T’s principal goals related to the maintenance of capital are to provide adequate capital to support BB&T’s comprehensive risk profile, preserve a sufficient capital base from which to support future growth, provide a competitive return to shareholders, comply with regulatory standards and achieve optimal credit ratings for BB&T and its subsidiaries.  

Management regularly monitors the capital position of BB&T on a consolidated basis. In this regard, management’s overriding policy is to maintain capital at levels that will result in BB&T being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes and to maintain sufficient capital relative to the Corporation’s level of risk. Secondarily, it is management’s intent to maintain consolidated capital levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are generally comparable with BB&T’s peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. Management monitors and intends to maintain the following minimum capital ratios:  

Table 35  

BB&T’s Internal Capital Guidelines  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Payments of cash dividends to BB&T’s shareholders and repurchases of common shares are the methods used to manage any excess capital generated. In addition, management closely monitors the Parent Company’s double leverage ratio (investments in subsidiaries as a percentage of shareholders’ equity) with the intention of maintaining the ratio below 125.0%. The active management of the subsidiaries’ equity capital, as described above, is the process used to manage this important driver of Parent Company liquidity and is a key element in the management of BB&T’s capital position.  

The capital of BB&T’s subsidiaries is regularly monitored to determine if the levels that management believes are the most beneficial and efficient for their operations are maintained. Management intends to maintain capital at Branch Bank and BB&T FSB at levels that will result in these subsidiaries being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Secondarily, it is management’s intent to maintain Branch Bank’s capital at levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are generally comparable with peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. If the capital levels of Branch Bank increase above these guidelines, excess capital may be transferred to the Parent Company, subject to regulatory and other operating considerations, in the form of special dividend payments.  

While nonrecurring events or management decisions may result in the Corporation temporarily falling below its minimum guidelines for one or more of these ratios, it is management’s intent through capital planning to return to these targeted minimums within a reasonable period of time. Such temporary decreases below these minimums are not considered an infringement of BB&T’s overall capital policy provided the Corporation and Branch Bank remain “well-capitalized.”  

BB&T’s Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.7% at December 31, 2011 compared to 9.1% at the end of 2010. The improvement in this ratio was due to strong capital generation. In addition, asset growth during 2011 was in lower risk-weighted securities. As of December 31, 2011, BB&T’s Tier 1 common equity ratio under the proposed Basel III capital standards was estimated to be 8.8%.  

BB&T regularly performs stress testing on its capital levels and is required to periodically submit the company’s capital plans to the banking regulators. Management’s capital deployment plan in order of preference is to focus on organic growth, dividends, strategic opportunities and share repurchases.  

As previously mentioned, management announced its intentions to retire its trust preferred securities during 2012 and complete the process by the end of 2013.  

BB&T’s regulatory and tangible capital ratios for December 31, 2011 and 2010 are set forth in Table 36. In September 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision proposed new regulatory capital requirements (commonly referred to as “Basel III”) in an effort to strengthen the financial services industry. It is anticipated that U.S. regulators will adopt new  

82  

Table of Contents 

 regulatory capital requirements similar to those defined in Basel III. The primary impacts to BB&T of the proposed measure are the deduction of net pension assets from Tier 1 capital and the elimination of the other comprehensive income adjustments for available-for-sale securities and pension and postretirement obligations. In addition, the proposed requirements result in adjustments to Tier 1 common equity and risk-weighted assets for mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets and unconsolidated investments. Refer to Table 37 for a reconciliation of how BB&T calculates the Tier 1 common equity ratio under the proposed Basel III capital guidelines.  

Table 36  

Capital Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity ratios are non-GAAP measures. BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity definition used in the SCAP assessment to calculate these ratios. BB&T’s management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may find them useful in their analysis of the Corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies.  

 (2) Risk-weighted assets are determined based on regulatory capital requirements.  

83  

Table of Contents 

Table 37  

Estimated Basel III Capital Ratios (1)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) The Basel III calculations are non-GAAP measures and reflect adjustments for the related elements as proposed by regulatory authorities, which are subject to change. BB&T management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may find them useful in their analysis of the Corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies.  

Fourth Quarter Results  

Consolidated net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2011 of $391 million was up 88.0% compared to $208 million earned during the same period in 2010. On a diluted per common share basis, earnings for the fourth quarter of 2011 were $0.55, up 83.3% compared to $0.30 for the same period in 2010. BB&T’s results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2011 produced an annualized return on average assets of 0.93% and an annualized return on average common shareholders’ equity of 8.76% compared to prior year ratios of 0.54% and 4.88%, respectively.  

Total revenues were $2.4 billion for the fourth quarter of 2011, up $78 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. The increase in total revenues was primarily due to $120 million of higher net interest income, primarily driven by lower borrowing and deposit costs. The net interest margin was 4.02%, down 2 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. Noninterest income decreased $42 million. The decrease in noninterest income was largely attributable to a decrease of $46 million for FDIC loss share income due to the lower offset related to the provision for covered loans and the impact of cash flow reassessments. In addition, checkcard fees decreased $31 million primarily due to the implementation of the Durbin amendment, and investment banking and brokerage fees decreased $22 million due to a reduction in activity. These decreases were partially offset by $51 million of fewer losses and writedowns on the commercial loans held for sale in connection with management’s nonperforming loan disposition strategy.  

Noninterest expenses were $1.6 billion for the fourth quarter of 2011, up $197 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. The increase in noninterest expenses was primarily due to a $184 million increase in foreclosed property expenses as management accelerated its strategy to reduce the inventory of foreclosed property.  

The provision for credit losses, excluding covered loans, for the fourth quarter of 2011 declined $320 million, or 58.9%, compared to the fourth quarter of 2010, as improving credit quality resulted in lower provision expense. The provision for covered loans decreased $51 million, which was offset by a corresponding $41 million decrease in FDIC loss share income. Net charge-offs, excluding covered loans, for the fourth quarter of 2011 were $158 million less than the fourth quarter of 2010. The level of nonperforming assets, loan delinquencies and the outlook for future credit losses improved significantly during 2011.  

An $84 million provision for income taxes was recorded for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $15 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. This resulted in an effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2011 of 17.4% compared to 6.5% for the prior year’s fourth quarter. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to higher levels of pre-tax earnings in 2011 compared to 2010.  

84  

Table of Contents 

The accompanying table, “Quarterly Financial Summary—Unaudited,” presents condensed information relating to quarterly periods in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.  

Table 38  

Quarterly Financial Summary—Unaudited  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include loans held for sale.  

85  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Management of BB&T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the Exchange Act). The Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. BB&T’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records, that in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the Corporation’s assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the Corporation are being made only in accordance with the authorizations of BB&T’s management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Corporation’s assets that could have a material impact on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.  

Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Corporation conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, commonly referred to as the “COSO” criteria. Based on this evaluation under the “COSO” criteria, management concluded that the internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, the management of the Corporation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.  

There was no change in the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2011 that has materially affected or is likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting.  

The effectiveness of the internal control structure over financial reporting, as of December 31, 2011, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their accompanying report, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.  

86  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA