PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

General Information  

The Bancorp, an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is a bank holding company as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), and is registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”). The Bancorp’s principal office is located in Cincinnati, Ohio.  

The Bancorp’s subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial products and services to the retail, commercial, financial, governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide variety of checking, savings and money market accounts, and credit products such as credit cards, installment loans, mortgage loans and leases. Fifth Third Bank has deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) through the Deposit Insurance Fund. Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as an attachment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of December 31, 2013.  

The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Additional information regarding the Bancorp’s businesses is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Competition  

The Bancorp competes for deposits, loans and other banking services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to the challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, the Bancorp’s competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and insurance companies. These competitors, with focused products targeted at highly profitable customer segments, compete across geographic boundaries and provide customers increasing access to meaningful alternatives to banking services in nearly all significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology, product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. These competitive trends are likely to continue.  

Acquisitions  

The Bancorp’s strategy for growth includes strengthening its presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and broadening its product offerings while taking into account the integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities in connection with possible transactions. As a result, discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur. These typically involve the payment of a premium over book value and current market price, and therefore, some dilution of book value and net income per share may occur with any future transactions.  

Regulation and Supervision  

In addition to the generally applicable state and federal laws governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions and their parent companies. Virtually all aspects of the business of the 

 174 Fifth Third Bancorp 

Table of Contents 

 Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to specific requirements or restrictions and general regulatory oversight. The principal objectives of state and federal banking laws and regulations and the supervision, regulation and examination of banks and their parent companies (such as the Bancorp) by bank regulatory agencies are the maintenance of the safety and soundness of financial institutions, maintenance of the federal deposit insurance system and the protection of consumers or classes of consumers, rather than the specific protection of shareholders of a bank or the parent company of a bank. To the extent the following material describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statute or regulation.  

Regulators  

The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the FRB, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions (the “Division”) and additionally by certain other functional regulators and self-regulatory organizations. The Bancorp is also subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of its status as a public company and due to the nature of some of its businesses. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to regulation by the FDIC, which insures the bank’s deposits as permitted by law.  

The federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable to banks and to some extent bank holding companies regulate, among other matters, the scope of their business, their activities, their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual and related borrowers and the nature, amount of and collateral for certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged on loans. Various federal and state consumer laws and regulations also affect the services provided to consumers.  

The Bancorp and/or its subsidiary are required to file various reports with, and is subject to examination by regulators, including the FRB and the Division. The FRB, Division and the CFPB have the authority to issue orders to bank holding companies and/or banks to cease and desist from certain banking practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of agreements with, the FRB, Division and CFPB. Certain of the Bancorp’s and/or its banking subsidiary regulators are also empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or individuals in certain situations, such as when there is a violation of a law or regulation. Applicable state and federal laws also grant certain regulators the authority to impose additional requirements and restrictions on the activities of the Bancorp and or its banking subsidiary and, in some situations, the imposition of such additional requirements and restrictions will not be publicly available information.  

Acquisitions  

The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB for a bank holding company to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank or to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any bank, bank holding company or savings association, or to increase any such non-majority ownership or control of any bank, bank holding company or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with any bank holding company.  

The BHCA prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of a company that is not a bank or a bank holding company and from engaging directly or 

 indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its banking subsidiaries, except that it may engage in and may own shares of companies engaged in certain activities the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be proper incident thereto.  

Financial Holding Companies  

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”) permits a qualifying bank holding company to become a financial holding company (“FHC”) and thereby to engage directly or indirectly in a broader range of activities than those permitted for a bank holding company under the BHCA. Permitted activities for a FHC include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation with the Treasury Department, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or are declared by the FRB unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. In addition, a FHC is allowed to conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the FRB. A bank holding company may elect to become a FHC if each of its banking subsidiaries is well capitalized, is well managed and has at least a “Satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) also extended the well capitalized and well managed requirement to the bank holding company. In 2000, the Bancorp elected and qualified for FHC status under the GLBA. To maintain FHC status, a holding company must continue to meet certain requirements. The failure to meet such requirements could result in restrictions on the activities of the FHC or loss of FHC status. If restrictions are imposed on the activities of an FHC, such information may not necessarily be available to the public.  

Dividends  

The Bancorp depends in part upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect banking subsidiary, to fund its activities, including the payment of dividends. The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to various federal and state restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. The FRB has authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for bank holding companies to pay dividends unless a bank holding company’s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The ability to pay dividends may be further limited by provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and implanting regulations (see the “Regulatory Reform” section).   

Source of Strength  

Under long-standing FRB policy and now as codified in the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its banking subsidiaries and to commit resources to their support. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide it.  

FDIC Assessments  

As contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act the FDIC has revised the framework by which insured depository institutions with more 

 175 Fifth Third Bancorp 

Table of Contents 

 than $10 billion in assets (“large IDIs”) are assessed for purposes of payments to the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). The final rule implementing revisions to the assessment system took effect for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011.  

Prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, a large IDI’s DIF premiums principally were based on the size of an IDI’s domestic deposit base. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the assessment base from a large IDI’s domestic deposit base to its total assets less tangible equity. In addition to potentially greatly increasing the size of a large IDI’s assessment base, the expansion of the assessment base affords the FDIC much greater flexibility to vary its assessment system based upon the different asset classes that large IDIs normally hold on their balance sheets.  

To implement this provision, the FDIC created an assessment scheme vastly different from the deposit-based system. Under the new system, large IDIs are assessed under a complex “scorecard” methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs.  

Transactions with Affiliates  

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restrict transactions between a bank and its affiliates (as defined in Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act), including a parent bank holding company. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to certain restrictions, including but not limited to restrictions on loans to its affiliates, on investments in the stock or securities thereof, on the taking of such stock or securities as collateral for loans to any borrower, and on the issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on their behalf. Among other things, these restrictions limit the amount of such transactions, require collateral in prescribed amounts for extensions of credit, prohibit the purchase of low quality assets and require that the terms of such transactions be substantially equivalent to terms of comparable transactions with non-affiliates. Generally, the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is limited in its extension of credit to any affiliate to 10% of the banking subsidiary’s capital stock and surplus and its extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of the banking subsidiary’s capital stock and surplus.  

Community Reinvestment Act  

The CRA generally requires insured depository institutions to identify the communities they serve and to make loans and investments and provide services that meet the credit needs of those communities. Furthermore, the CRA requires the FRB to evaluate the performance of the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary in helping to meet the credit needs of its communities. As a part of the CRA program, the banking subsidiary is subject to periodic examinations by the FRB, and must maintain comprehensive records of their CRA activities for this purpose. During these examinations, the FRB rates such institutions’ compliance with the CRA as “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” Failure of an institution to receive at least a “Satisfactory” rating could inhibit such institution or its holding company from undertaking certain activities, including engaging in activities permitted as a financial holding company under the GLBA and acquiring other financial institutions. The FRB must take into account the record of performance of banks in meeting the credit needs of the entire community served, including low- and moderate- income neighborhoods. Fifth Third Bank received a “Satisfactory” CRA rating in its most recent CRA examination. 

Capital  

The FRB has established capital guidelines for bank holding companies and FHCs. The FRB, the Division and the FDIC have also issued regulations establishing capital requirements for banks. Failure to meet capital requirements could subject the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary to a variety of restrictions and enforcement actions. In addition, as discussed previously, the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary must remain well capitalized and well managed for the Bancorp to retain its status as a FHC. See the “Regulatory Reform” section for additional information on capital requirements impacting the Bancorp.  

Privacy  

The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted final guidelines (the “Guidelines) for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. The Guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its Board of Directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bancorp has adopted a customer information security program that has been approved by the Bancorp’s Board of Directors.  

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the banking subsidiary’s policies and procedures. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary has implemented a privacy policy.  

Anti-Money Laundering  

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”), designed to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial system, has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act, as implemented by various federal regulatory agencies, requires financial institutions, including the Bancorp and its subsidiaries, to implement new policies and procedures or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, among other matters, anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act and its underlying regulations also permit information sharing for counter-terrorist purposes between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, subject to certain conditions, and require the FRB (and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering activities when considering applications filed under Section 3 of the BHCA or the Bank Merger Act. The Bancorp’s Board has approved policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the Patriot Act. 

 176 Fifth Third Bancorp 

Table of Contents 

Exempt Brokerage Activities  

The GLBA amended the federal securities laws to eliminate the blanket exceptions that banks traditionally have had from the definition of “broker” and “dealer.” The GLBA also required that there be certain transactional activities that would not be “brokerage” activities, which banks could effect without having to register as a broker. In September 2007, the FRB and SEC approved Regulation R to govern bank securities activities. Various exemptions permit banks to conduct activities that would otherwise constitute brokerage activities under the securities laws. Those exemptions include conducting brokerage activities related to trust, fiduciary and similar services, certain services and also conducting a de minimis number of riskless principal transactions, certain asset-backed transactions and certain securities lending transactions. The Bancorp only conducts non-exempt brokerage activities through its affiliated registered broker-dealer.  

Regulatory Reform  

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which is aimed, in part, at accountability and transparency in the financial system and includes numerous provisions that apply to and/or could impact the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary. The Dodd-Frank Act implements changes that, among other things, affect the oversight and supervision of financial institutions, provide for a new resolution procedure for large financial companies, create a new agency responsible for implementing and enforcing compliance with consumer financial laws, introduce more stringent regulatory capital requirements, effect significant changes in the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives, reform the regulation of credit rating agencies, implement changes to corporate governance and executive compensation practices, incorporate requirements on proprietary trading and investing in certain funds by financial institutions (known as the “Volcker Rule”), require registration of advisers to certain private funds, and effect significant changes in the securitization market. In order to fully implement many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, various government agencies, in particular banking and other financial services agencies are required to promulgate regulations. Set forth below is a discussion of some of the major sections the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations that have or could have a substantial impact on the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary. Due to the volume of regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act, not all proposed or final regulations that may have an impact on the Bancorp or its banking subsidiary are necessarily discussed.  

Financial Stability Oversight Council  

The Dodd-Frank Act created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), which is chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury and composed of expertise from various financial services regulators. The FSOC has responsibility for identifying risks and responding to emerging threats to financial stability. On March 15, 2012, the Department of Treasury issued an interim final rule to establish an assessment schedule for the collection of fees from bank holding companies and foreign banks with at least $50 billion in assets to cover the expenses of the Office of Financial Research and FSOC. The fees would also cover certain expenses incurred by the FDIC. The Bancorp paid approximately $1 million for the initial assessment period which commenced July 21, 2012 and ended March 31, 2013 and was not assessed a fee in the first semiannual assessment which ended September 30, 2013. 

On August 16, 2013, the FRB also adopted a final rule to implement an assessment provision under the Dodd-Frank Act equal to the expense and the FRB estimates are necessary or appropriate to supervise and regulate bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in assets. The Bancorp paid approximately $3 million for the first annual assessment under the FRB’s rule.  

Executive Compensation  

The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a say on pay for shareholders of all public companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, each company must give its shareholders the opportunity to vote on the compensation of its executives at least once every three years. The Dodd-Frank Act also adds disclosure and voting requirements for golden parachute compensation that is payable to named executive officers in connection with sale transactions. The SEC adopted rules finalizing these say on pay provisions in January 2011.  

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in June 2012, the SEC adopted a final rule directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing classes of equity securities if a company’s compensation committee members are not independent. The rule also provides that a company’s compensation committee may only select a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor after taking into consideration factors to be identified by the SEC that affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor.  

The SEC is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to issue rules obligating companies to disclose in proxy materials for annual meetings of shareholders information that shows the relationship between executive compensation actually paid to their named executive officers and their financial performance, taking into account any change in the value of the shares of a company’s stock and dividends or distributions. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the SEC to propose rules requiring companies to disclose the ratio of the compensation of its chief executive officer to the median compensation of its employees. The SEC proposed rules implementing the pay ratio provisions in September 2013.  

The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the SEC must issue rules directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing any security of a company unless the company develops and implements a policy providing for disclosure of the policy of the company on incentive-based compensation that is based on financial information required to be reported under the securities laws and that, in the event the company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the company with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the company will recover from any current or former executive officer of the company who received incentive-based compensation during the three-year period preceding the date on which the company is required to prepare the restatement based on the erroneous data, any exceptional compensation above what would have been paid under the restatement.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to adopt a rule to require that each company disclose in the proxy materials for its annual meetings whether an employee or board member is permitted to purchase financial instruments designed to hedge or offset decreases in the market value of equity securities granted as compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board member.  

Corporate Governance  

The Dodd-Frank Act clarifies that the SEC may, but is not required to promulgate rules that would require that a company’s proxy materials include a nominee for the board of directors 

 177 Fifth Third Bancorp 

Table of Contents 

 submitted by a shareholder. Although the SEC promulgated rules to accomplish this, these rules were invalidated by a federal appeals court decision. The SEC has said that they will not challenge the ruling, but has not ruled out the possibility that new rules could be proposed.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires stock exchanges to have rules prohibiting their members from voting securities that they do not beneficially own (unless they have received voting instructions from the beneficial owner) with respect to the election of a member of the board of directors (other than an uncontested election of directors of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940), executive compensation or any other significant matter, as determined by the SEC by rule.  

Credit Ratings  

The Dodd-Frank Act includes a number of provisions that are targeted at improving the reliability of credit ratings. The SEC has been charged with adopting various rules in this regard.  

Consumer Issues  

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new bureau, the CFPB, which has the authority to implement regulations pursuant to numerous consumer protection laws and has supervisory authority, including the power to conduct examination and take enforcement actions, with respect to depository institutions with more than $10 billion in consolidated assets. The CFPB also has authority, with respect to consumer financial services to, among other things, restrict unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices, enforce laws that prohibit discrimination and unfair treatment and to require certain consumer disclosures.  

Debit Card Interchange Fees  

The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a set of new rules requiring that interchange transaction fees for electric debit transactions be “reasonable” and proportional to certain costs associated with processing the transactions. The FRB was given authority to, among other things, establish standards for assessing whether interchange fees are reasonable and proportional. In June 2011, the FRB issued a final rule establishing certain standards and prohibitions pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, including establishing standards for debit card interchange fees and allowing for an upward adjustment if the issuer develops and implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent fraud. The provisions regarding debit card interchange fees and the fraud adjustment became effective October 1, 2011. The rules impose requirements on the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary and may negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. On July 31, 2013 a United States District Court found that portions of the final interchange rules were contrary to the language of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Court held that, in adopting the final rules, the FRB violated the Durbin Amendment’s provisions concerning which costs are allowed to be taken into account for purposes of setting fees that are reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by the issuer and therefore the rule’s maximum permissible fees were too high. In addition, the Court held that the final rules’ network non-exclusivity provisions concerning unaffiliated payment networks for debit cards also violated the Durbin Amendment. The Court vacated the final rule, but stayed its ruling to provide the FRB an opportunity to replace the invalidated portions. The FRB has appealed this decision. If this decision is ultimately upheld and/or the FRB re-issues rules for purposes of implementing the Durbin Amendment in a manner consistent with this decision, the amount of debit card 

 interchange fees the Bancorp would be permitted to charge likely would be reduced.  

FDIC Matters and Resolution Planning  

Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act creates an orderly liquidation process that the FDIC can employ for failing systemically important financial companies. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act also codifies many of the temporary changes that had already been implemented, such as permanently increasing the amount of deposit insurance to $250,000.  

In January 2012, the FDIC issued a final rule that requires an insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in total assets to submit periodic contingency plans to the FDIC for resolution in the event of the institution’s failure. The rule became effective in January 2012, however, submission of plans will be staggered over a period of time. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to this rule and submitted its first resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2013.  

In October 2011, the FRB and FDIC issued a final rule implementing the resolution planning requirements of Section165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule requires bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more and nonbank financial firms designated by FSOC for supervision by the FRB to annually submit resolution plans to the FDIC and FRB. Each plan shall describe the company’s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy during times of financial distress. Under the final rule, companies will submit their initial resolution plans on a staggered basis. The Bancorp submitted its first resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2013.  

Proprietary Trading and Investing in Certain Funds  

The Dodd-Frank Act sets forth new restrictions on banking organizations’ ability to engage in proprietary trading and sponsors of or invest in private equity and hedge funds (the “Volcker Rule”). The final regulations implementing the Volcker Rule (“Final Rules”) were adopted on December 10, 2013. The Volcker Rule generally prohibits any banking entity from (i) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for its own account and (ii) sponsoring or acquiring any ownership interest in a private equity or hedge fund. The Volcker Rule and Final Rules contain a number of exceptions. The Volcker Rule permits transactions in the securities of the U.S. government and its agencies, certain government-sponsored enterprises and states and their political subdivisions, as well as certain investments in small business investment companies. Transactions on behalf of customers and in connection with certain underwriting and market making activities, as well as risk-mitigating hedging activities and certain foreign banking activities are also permitted. The Final Rules exclude certain funds from the prohibition on fund ownership and sponsorship including wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, and acquisitions vehicles, as well as SEC registered investment companies. De minimis ownership of private equity or hedge funds is also permitted under the Final Rules. In addition to the general prohibition on sponsorship and investment, the Volcker rule contains additional requirements applicable to any private equity or hedge fund that is sponsored by the banking entity or for which it serves as investment manager or investment advisor. The Bancorp will be required under the Final Rules to demonstrate that it has a Volcker Rule compliance program. In connection with the issuance of the Final Rules, the Federal Reserve extended the conformance period generally until July 21, 2015. The Final Rules become effective April 2014, but because 

 178 Fifth Third Bancorp 

Table of Contents 

 of the FRB general extension, the Bancorp will have until July 21, 2015 to fully conform its activities and investments to the Final Rules. The FRB may extend the conformance period for two additional one-year periods. Further, with respect to covered funds that are “illiquid funds”, the FRB has the authority to grant up to five more years for the Bancorp to conform to the final Volcker Rule with respect to such illiquid funds. The Bancorp does not know whether it will be granted any extension of time to conform its activities to the final Volcker Rule.  

Derivatives  

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act includes measures to broaden the scope of derivative instruments subject to regulation by requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives, imposing new capital and margin requirements for certain market participants and imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter derivatives. Certain affiliates of the Bancorp that engage in significant swaps activities may be required to register with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the SEC as a swap dealer, security-based swap dealer, major swap participant or major security-based swap participant. As with the Volcker Rule, the Bancorp will be required to demonstrate that it has a satisfactory compliance program to monitor the activities of any such entity registered under the new regulations. The ultimate impact of these derivatives regulations, and the time it will take to comply, continues to remain uncertain. The final regulations will impose additional operational and compliance costs on us and may require us to restructure certain businesses and negatively impact our revenues and results of operations.  

Interstate Bank Branching  

The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions permitting national and insured state banks to engage in de novo interstate branching if, under the laws of the state where the new branch is to be established, a state bank chartered in that state would be permitted to establish a branch.  

Systemically Significant Companies and Capital  

Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new regulatory regime for large bank holding companies. U.S. bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including Fifth Third, are subject to enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements under Title I. Title I of Dodd-Frank establishes a broad framework for identifying, applying heightened supervision and regulation to, and (as necessary) limiting the size and activities of systemically significant financial companies.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to impose enhanced capital and risk-management standards on these firms and mandates the FRB to conduct annual stress tests on all bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in assets to determine whether they have the capital needed to absorb losses in baseline, adverse, and severely adverse economic conditions. In November 2011, the FRB adopted final rules requiring bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets to submit capital plans to the FRB on an annual basis. Under the final rules, the FRB annually will evaluate an institutions capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy, assessment processes and plans to make capital distributions such as dividend payments and stock repurchases.  

In November 2013, the FRB provided instructions on the 2014 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”). The 2014 CCAR required bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit a capital plan to the FRB by January 6, 2014. The mandatory elements of the 

 capital plan are an assessment of the expected use and sources of capital over the planning horizon, a description of all planned capital actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the Bancorp’s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the Bancorp’s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp’s capital policy.  

In December 2011, the FRB issued proposed rules to strengthen regulation and supervision of large bank holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial firms. The proposed rules would generally apply to all U.S. bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as the Bancorp, and any nonbank financial firms that may be designated by the FSOC as systemically important companies. The proposal, which is mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, includes a wide range of measures addressing such issues as capital, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, risk management and early remediation requirements.  

In December of 2010 and revised in June of 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) issued Basel III, a global regulatory framework, to enhance international capital standards. Basel III is designed to materially improve the quality of regulatory capital and introduces a new minimum common equity requirement. Basel III also raises the numerical minimum capital requirements and introduces capital conservation and countercyclical buffers to induce banking organizations to hold capital in excess of regulatory minimums. In addition, Basel III establishes an international leverage standard for internationally active banks.  

In June of 2012, U.S. banking regulators proposed enhancements to the regulatory capital requirements for U.S. banks, which implement aspects of Basel III, such as re-defining the regulatory capital elements and minimum capital ratios, introducing regulatory capital buffers above those minimums, revising the agencies’ rules for calculating risk-weighted assets and introducing a new Tier I common equity ratio. In July of 2013, U.S. banking regulators approved the final enhanced regulatory capital rules (“Final Capital Rules”), which included modifications to the proposed rules.  

The Final Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a new capital measure “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”), (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations. CET1 capital consists of common stock instruments that meet the eligibility criteria in the final rules, retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income and common equity Tier 1 minority interest.  

When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the Final Capital Rules require banking organizations to maintain (i) a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% upon full implementation), (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation), (iii) a minimum ratio of total capital (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital 

 179 Fifth Third Bancorp 

Table of Contents 

 conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation) and (iv) as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted average consolidated assets for large internationally active banks.  

The Final Capital Rules also provide for a “countercyclical capital buffer” designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer will face limitations on the payment of dividends, common stock repurchases and discretionary cash payments to executive officers based on the amount of the shortfall.  

The Final Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Under current capital standards, the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income items included in capital are excluded for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. Under the Final Capital Rules, Bancorp has a one-time election (the “Opt-out Election”) to filter certain accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) components, comparable to the treatment under the current general risk-based capital rule.  

The new capital rules are effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain of their components and other provisions. The Bancorp is in the process of evaluating the final rules and their potential impact. 

 180 Fifth Third Bancorp 

Table of Contents 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES