Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our investments are intended to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. Our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, money market funds, cash deposits, and marketable securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $1,787.6 million as of March 31, 2012 compared to $1,708.3 million as of March 31, 2011. The available-for-sale debt securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. We have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. The following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. We have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43
At March 31, 2012, $10.2 million of the fair value of our investment portfolio was invested in ARS. Historically, the carrying value of ARS approximated fair value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. If an auction fails for amounts we have invested, our investment will not be liquid. With the continuing liquidity issues experienced in the global credit and capital markets, our ARS have experienced multiple failed auctions. While we continue to earn interest on these investments

based on a pre-determined formula with spreads tied to particular interest rate indices, the estimated market value for a portion of these ARS no longer approximates the original purchase value.

The fair value of the failed ARS of $10.2 million has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. We evaluated the impairments in the value of these ARS, determining our intent to sell these securities prior to the recovery of our amortized cost basis resulted in the securities being other-than-temporarily impaired. In fiscal 2012, we recognized a $0.3 million gain on our ARS positions as a gain on redemption at par value of one ARS position offset impairment charges recognized during the year. We recognized impairment charges of $1.6 million on our ARS in fiscal 2011. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings.

Investments in Marketable Equity Investments

Our available-for-sale marketable equity investments at March 31, 2012 consist of shares of public company common stock, the value of which is determined by the closing price of such shares on the respective markets on which the shares are traded as of the balance sheet date. These investments are classified as marketable securities and accounted for under the provisions of ASC 320 Investments -- Debt and Equity Securities. The market value of these investments was approximately $5.3 million at March 31, 2012 compared to our cost basis of approximately $5.9 million. The value of our investments in these securities would be materially impacted if there was a significant change in the market price of the shares. A hypothetical 30% favorable or unfavorable change in the stock prices compared to the stock prices at March 31, 2012 would have affected the value of our investments in marketable equity securities by approximately $1.6 million. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our investments in these marketable securities.

Investments in Non-Marketable Equity Investments

We have non-marketable equity investments in several companies, including those that we acquired as a result of our acquisition of SST. These companies range from early-stage companies to more mature companies with established revenue and business models. These companies are dependent upon successful execution of their product and technology development objectives, acceptance of their products and technology in the markets they serve, and achievement of financial and operational efficiencies. If any of these private companies are unsuccessful in these and other related initiatives, or if there are factors beyond their control in the markets which they serve, their performance could be affected materially and adversely, resulting in a loss of some or all of their value, which would in turn require us to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment to fair value exists in such private equity or debt investments. If an other-than-temporary impairment of fair value exists, we will need to write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related impairment charge to our income statement. Our non-marketable equity investments, excluding those accounted for under the equity method, had a carrying amount of $5.6 million as of March 31, 2012. As of March 31, 2012, the carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments was $2.1 million.

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA