Item 1. BUSINESS  

General  

We are one of the largest technical professional services firms in the world and are headquartered in the United States. Our business focuses on providing a diverse range of technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. We provide four broad categories of services:  

   •    Project services (which include engineering, design, architectural, interiors, planning, and similar services);  

   •    Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which include a wide variety of services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology, and systems engineering and integration activities);  

   •    Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct-hire construction and construction management services); and  

   •    Operations and Maintenance services (which include services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance).  

We provide our services through offices and subsidiaries located primarily in North America, South America, Europe, the Middle East, India, Australia, Africa, and Asia.  

We focus our services on clients operating in the following industries and markets:  

   •    Oil and gas exploration, production, and refining;  

   •    Programs for various national governments, including aerospace, defense, and environmental programs;  

   •    Chemicals and polymers;  

   •    Mining and minerals;  

   •    Pharmaceuticals and biotechnology;  

   •    Infrastructure;  

   •    Buildings (which includes retail and commercial buildings as well as specialized buildings for clients operating in the fields of healthcare, education, and high technology; governmental complexes; and other specialized civic and mission critical buildings, installations, and laboratories);  

   •    Power;  

   •    Pulp and paper;  

   •    Technology and manufacturing; and,  

   •    Food and consumer products, among others.  

Page 3  

Table of Contents 

Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on January 8, 1987. On March 4, 1987, the corporation succeeded by merger to the business and assets of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., a California corporation that, in 1974, had succeeded to a business organized originally by our founder, Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs, in 1947. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to “Jacobs” or the “Registrant” are to Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and its predecessors, and references to the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” are to Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The common stock of Jacobs has been publicly held since 1970 and is currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol JEC.  

Business Strategy  

General  

There are four major components of our business strategy:  

   •    A passionate focus on safety and BeyondZero®;  

   •    A relationship-based approach to client interactions;  

   •    A strong focus on cost management; and  

   •    An organizational structure that facilitates efficient project management and execution, and promotes the sharing of resources.  

Acquisitions play an important role in our business strategy as they allow us to expand on existing client relationships as well as develop new ones. Acquisitions also allow us to grow our technical and project management capabilities, to penetrate new geographies, and to leverage our cost structure across geographic areas.  

Safety and BeyondZero®  

Most companies in our industry try to provide their employees with a safe and secure work environment. They create safety programs, require employee training, and make every effort to build awareness. We do this too, but we see safety differently.  

In 2007 we introduced BeyondZero®, a Company-wide initiative designed to educate and train our employees, and to instill in them a “culture of caring” that follows them outside of the workplace or jobsite. BeyondZero® inspires our organization to a deeper, richer, emotional commitment to the safety of our employees, their families, their clients, partners and friends, and beyond.  

Providing an injury-free and incident-free work environment is a critical element of the relationship we have with our employees and subcontractors. It is also a paramount issue in our dealings with our clients, and our safety program and BeyondZero® are fundamental elements of our overall approach to risk management. A safe work environment is critical to our long-term success and growth.  

We maintain a centralized Quality and Safety group to help ensure that the services we provide are delivered safely and in accordance with standard work processes. Unsafe job sites and office environments increase employee turnover, increase the cost of projects to our clients, expose us to types and levels of risk that are fundamentally unacceptable, and increase our own operating costs as well.  

With BeyondZero® we have developed a culture of caring where concern for our employees’ health and safety extends past office walls, beyond field sites, and past the perception that injured employees simply cost the Company time and money. It’s about safekeeping. Ultimately, safe job sites and office environments benefit our clients, promote employee morale, and enhance the long-term relationships we have with our clients, employees, and business partners.  

Relationship-Based Business Model  

Our relationship-based business model is central to our sustained growth and profitability. We aggressively pursue the development of long-term affiliations and alliances with our clients. By working as a partner with our clients on their capital programs, we increase our understanding of their overall business needs, as well as the unique technical requirements of their projects. This increased understanding gives us the opportunity to provide superior value to our clients. We market all of our services to clients in connection with their projects where the scope of work required is within our expertise. By integrating and bundling our services (i.e., providing design, engineering, and construction services on the same project), we can price contracts more competitively and enhance overall profitability while delivering additional value to our clients.  

Our relationship-based business model also helps us more fully understand the risks inherent in our projects, which in turn allows us to better manage those risks. Our approach also provides us with opportunities to market those services our clients are  

Page 4  

Table of Contents 

 expected to need in the pre-design phase, such as master planning, permitting, or project finance options, and also the post start-up and commissioning phases of a facility, such as operations and maintenance services. This model, however, does not preclude us from undertaking discrete projects. We will accept and perform discrete projects for our clients if we can negotiate acceptable pricing and other contract terms and conditions.  

Closely linked to our relationship-based business model is our multi-domestic geographic strategy for conducting business around the world. As part of this strategy, we act and operate as a local contractor in geographic areas of the world in which we do business. We believe it is important for us as a company to “be local” with respect to our network of offices and operations. Because our offices can generally sustain themselves with a base load of local work, we are able to support our multinational clients with their cross-border capital projects. Our core clients can depend on us for assistance with their engineering and construction needs when they move projects around the world. Our multi-domestic strategy also allows us to be competitive around the world to the extent we are awarded large projects and are able to perform meaningful portions of the project utilizing local resources rather than exporting the work to other offices within the group.  

Cost Management  

Our continual emphasis on managing costs is an important component of our business model. As the global economy expands and companies providing technical, professional, and construction services are required to compete against each other across geographic boundaries, the company that can provide its clients with cost-efficient solutions to their project needs has the advantage. Our attention to cost control throughout every level of our organization allows us to deliver superior technical, professional, and construction services safely, efficiently, and within the cost and time parameters our clients require.  

Organizational Structure and Resource Sharing  

Our organizational structure and integrated system for delivering services are key components of our business strategy. Our operating units generally use a matrix organizational structure whereby our project management functions are supported by the various technical engineering, design, and construction disciplines that are necessary to effectively execute long-term engineering and construction contracts. Crucial functions, such as project controls and procurement, are embedded within each of our major offices and serve operations by providing specialized services required by projects. In addition, we actively employ a boundaryless approach to the way we serve our clients. We do not maintain “profit centers” within the Company, nor do our operating groups compete against each other for contracts. Instead, our organizational structure encourages our operating groups to work cohesively, while simultaneously helping to reduce costs and promote an efficient delivery system for all of our services.  

The Role of Acquisitions in Our Business Strategy  

Our relationship-based business model is a significant driver of our acquisition strategy. When we review potential acquisition targets, we are conscious of the effect the acquisition may have on our client base. We favor acquisitions that allow us to expand or enhance the range of services we provide existing clients, and/or gain access to new geographic areas in which our clients either already operate or plan to expand. By expanding into new geographic areas and adding to our existing technical and project management capabilities, we strive to position ourselves as a preferred, single-source provider of technical, professional, and construction services to our major clients. The following is a brief description of some of our recent key acquisitions:  

   •    In May 2011, we acquired an additional 55% interest in Consulting Engineering Services (“CES”), a leading power, infrastructure, and civil engineering company, headquartered in Delhi, India. Founded in 1969, CES employs more than 2,000 people and provides a range of solutions in infrastructure development, planning, engineering, and construction management. This acquisition significantly increases our existing resources and capabilities in India to more than 4,500 employees and expands our presence in other regions in Asia and the Middle East.  

   •    In February 2011, we completed one of the larger acquisitions in the Company’s history. We acquired Aker Solutions’ Process and Construction (“P&C”) business, a 4,500-person operating unit serving the oil, gas, and refining markets, as well as mining and minerals, chemicals, energy and environmental industries. The primary purposes for acquiring Aker’s P&C business were to expand significantly our global presence in the mining and metals market; provide a new geographic region with South America; and enhance our regional presence in Australia, Europe, and North America. In a related transaction completed in April 2011, we acquired Aker Projects (Shanghai) Company Limited (Aker Solutions’ onshore P&C operations in China). This element of the Aker transactions greatly expanded our presence and capabilities in China.  

   •    In December 2010, we acquired Damon S Williams (“DSWA”), a 50-person professional services firm headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona. Founded in 1987, the consulting firm specializes in water and wastewater facilities, with expertise in planning, design, construction administration and operations services. The primary purpose for acquiring DSWA was to expand our water and wastewater capabilities to better serve our customers in the western United States.  

Page 5  

Table of Contents 

   •    In October 2010 we acquired Sula Systems Ltd (“Sula”), a 70-person professional services firm headquartered in Gloucestershire, England. Founded in 1996, Sula provides systems engineering and technical services on large, complex programs and projects to clients in the United Kingdom defense and aerospace markets. Sula is also involved in a number of major defense programs in areas such as armored vehicles, complex weapons, test and evaluation, submarine nuclear propulsion, and capability and network level systems engineering. Sula also provides services relating to civil airliners and space-based subsystems. The primary purpose for acquiring Sula was to expand the Company’s position in the defense and aerospace markets.  

   •    In October 2010, we acquired TechTeam Government Solutions, Inc. (“TechTeam”), formerly a wholly owned subsidiary of TechTeam Global, Inc. TechTeam is a 500-person information technology (“IT”) solutions company that provides support to U.S. federal, state and local government agencies, including the United States Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Army and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The firm’s core competencies include systems integration, enterprise application integration, ERP implementation support, IT infrastructure support, network operations management, and call center operations. The primary purpose for acquiring TechTeam was to expand the Company’s IT, modeling, and simulation services capabilities with the U.S. federal government.  

   •    In February 2010, we acquired Jordan, Jones and Goulding, Inc. (“JJG”), a 500-person professional services firm headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. Founded in 1958, JJG provides engineering, planning, and consulting services for water, wastewater, environmental and other clients. The primary purpose for acquiring JJG was to expand the Company’s capabilities in the North American areas of water and wastewater.  

   •    In December 2009, we acquired TYBRIN Corporation (“TYBRIN”), a 1,500-person professional services firm headquartered in Fort Walton Beach, Florida. Founded in 1972, TYBRIN is a leading supplier of mission planning solutions, systems engineering, software development, modeling and combat environment simulation, engineering and testing, range safety, and other services to the U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (“NASA”), and other government clients. The primary purpose for acquiring TYBRIN was to expand our professional services business with the U.S. federal government.  

   •    In March 2008 we acquired a 60% interest in Zamel & Turbag Consulting Engineers (“Zate”). Located in Saudi Arabia, Zate was an approximately 500-person professional services firm providing engineering and construction management services to clients operating in the oil & gas, refining, and chemicals industries. The primary purpose for acquiring Zate was to expand our business in the Middle East.  

   •    In November 2007, we acquired Carter & Burgess, Inc. (“Carter & Burgess”). Headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, Carter & Burgess was an approximately 3,200-person professional services firm providing architecture, engineering, design, and planning services to public and private sector clients operating in the fields of transportation, water, infrastructure programs, building programs, land development, and planning. The primary purpose for acquiring Carter & Burgess was to expand our infrastructure and facilities business in the U.S.  

   •    In April 2007, we acquired Edwards and Kelcey, Inc. (“Edwards and Kelcey”). Edwards and Kelcey was a nationally recognized engineering, design, planning, and construction management firm serving public and private clients in the fields of transportation, planning/environmental, communications technology, buildings/facilities, and land development. Headquartered in Morristown, New Jersey, Edwards and Kelcey employed approximately 1,000 people in offices located primarily in the Northeastern region of the United States (“U.S.”). The primary purpose for acquiring Edwards and Kelcey was to expand our infrastructure business in the U.S.  

In any particular year, we will also make smaller acquisitions as opportunities arise. With respect to all of our acquisitions, we move very quickly to integrate our operations post-closing. We typically assign senior operations personnel to manage the overall integration process with assistance from our Sales, Accounting, Legal, IT, Human Resources, and Risk Management departments. Although integrating newly acquired businesses can be very challenging, the assimilation process is critical in order to assure (i) that our global businesses processes and systems are properly deployed throughout the newly-acquired entities and (ii) we can begin to leverage-off the acquired talents, skills, and expertise to grow our business and help our clients execute their capital programs. Newly-acquired businesses are not left as stand-alone entities within the Company’s internal reporting system. The businesses we acquire are typically folded-in within existing operational organizations within the Company.  

Page 6  

Table of Contents 

Services Provided  

As described above, the services we provide generally fall into the following four broad categories: Project Services; Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services; Construction services; and Operations and Maintenance services. The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete, single-responsibility, design-build-operate contracts.  

The following table sets forth our revenues from each of our four service categories for each of the last five fiscal years (in thousands of dollars):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Project Services  

We employ all of the engineering, architectural, interiors, design, planning, and related disciplines necessary to design and engineer modern process plants (including projects for clients in the chemicals and polymers; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; upstream oil & gas; refining; food and consumer products; mining and minerals; and other basic resources industries); buildings (including facilities for clients in the healthcare; education; and criminal justice markets; as well as other specialized buildings for clients in the private sector); infrastructure projects (including highways, roads, bridges, and other transportation systems; water and wastewater treatment plants; water resources facilities; and other similar plants and facilities); technology and manufacturing facilities (for clients in the aerospace; automotive; defense; semiconductor; and electronics industries); consumer products manufacturing facilities; power plants and stations; pulp and paper plants; and other facilities.  

We are capable of providing our clients with a variety of value engineering services, including “safety in design.” Through safety in design we integrate best practices, hazard analysis, and risk assessment methods early in the design phase of projects, taking those steps necessary to eliminate or mitigate injury and damage during the construction, start-up, testing and commissioning, and operations phases of a project.  

In the area of construction management, we provide our clients with a wide range of services as an agent for our clients. We may act as the program director, whereby we oversee, on the owner’s behalf, the complete planning, design, and construction phases of the project. Alternatively, our services may be limited to providing construction consulting.  

Also included in the category of Project Services are certain related services (such as planning, scheduling, procurement, estimating, cost engineering, project accounting, and quality and safety) necessary to support our engineering, design, construction, construction and program management, operations and maintenance, and consulting services.  

Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting Services  

We employ all of the professional and technical skills and expertise with respect to a broad range of consulting services, including: performing pricing studies, market analyses, and financial projections necessary in determining the feasibility of a project; performing gasoline reformulation modeling; analyzing and evaluating layout and mechanical designs for complex processing plants; analyzing automation and control systems; analyzing, designing, and executing biocontainment strategies; developing and performing process protocols with respect to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration-mandated qualification and validation requirements; providing consultation on proposed railway and airport expansion projects; and performing geological and metallurgical studies.  

Also included in this service category are the revenues relating to professional and program management services required to assist clients (such as the U.S. federal government and its agencies) in a wide range of defense and aerospace-related programs. Such services typically are more technical and scientific in nature than other project services we provide, and may involve such tasks as supporting the development and testing of conventional weapons systems; weapons modeling and simulations; computer systems development, maintenance, and support; evaluation and testing of mission-critical control systems; aerospace, testing, and propulsion systems and facilities; and other highly technical programs and tasks.  

Page 7  

Table of Contents 

Construction Services  

We provide traditional field construction services to private and public sector clients in virtually all of the industry groups and markets to which we provide project services. In the area of environmental remediation and restoration, we provide environmental remedial construction services for a variety of public and private sector clients. We also provide many of our clients with modular construction technology. Our modular construction technology is an advanced form of engineering and design, off-site fabrication and assembly, and field erection. It provides our clients with an alternative approach to traditional methods of engineering and construction, which can compress and shorten the construction schedule, reduce risk, and lower costs.  

Historically, our field construction activities were focused primarily on those construction projects for which we perform much of the related engineering and design work. By focusing our construction efforts on such projects, we minimize the risks associated with constructing complex plants and facilities based on designs prepared by third parties. The financial risk to us of constructing complex plants and facilities based on designs prepared by third parties may be particularly significant on fixed-price contracts; therefore, we generally avoid this type of project. However, we will pursue construction-only projects when we can negotiate pricing and other contract terms we deem acceptable and which we believe will result in a fair return for the degree of risk we assume.  

Operations and Maintenance (“O&M”) Services  

O&M generally refers to all of the tasks required to operate and maintain large, complex facilities on behalf of clients. We can provide key management and support services over all aspects of the operations of a facility, including managing subcontractors and other on-site personnel. Within the environmental area, O&M often includes engineering and technical support services as well as program management services necessary to remediate contaminated sites. Within the aerospace and defense areas, O&M often requires us to provide the management and technical support services necessary to operate and maintain such sites as engine test facilities, weapons integration facilities, and high-tech simulation and verification centers. Such O&M contracts also frequently require us to provide facilities management and maintenance services; utilities operations and maintenance services; property management and disposition services; and construction support services.  

O&M also includes process plant maintenance services, which generally involves all of the tasks required to keep a process plant (typically a refinery or chemical plant) in day-to-day operation. Such tasks could include the repair and replacement of pumps, piping, heat exchangers, and other equipment as well as “turnaround” work, which involves major refurbishment that can only be performed when the plant is shut down. Since shutdowns are expensive to the owners of the plant, turnaround work often requires maximizing the number of skilled craft personnel who can work efficiently on a project on a 24-hour-per-day, seven-day-per-week basis. We use sophisticated computer scheduling and programming to complete turnaround projects quickly, and we maintain contact with a large pool of skilled craft personnel we can hire as needed on maintenance and turnaround projects.  

Although the gross profit margins we realize from O&M services are generally lower than those associated with the other services we provide, the costs to support maintenance activities are also generally lower. Furthermore, although engineering and construction projects may be of a short-term nature, O&M services often result in long-term relationships with clients. For example, we have been providing maintenance services at several major process plants within the U.S. for several decades. This aspect of maintenance services greatly reduces the selling costs in respect of such services.  

Financial Information About Segments  

Although we describe our business in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in terms of the various services we provide, the markets in which our clients operate, and the geographic areas in which we operate, we have concluded that our operations may be aggregated into one reportable segment pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”). In making this determination, we considered the various economic characteristics of our operations, including: the nature of the services we provide, the nature of our internal processes for delivering and distributing those services, and the types of customers we have. In addition to the discussion that follows, please refer to Note 14 — Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

There is a high degree of similarity among the workforces employed across the categories of services we provide. For example, professionals in engineering and design services (i.e., services provided by persons who are degreed, and in certain circumstances licensed, such as engineers, architects, scientists, and economists) exist in all four service categories. In addition, there is a high degree of similarity among a significant component of the workforces we employ to perform construction and O&M projects. In providing construction and O&M services, we employ a large number of skilled craft labor personnel. These may include welders, pipe fitters, electricians, crane operators, and other personnel who work on very large capital projects (in the case of projects classified within the construction services category) or on smaller capital projects (in the case of maintenance projects classified within the O&M services category).  

Page 8  

Table of Contents 

Our operating units use a matrix organizational structure. Our results, therefore, are dependent on groups representing technical disciplines (e.g., electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, cost engineering, etc.) and supporting project management personnel (who maintain the relationship between our clients and us who are ultimately responsible for delivering projects to our clients safely, on time, and on budget). Additionally, all of our operating regions use common tools, policies, and procedures to manage and run their respective units. These include project review meetings, project performance evaluations, and project execution plans.  

The use of technology throughout our organization is highly uniform. Whether it is computer-aided design and drafting (“CADD”) applications used by our engineering and design staff, or modeling programs used by the scientific and consulting staff, or scheduling, estimating, and cost control applications used by home-office personnel in support of our construction and maintenance activities, all of the service categories described above are equally affected by changes in technology as they occur in the economy at large.  

Furthermore, the types of information and internal reports used by the Company’s chief operating decision maker (the “CODM”, who is also the Company’s chief executive officer) and other members of management to monitor performance, evaluate results of operations, allocate resources, and otherwise manage the business support a single reportable segment. Accordingly, based on these similarities, we have concluded that our operations may be aggregated into one reportable segment for purposes of the disclosures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Industry Groups and Markets  

We market our services to all clients where the scope of work required by their capital projects and programs is within our expertise. We offer full-service consulting, planning, engineering, architecture, design, construction field services, construction management, modular fabrication, procurement, project management, asset management, operations and maintenance services to our clients worldwide. Within each market, we may offer specialty services unique to the sector or services which differentiate us from our competitors in the marketplace.  

The following table sets forth our revenues from each of the various industry groups and markets in which our clients operate for each of the last five fiscal years (in thousands of dollars):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

National Government Programs  

We categorize our National Government Programs as generally relating to aerospace and defense programs or environmental programs.  

Aerospace and Defense Programs  

We provide an in-depth range of science, engineering, and technical support services to the aerospace and defense industry. Long-term clients include the Ministry of Defence in the U.K., NASA, the DoD, the U.S. Special Operations Command (“USSOCOM”), and the Australian Department of Defence.  

Specific to NASA is our ability to design, build, operate, and maintain highly complex facilities relating to space systems, including test and evaluation facilities, launch facilities, and support infrastructure. We’ve played an integral role for NASA in delivering support to virtually every major space program, including the International Space Station; space shuttle recertification; space observatories; aerospace transportation systems; space propulsion systems; advanced materials research; and advanced research and development activities, such as protein crystal growth experiments for the development of new drugs and vaccines.  

Page 9  

Table of Contents 

Our experience in the defense sector includes military systems acquisition management and strategic planning; operations and maintenance of test facilities and ranges; test and evaluation in computer, laboratory, facility, and range environments; test facility computer systems instrumentation and diagnostics; and test facility design and build. We also provide systems engineering and integration of complex weapons and space systems, as well as hardware and software design of complex flight and ground systems.  

We have provided advanced technology engineering services to the DoD for more than 50 years, and currently support major defense programs in the United States and internationally. We operate and maintain several DoD test centers and provide services such as aerodynamic testing of next-generation fighter aircraft; propulsion testing for space programs; testing of the U.S. Army’s next-generation ground mobile weapon systems; and acquisition support for weapons systems such as air-to-air missile systems and precision-guided smart weapons for high-value targets. We assist in the acquisition and development of systems and equipment for Special Operations Forces, as well as the development of biological, chemical, and nuclear detection and protection systems.  

We support and maintain enterprise information systems for government and commercial clients worldwide, ranging from the operation of complex computational networks to the development and validation of specific software applications. We support the DoD in a number of information technology programs, including network design, integration, and support; command and control technology; development and maintenance of databases and customized applications; and security solutions.  

Environmental Programs  

We provide environmental investigation, permitting, restoration, remediation, engineering, and site operations services to a number of European, North American, and Middle Eastern government agencies. Our projects include hazardous and nuclear waste management and site cleanup and closure; the preparation of feasibility studies and environmental investigations; environmental design; and remediation services on several national programs, as well as compliance with various national environmental policies.  

We believe the U.K.’s mandatory climate change and energy saving program, the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, and the European Union’s Energy Policy for 2011-2020 provide us tremendous opportunity to offer our carbon management, waste management, recycling, landfill, and methane emissions reduction services to our clients. In the U.S., much of our work relates to major environmental statutes, with particular emphasis on the U.S.’ Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as green infrastructure over the next 10 years.  

Our clients include the DoD, the U.K.’s Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (“NDA”), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the United States Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (“AFCEE”). Some of these projects require execution of capital projects involving sustainment, repair, and modernization of military facilities and infrastructure.  

Additionally, we support our clients in such areas as pollution prevention assessments; underground storage tank removal; contaminated soil and water remediation, monitoring and systems cleanup; long-term water quality management plans; and air quality planning and permitting. Much of this type of work is in support of large infrastructure projects that are underway both in Europe and in North America.  

As a differentiating aspect of our support to clients, we provide asset management services in the form of long-term infrastructure operations and maintenance. This is an integral part of our services for the U.S. Department of Energy (“DoE”). Asset management also includes building closures that involve deactivation, decommissioning, and demolition of government facilities.  

Refining- Downstream  

Our typical refining projects range in size from several thousand dollars to multi-billion-dollar facilities, and include new design and construction, revamps or expansions of existing plants, turnarounds, upgrades of individual process units within refineries, and long-term maintenance services. In addition to our core services for our global refining clients, we provide process assessments, facility appraisals, feasibility studies, technology evaluations, project finance structuring and support, and multi-client subscription services. We are also a market leader in clean fuels, environmental, and compliance projects – all meeting government regulatory requirements.  

Our modular construction capabilities, asset management/maintenance services, and formal client alliances help differentiate us in this industry. As a result of the close proximity of processing units in refineries when renovating or upgrading, using modular construction can decrease congestion at the construction site and can also provide enhanced safety, cost, and project execution benefits in remote locations.  

In this market, we also include power generation projects within our clients’ refining and processing facilities. Typical projects include simple and combined cycle power projects, industrial gas turbines, and emergency power generation stations. Services where we can offer specific assistance include procurement and commissioning of equipment.  

Page 10  

Table of Contents 

Chemicals and Polymers  

The types of projects we execute for our clients operating in the chemicals and polymers industries include feedstock synthesis, chemical synthesis, and polymerization. This includes high-pressure processes to produce industrial chemicals and low-pressure, multi-product processes to produce specialty and fine chemicals. We have extensive knowledge of and experience with advanced polymerization reactors and state-of-the-art, post-reactor processing techniques to help bring new products and new facilities to market quickly and economically. One of our areas of focus, due to high feedstock costs, is gasification to produce the feeds for chemicals and fertilizers.  

Our clients in this sector focus on safety, reliability, and maintainability to keep operating costs down. To support this initiative, we apply best practices on capital and maintenance work by leveraging resources within our alliances and partnerships that in some cases involve more than 25 chemical facilities for one owner. As these multi-site relationships increase in magnitude, the range of services we can provide our clients broadens and varies from providing on-site planning and basic engineering services to completing an entire capital improvement program.  

Our goal is to guide and assist our chemical clients from planning and concept to a constructed and operating chemical facility. Specialty services we provide to our clients in these industries include project finance structuring, market analysis, facility appraisal, and procurement with global inspection capabilities as a value-add to our core services.  

Another important aspect of serving our clients in the chemicals business is in the area of field services. We have contracts with major chemical producers worldwide to provide construction, on-site maintenance, and turnaround activities. Many of these contracts are evergreen in nature, with relationships extending over many years due to our focus on safety, value, and client satisfaction and lead us to numerous formal alliances.  

Infrastructure  

Our strength in this industry segment includes transportation, transit, aviation, water and wastewater, and civil construction projects throughout North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. Representative clients include national government departments and agencies in the U.S. and the U.K.; state departments of transportation within the U.S.; other regional and local agencies; and private industry freight transport firms. In addition, we are growing our markets in the Middle East and Asia.  

Transportation infrastructure development/rehabilitation is a core competency of our infrastructure business. Our systems include alternative delivery methods such as design-build, public-private funding ventures, and enterprise management options. Typical projects include highways, bridges, transit, tunnels, airports, railroads, intermodal facilities, and maritime or port projects where our interdisciplinary teams work independently or as an extension of the client’s staff. We also help shape this market by providing program advisory services relating to public-private partnerships and tollways that result in improving mobility within a region’s existing infrastructure with limited traditional transportation funding. Providing alternative financing methods has also proven successful in Europe where there is privatization of public infrastructure systems.  

We have a long history of serving international, regional, and municipal airports, as well as air carriers and military installations. While the aviation industry has faced pressure over recent years, our knowledge of air and landside design and technology, our ability to develop sustainable (green) programs, and our depth and breadth of expertise help our aviation clients streamline operations and reduce operating and maintenance costs.  

In water infrastructure, we help public and private sector clients develop or rehabilitate critical water resource systems. By integrating water, wastewater, air quality, and waste remediation experience, we provide these clients with the comprehensive expertise needed to deliver complex programs. Clients include regional wastewater treatment agencies, flood control agencies, manufacturers and utilities, local water suppliers, and military installations. We continue to develop water/wastewater conveyance systems and water flood defense projects. We have developed micro-tunneling (“trenchless technology”) as a primary service and successfully applied this specialized process to such projects as water and utility distribution systems and pipelines.  

Buildings  

Our diversified client base encompassing both public and private sectors throughout the United States, many parts of Europe, and the Middle East relates primarily to institutional, commercial, government and corporate buildings, including projects at many of the world’s leading medical and research centers, and universities. We focus our efforts and resources in areas where capital spending initiatives drive demand, and where changes and advances in technology require innovative, value-adding solutions.  

Page 11  

Table of Contents 

We have specific capabilities in energy and power, master planning, and commissioning for office headquarters, aviation facilities, mission-critical centers, municipal and civic buildings, courts and correctional facilities, retail, mixed-use and commercial centers, healthcare and education campuses, and recreation complexes, including some of the most high-profile entertainment facilities. We also specialize in the management of large national rollout store and distribution center programs for top, publicly traded retailers.  

Of particular significance is our growing success in applying our diversified technical skill base to both public and private sector clients requiring complete program management. Such contracts typically involve providing technical, professional, and construction services over multiple years to clients with whom we have long standing relationships and tenure of successful service, including alliance or framework programs. We also provide integrated facility management services for which we (often through joint ventures with third parties) assume full responsibility for the ongoing operation and maintenance of entire commercial or industrial complexes on behalf of the client.  

Advanced technology clients require highly specialized buildings in the fields of medical research, nano science, biotechnology, and laser sciences. We offer total integrated design and construction management solutions to these projects, many of which are world leaders in their function.  

Our national building projects include large, multi-year government building programs in the U.S. and Europe, including renovating and modernizing terminal radar control centers, air traffic control towers, and other aviation facilities; planning and design services for offices, data centers and mission control facilities; and support for complex government-sponsored laboratory and research facilities.  

U.S. government agencies we serve include the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”); the General Services Administration (“GSA”); the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”); the U.S. Departments of State, Treasury, Agriculture, Homeland Security, and Defense; and the Army National Guard, among others. In the U.K., we are leading the Custodial Services’ project management delivery program to upgrade the U.K. prison stock and also certain security-led programs such as upgrading works to the Palace of Westminster and some Regional Police Authorities.  

We are providing our full range of services to the DoD on military family housing; quality of life projects; training, maintenance, and readiness facilities; and command and control centers, as well as military facilities supporting the DoD’s global re-basing program, the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (“BRAC”) program.  

Oil & Gas — Upstream  

In the exploration and production market, many of our upstream projects are in North America, Europe, India, and the Middle East and include offshore and deepwater facilities; heavy oil processing (e.g., oil sands thermal extraction projects); oil recovery through steam injection; and gas treating, gas gathering, and gas storage projects including extraction of commercially valuable elements of the gas stream, utilizing new technologies such as Steam-Assisted Gravity Drainage (“SAGD”).  

Typical projects involve the design and construction of projects that recover oil and gas, and include oil thermal recovery facilities either by in-situ means (steam injection or steam-assisted gravity drainage) or oil sands mining, upgraders, pipelines, gas plants, and CO2 flood. These are typically large projects that may involve many of our offices and normally include our Mumbai, India office as a value-added center to reduce client costs.  

We are also providing substantial maintenance and modification services for aging oil and gas facilities around the world, as well as offering unique subsea engineering capabilities that will expand the Company into the subsea completion and production market. In connection with the refining market, we also provide process assessments, facility appraisals, feasibility studies, technology evaluations, project finance structuring, and support services.  

Mining and Minerals  

Our mining and minerals business targets the non-ferrous and ferrous metal markets, precious metals, energy minerals (uranium, coal, oil sands), industrial and fertilizer minerals (mineral sands, borates, trona, phosphates and potash). We work with many of the world’s current and upcoming successful resources companies undertaking new and existing facility upgrades and process plant developments. We offer project management; front-end studies; and full engineering, procurement, construction, and maintenance (“EPCM”) capabilities; completions, commissioning and start-up services specializing in new plant construction, brownfield expansions, and sustaining capital and maintenance projects.  

For our mining and mineral clients, we offer proprietary iron ore pelletizing technology, as well as propriety designs for high-alloy equipment deployed in strong-acid environments. We also provide the industry proprietary sulfuric acid production technology  

Page 12  

Table of Contents 

 through our Chemetics subsidiary — an important synergistic by-product of the smelting process and a key consumable in mines employing ore leaching technology.  

By focusing on mitigating our clients’ resource risk, we are able to provide a reliable and familiar labor pool for their ongoing projects. By hosting local offices in the most active mining geographies (South America, Australia, Canada, India, South Africa), we can help our clients improve their project delivery and resource availability for overstretched labor markets.  

Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology  

As companies in this industry continue to experience pressure to decrease product time-to-market, reduce costs, and increase return on investment, the types of services we provide have grown over the years to include modular construction, as well as consulting and strategic planning to help our clients complete capital projects faster and more efficiently. We are leaders in applying LEAN execution techniques to capital project execution. As an example, we increased our efforts to integrate commissioning and validation services, helping reduce the amount of time required to introduce a new drug into the marketplace.  

We provide our pharmaceuticals and biotechnology clients single-point consulting, engineering, procurement, construction management, and validation (“EPCMV”) project delivery, enabling us to execute the industry’s largest capital programs on a single-responsibility basis. Typical projects in this sector include laboratories, research and development facilities, pilot plants, bulk active pharmaceutical ingredient production facilities, full-scale biotechnology production facilities, and secondary manufacturing facilities.  

Regulatory compliance, state-of-the-art technology, and increased efficiencies are critical issues to our clients in these industries. Such technology and knowledge encompass containment, barrier technology, locally controlled environments, building systems automation, and off-the-site design and fabrication of facility modules. We also bring such expertise in vaccine production and purification, and aseptic processing.  

In addition to providing our core services, we rely on our programming, target concept design, 3-D visualization capabilities, project controls, and automation capabilities to provide value to our clients. This enables us to better transition projects from the planning phase through engineering, construction, start-up, commissioning, and validation phases as economically and efficiently as possible.  

As new product discovery and development drive capital spending, our multi-domestic structure, as well as formal alliances and preferred provider agreements, enhances our ability to act as a program partner, helping clients effectively manage their strategic investments, and deliver their capital programs worldwide.  

Industrial and Other  

We provide a broad range of services to our clients operating in the power; pulp and paper; high-technology manufacturing; food, beverage, and consumer products industries and markets.  

Power  

In this market, we include power generation and cogeneration projects for the energy supply industry. Typical projects include simple and combined cycle power projects, cogeneration power plants, aeroderivative and industrial gas turbines, and emergency power generation stations. Services where we can offer specific assistance include procurement and commissioning of equipment.  

Pulp and Paper  

The pulp and paper industry has been consolidating for many years, and several of the traditional pulp and paper clients have emerged as major consumer product companies. These clients have created new opportunities for us in non-traditional areas, such as wall board plants and facilities that manufacture diapers and feminine care products. Typical projects range from small mill projects to complex, multi-million-dollar paper machine rebuilds, mill expansions, and the construction of new facilities.  

Pulp and paper projects encompass many areas of a mill, including pulping and bleaching, papermaking, chemical recovery, material handling, effluent treatment, and power and steam generation. In the area of papermaking, our expertise includes tissue and towel, coated and uncoated fine papers, newsprint, and linerboard. Our expertise also includes the converting and packaging of paper products for distribution and consumer use. We have been instrumental in designing and installing state-of-the-art facilities for recycled fiber, de-inking, and pulp bleaching.  

Our pulp and paper capability extends through our offices in the U.S., U.K., France, Spain, Italy, and Mexico to clients worldwide. A significant portion of our work consists of assisting our clients in their compliance with environmental regulations and standards that affect the pulp and paper industry. We monitor all of the key environmental regulations affecting our clients and offer  

Page 13  

Table of Contents 

 services, including compliance studies, permitting support, and design of pollution control systems. We also assist with complete permitting services, including associated air modeling, as well as compliance services regarding air pollutant standards and hazardous air pollutant emission limits from industrial boilers for our pulp and paper clients.  

High-Technology Manufacturing  

We provide our core services for a variety of high tech manufacturing and test facilities, particularly for clients in the automotive and industrial industries.  

We are a leader in providing support to automotive manufacturers and component suppliers for the supply of testing services and the management of test assets. Typical automotive projects range from conceptual design and feasibility studies to complete design-build programs of aero-acoustic wind tunnels, engine test facilities, acoustic enclosures, transmission test stands; powertrain, environmental, emissions, altitude, and electromagnetic compatibility test facilities; in-line and end-of-line component test stands; and computer-based measurement and control systems.  

We also provide our services for advanced technology and research facilities, including facilities supporting research in fusion and fission energy, nanoscale materials, and high-powered lasers and X-rays to support important research activities in the U.S., Europe, and the U.K.  

We also perform projects for clients operating in the semiconductor industry. Projects in the semiconductor industry are typically more complex than many other commercial facilities, requiring a greater emphasis on cleanroom and similar high-end technologies. Our projects range from on-site plant engineering and tool hookups to multi-million dollar state-of-the-art wafer fabrication and crystal growing facilities used to produce solar energy cells, microprocessors for computers, and other consumer electronic devices.  

Food, Beverage and Consumer Products  

Influenced by discerning, health-conscious consumers with increased awareness of nutrition and wellness, and as a result of growth in the industry, our clients are responding to consumer demands in Asia, Europe, and North America, as well as in certain developing countries. Producers are responding with innovation and renovation of core products, driving investments for new plants and retrofitting of existing ones.  

As a leading provider to the entire food, beverage, and consumer products supply chain, our global presence and capabilities allow us to help our clients with targeted expansion and new investments. Our food processing services include hygienic design, clean-in-place (“CIP”) systems, heat transfer systems, material handling of liquids and solids, refrigeration, and compliance with government requirements.  

The need to efficiently deliver the right consumer products at the right time remains critical to our clients. From facility design to raw materials processing to converting, packaging, and distribution, our vast depth of expertise helps our clients do just that. Our knowledge of food and beverage processing results in plants that are productive, efficient, and economical.  

Our clients are global and diverse, including chicken and meat processors, beer and soda companies, chocolate and candy makers, healthcare product companies, and major food manufacturers and distributors.  

Backlog  

Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. Our backlog includes expected revenues for contracts that are based on estimates. For information regarding our backlog including those risk factors specific to backlog, please refer to Item 1A — Risk Factors, and Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below.  

Page 14  

Table of Contents 

Significant Customers  

The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government for each of the last five fiscal years:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

It is uncommon for a commercial customer to contribute 10% or more of the Company’s total revenues. On occasion, however, we will perform a number of field services projects for a single customer in the same fiscal year which, primarily because of the amount of pass-through costs (discussed below) that is included in revenue, will cause total revenue from that customer to exceed 10% of total consolidated revenues. For the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009 revenues earned from Motiva Enterprises LLC accounted for 12.2% of total consolidated revenues.  

Financial Information About Geographic Areas  

Selected financial information regarding the geographic areas in which we operate is included in Note 14 — Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Contracts  

While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts we undertake, our contracts generally fall into three broad categories: cost-reimbursable, fixed-price, and guaranteed maximum price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts for each of the last five fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts (including those with the U.S. federal government) are subject to termination at the discretion of the client, which is discussed in greater detail in Item 1A — Risk Factors. In such situations, our contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination.  

When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement, and construction of a project or the maintenance of a client’s plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment, and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. The following table sets forth the approximate amount of such pass-through costs included in revenues for each of the last five fiscal years (in millions of dollars):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cost-Reimbursable Contracts  

Cost-reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark-up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark-up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount as specified in the contract; it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract. In general, we prefer cost-reimbursable contracts because we believe the primary reason for awarding a contract to us should be our technical expertise and professional qualifications rather than price.  

Fixed-Price Contracts  

Fixed-price contracts include both “lump sum bid” contracts and “negotiated fixed-price” contracts. Under lump sum bid contracts, we typically bid against other contractors based on specifications the client furnishes. This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid contracts to lead to an  

Page 15  

Table of Contents 

 adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship-based business model. Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract. In contrast, under a negotiated fixed-price contract, we are selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client. Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently exist in single-responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of the project. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed-price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts. Over the past five years, most of our fixed-price work has been either negotiated fixed-price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for project services, rather than turn-key construction.  

Guaranteed Maximum Price Contracts  

Guaranteed maximum price contracts are performed in the same manner as cost-reimbursable contracts; however, the total actual cost plus the fee cannot exceed the guaranteed price negotiated with the client. If the total actual cost of the contract exceeds the guaranteed maximum price, then we will bear at least some, if not all, of the excess. In those cases where the total actual cost and fee are less than the guaranteed price, we will often share the savings on a predetermined basis with the client. These contracts are not our preferred form of contract because we believe they often contribute to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship-based business model.  

Competition  

For information regarding the competitive conditions in our business, please refer to Item 1A—Risk Factors, below.  

Employees  

At September 30, 2011, we had approximately 45,700 full-time, staff employees (including contract staff). Additionally, as of September 30, 2011, there were approximately 14,500 persons employed in the field on a project basis. The number of field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular time.  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The information required by Paragraph (a), and Paragraphs (c) through (g) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K (except for information required by Paragraph (e) of that Item to the extent the required information pertains to our executive officers) and Item 405 of Regulation S-K is hereby incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year.  

The following table presents the information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and, with the exception of Mr. Mandel and Ms. Carmody, have served in executive and senior management capacities with the Company for more than five years.  

Prior to joining Jacobs in 2008, Ms. Carmody served as the Chief Information Officer for SAIC Inc., a large provider of scientific, engineering, systems integration and technical services and solutions, from August 2003 to April 2008. Mr. Mandel joined the Company in February 2011 through the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Mr. Mandel served in various senior management roles with Aker Solutions ASA since first joining them in 1995.  

Page 16  

Table of Contents 

Available Information  

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C., 20549. In order to obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room, a person may call the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC also maintains a site on the Internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and download the various reports we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge from our website, http://www.jacobs.com.  

 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS