Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Critical Accounting Policies  

In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements.  

The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long-term engineering and construction-type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entity’s results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 – Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures—In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in schedule; the costs of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. For contracts containing incentive fee arrangements, fees are frequently based on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and/or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project.  

We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion. For multiple contracts with a single customer we account for each contract separately.  

The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims.  

Certain cost-reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly.  

As is common to the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. Although the joint ventures own and hold the contracts with the clients, the services required by the contracts are typically performed by us and our joint venture partners, or by other subcontractors under subcontracting agreements with the joint ventures. The assets of our joint ventures, therefore, consist almost entirely of cash and receivables (representing amounts due from clients), and the liabilities of our joint ventures consist almost entirely of amounts due to the joint venture partners (for services provided by the partners to the joint ventures under their individual subcontracts) and other subcontractors. In general, at any given time, the equity of our joint ventures represents the undistributed profits earned on contracts the joint ventures hold with clients. Very few of our joint ventures have employees. None of our joint ventures have third-party debt or credit facilities. Our joint ventures, therefore, are simply mechanisms used to deliver engineering and construction services to clients. Rarely do they, in and of themselves, present any risk of loss to us or to our partners separate from those that we would carry if we were performing the contract on our own. Under U.S. GAAP, our share of losses associated with the contracts held by the joint ventures, if and when they occur, has always been reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Page 31  

Table of Contents 

On October 2, 2010 the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) new accounting guidance relating to the consolidation of variable interest entities (“VIE”). This guidance replaces the quantitative-based assessment for determining which participant in a VIE has a controlling interest in the VIE with an approach that is now primarily qualitative. The Company has reassessed its VIEs using the new guidance. The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

In evaluating our VIEs, we perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether or not we have a controlling financial interest in the VIE. We are deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a VIE if we have (i) the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance; and (ii) the right to receive benefits, or obligation to absorb losses, that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In making our qualitative analysis, we assess each VIE to determine those activities that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance and whether we, another party, or multiple parties have the power to direct such activities.  

If we determine that we have the power to direct those activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its financial performance and have the right or obligation to receive benefits or absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE then we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE and we consolidate the VIE. If we determine that we do not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE or power is shared by two or more unrelated parties then we are not the primary beneficiary and we do not consolidate the VIE. For the Company’s unconsolidated joint ventures, we use either the equity method of accounting or proportional consolidation. The Company does not currently participate in any significant VIEs in which it has a controlling financial interest that it does not consolidate.  

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others— We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant-date fair value of the award. We estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Like all option-pricing models, the Black-Scholes models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including (i) the expected volatility of the market price of the underlying stock, and (ii) the expected term of the award, among others. Accordingly, changes in assumptions and any subsequent adjustments to those assumptions can cause drastically different fair values to be assigned to our stock option awards. For restricted stock units containing service and performance conditions, compensation expense is based on the fair value of such units using a Monte Carlo Simulation. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the use of assumptions and the results of applying Monte Carlo Simulations, the amount of expense recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements may not be representative of the effects on our future consolidated financial statements because equity awards tend to vest over several years and additional equity awards may be made in the future.  

Accounting for Pension Plans— The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans’ assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7 – Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2012 range from 2.7% to 7.5%; this compares to a range of 2.2% to 8.0% for fiscal 2011. We believe the range of rates we applied for fiscal 2012 reflects the long-term returns expected on the plans’ assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans’ assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.1% to 5.1% in fiscal 2010 to a range of 2.6% to 5.9% in fiscal 2011. These assumptions represent the Company’s best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled.  

Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the net pension benefit obligation (“PBO”) at September 30, 2011 was higher (lower) by 0.5%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $79.0 million for non-U.S. plans, and by approximately $28.3 million for U.S. plans. If the expected return on plan assets was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2012 would be lower (higher) by approximately $7.6 million for non-U.S. plans, and by approximately $2.4 million for U.S. plans. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used.  

Page 32  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance— In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers’ compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts.  

In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such insurance reserves in our consolidated results of operations.  

In addition, as a contractor providing services to the United States federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations.  

Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment— The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as “Europe” and “Non-Europe”. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2011 Form 10-K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and/or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services.  

Our geography-based reporting units reflect the Company’s organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and where all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions.  

U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. We determined that a market approach is an appropriate method for valuing our reporting units in light of its common use as a technique for valuing businesses in general. Using this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after-tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Company’s overall average market earnings multiple. Since the activities of each reporting unit approximates that of the Company overall, we concluded that the use the Company’s market multiple for purposes of applying the market-based valuation approach was reasonable. We also consider the market multiples of similar businesses. We believe that the use of this multiple is appropriate considering that both reporting units have qualitative characteristics that are generally consistent with those of the parent company. Those characteristics include size in terms of resources (i.e., personnel); a large, diverse client base; broad geographic reach; and a broad range of design, engineering, and construction and construction management capabilities.  

The determination of reporting units and the selection of the valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the exercise of judgment by management. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties.  

As mentioned above, the key inputs used in the valuation model are the after-tax earnings of our reporting units and the Company’s market-driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 were approximately 18, 14, and 15, respectively. In the event either the after-tax earnings of the Company’s reporting units or the Company’s market earnings multiples decline significantly after the date the annual impairment test is performed, the Company will re-perform the test at a date closer to fiscal year-end. We have determined that the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective carrying values for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009.  

Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at either September 30, 2011 or October 1, 2010.  

Changes in the inputs used in our valuation model (i.e., declines in the Company’s average earnings multiple or the after-tax earnings of our reporting units) could result in an indication of possible impairment of goodwill in the future.  

Page 33  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal 2011 — Overview  

The most significant event that affects the comparability of the Company’s consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 is the loss that was recorded last year in connection with the SIVOM Judgment.  

During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (the “SIVOM Judgment”). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre-tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Net of the effects of the charge on the Company’s long-term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share.  

Because of the unusual nature of the SIVOM Judgment, we include in certain places within this MD&A a discussion of the Company’s consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2011 as it compares to fiscal 2010, both with and without the effects of the SIVOM Judgment. Although any fiscal 2010 information that excludes the effects of the SIVOM Judgment is non-U.S. GAAP, it is presented because Management believes such information provides a better point of reference for assessing the Company’s current financial performance and operating trends.  

The following table reconciles the Company’s fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP to its fiscal 2010 consolidated results of operations excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment (in thousands, except earnings per share):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s net earnings increased $85.1 million, or 34.6%, from $246.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $331.0 million for fiscal 2011. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, the Company’s net earnings increased $24.8 million, or 8.1%, from $306.3 million for fiscal 2010 to $331.0 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase in net earnings was an increase in revenues on projects for customers operating in a number of industry groups and markets including mining and minerals (due primarily to the acquisition of the Aker Entities, which is discussed in more detail in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); infrastructure; chemicals and polymers; and oil & gas – upstream). Also contributing to the increase in net earnings was good control over our selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses. Although SG&A expenses increased $108.1 million, or 11.6%, from $932.5 million in fiscal 2010 to $1.04 billion in fiscal 2011, the Aker Entities contributed approximately $113.0 million of this increase.  

With respect to the Company’s consolidated financial condition, bank indebtedness increased $488.2 million during fiscal 2011, from $79.9 million at October 1, 2010 to $568.1 million at September 30, 2011. Substantially all of the increase relates to debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities.  

Backlog at September 30. 2011 increased $1.1 billion, or 8.2%, to $14.3 billion. Included in this amount is approximately $1.0 billion related to the Aker Entities. Backlog at September 30, 2011 includes new awards from clients operating in the Oil & Gas-Upstream, High Technology, and Infrastructure industries and markets.  

Page 34  

Table of Contents 

Results of Operations  

General  

Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories:  

   •    Project services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, interiors, planning, and similar services);  

   •    Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which include a wide variety of services performed in connection with scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities, as well as information technology, and systems engineering and integration activities);  

   •    Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct-hire construction and construction management services); and  

   •    Operations and Maintenance services (which include services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients, as well as services involving process plant and facilities maintenance).  

The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single-responsibility, design-build contracts, to services required in the post start-up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services.  

The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We focus our services on clients operating in select industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross-utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We recorded net earnings of $331.0 million, or $2.60 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, net earnings and earnings per share for fiscal 2010 were $306.3 million and $2.44, respectively.  

Revenues increased $466.1 million, or 4.7%, from $9.9 billion for fiscal 2010 to $10.4 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients operating in the Mining and Minerals markets increased significantly during fiscal 2011 due primarily to the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients for Infrastructure projects increased $280.7 million, or 29.9%, from $939.0 million for fiscal 2010 to $1.2 billion for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were higher Project Services revenues for various transportation projects in the U.S. combined with revenues attributable to the Aker Entities. Revenues from clients operating in the Chemicals & Polymers markets increased $257.8 million, or 21.4%, from $1.2 billion for fiscal 2010 to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2011. Revenues from clients  

Page 35  

Table of Contents 

 operating in the Oil & Gas – Upstream markets increased $194.0 million, or 34.7%, from $559.5 million for fiscal 2010 to $753.5 million for fiscal 2011. Contributing to this increase were several large, EPC projects performed in North America.  

Direct costs of contracts increased $239.3 million, or 2.8%, from $8.6 billion during fiscal 2010 to $8.8 billion during fiscal 2011. Direct costs of contracts include all costs incurred in connection with and directly for the benefit of client contracts, including depreciation and amortization relating to assets used in connection with providing the services required by client projects. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass-through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third-party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as “pass-through costs”). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass-through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass-through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well.  

Pass-through costs decreased $604.8 million, or 22.2%, from $2.7 billion during fiscal 2010 to $2.1 billion for fiscal 2011. In general, pass-through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues decreased $306.7 million, or 6.4%, from $4.8 billion during fiscal 2010 to $4.5 billion during fiscal 2011. Pass-through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients’ projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass-through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business.  

As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 86.6% for fiscal 2010. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and/or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass-through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2011 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass-through costs.  

SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 increased by $108.1 million, or 11.6%, to $1.04 billion, compared to $932.5 million for fiscal 2010. The Aker Entities contributed $113.0 million (inclusive of due diligence and integration costs) of SG&A expenses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Excluding the SG&A expenses of the Aker Entities, SG&A expenses for fiscal 2011 decreased by $4.9 million compared to fiscal 2010. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in home-office headcount and the amount of spending required to support our technical professional services activities, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, it is not unusual to see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2011 was due primarily to management’s efforts to reduce SG&A expenses.  

Operating profit was $518.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, compared to $400.1 million ($478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.0% for fiscal 2011, compared to 4.0% in fiscal 2010 (4.8%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment).  

Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2011, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments remained low in fiscal 2011.  

Interest expense for fiscal 2011 decreased $1.1 million, as compared to fiscal 2010. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2011 increased $8.8 million as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2011 was due primarily to the debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Interest expense in fiscal 2010 included the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over a number of years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully.  

The Company’s consolidated effective income tax rate was 35.1% for fiscal 2011, compared to 37.2% in fiscal 2010. The tax rate in fiscal 2011 decreased from fiscal 2010 due to a change in the mix of international work and the successful resolution of a U.S. domestic tax issue. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies  

Page 36  

Table of Contents 

 representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009  

We recorded net earnings of $246.0 million, or $1.96 per diluted share ($306.3 million, or $2.44 per diluted share, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010, compared to net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for fiscal 2009.  

Revenues for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 totaled $9.9 billion, and represents a decrease of $1.6 billion, or 13.5%, as compared to $11.5 billion for fiscal 2009.  

Revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for clients operating in many of the industry groups and markets we serve were significantly lower as compared to fiscal 2009. The larger decreases occurred in the Refining – Downstream; Oil & Gas – Upstream; and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industry groups and markets. These declines related to the normal winding-down and completion of large projects, combined with the lack of new project awards. These industry groups and markets was also significantly impacted by the global recession, causing many clients to re-examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. Also contributing to the decline in revenues within these industry groups and markets was a $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, decrease in pass-through costs.  

In contrast, revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $165.9 million, or 7.7%, as compared to fiscal 2009. Most of the increase related to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, other technical services projects.  

Similarly, revenues during fiscal 2010 related to Buildings projects increased by $76.2 million, or 9.6%, as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase relates to spending for the design of technical buildings.  

For the fiscal year 2010 we earned $176.8 million in revenues for projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.  

Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 13.4%, to $8.6 billion, compared to $9.9 billion for fiscal 2009. Pass-through costs for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, to $2.7 billion, compared to $4.0 billion for fiscal 2009. Field services revenues for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.1 billion, or 19.0%, to $4.8 billion, compared to $5.9 billion for fiscal 2009.  

As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 86.6% for fiscal 2010, compared to 86.4% for fiscal 2009. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to lower levels of pass-through costs.  

SG&A expenses for fiscal 2010 decreased by $7.8 million, or 0.8%, to $932.5 million, compared to $940.3 million for fiscal 2009. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2010 was due primarily to management’s efforts to reduce SG&A expenses.  

Operating profit for fiscal 2010 decreased by $220.5 million, or 35.5%, to $400.1 million ($142.3 million, or 22.9%, to $478.3 million, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment), compared to $620.6 million for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 4.0% (4.9%, before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment) for fiscal 2010, compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2009. In addition to the effects of the SIVOM judgment, the decrease in operating profit was due primarily to the overall decline in business volume.  

Interest income for fiscal 2010 decreased by $8.4 million, to $4.8 million, compared to $13.1 million for fiscal 2009. Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2010, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009.  

Interest expense for fiscal 2010 increased $7.0 million as compared to fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects of the SIVOM Judgment, interest expense for fiscal 2010 decreased $2.9 million as compared to fiscal 2009. This decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over the past several years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully in fiscal 2010  

The Company’s consolidated effective income tax rate was 37.2% for fiscal 2010 compared to 36.0% in fiscal 2009. The increase in the tax rate in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009 was primarily related to not receiving a tax benefit on the $25.9 million non-cash charge related to the SIVOM Judgment.  

Page 37  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations  

The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2011 (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Assumes the Company will make the end of lease term residual value guarantee payment of $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of an office buildings in Houston, Texas.  

 (b) Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2012, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of September 30, 2011. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements.  

 (c) Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2011, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of September 30, 2011.  

 (d) Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of September 30, 2011.  

Backlog  

Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods.  

The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The entire value of contract awards are added to backlog when the contracts are awarded to us. Accordingly, backlog can fluctuate from one reporting period to the next due to the timing of when new contracts are added to backlog and when the contract revenue is recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years). Our backlog at September 30, 2011 increased by $1.1 billion, or 8.2%, to $14.3 billion from $13.2 billion at October 1, 2010.  

In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2011.  

While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues.  

Page 38  

Table of Contents 

Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $3.6 billion (or 24.9% of total backlog), $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog), and $4.2 billion (or 27.7% of total backlog) at September 30, 2011, October 1, 2010, and October 2, 2009, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts).  

Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A—Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $7.7 billion, or 54.2%, of total backlog at September 30, 2011 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year.  

Effects of Inflation  

The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in Item 1A—Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

At September 30, 2011, our primary sources of liquidity consisted of $905.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, and $89.5 million of available borrowing capacity under our $290.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. We finance as much of our operations and growth as possible through cash generated by our operations.  

In addition to our revolving credit facility, we entered into several new bilateral credit facilities with major U.S. and European banks in connection with the acquisition of the Aker Entities. Approximately $292.8 million was outstanding under these facilities at September 30, 2011. In connection with our purchase of an additional 55% interest in CES, we entered into two bilateral facilities with major banks in the U.S. and Asia. Approximately $66.7 million was outstanding under these facilities at September 30, 2011. And in connection with our fiscal 2009 acquisition of a one-third interest in AWE Management Ltd., we entered into a short-term credit facility with a major U.K. bank of which $32.6 million was outstanding at September 30, 2011.  

During fiscal 2011, our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $33.2 million to $905.6 million at September 30, 2011. This compares to a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $94.8 million, to $938.8 million, during the corresponding period last year. During fiscal 2011, we used $801.8 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities. This cash outflow was offset in part by net cash inflows of $236.5 million from operating activities and $556.9 million from financing activities.  

Our operations provided net cash of $236.5 million during fiscal 2011. This compares to net cash inflows of $221.1 million and $531.7 million during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $15.4 million increase in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due primarily to an $88.9 million increase in net earnings and a $15.3 million increase in deferred income tax expense, offset in part by $28.4 million of changes relating to other deferred liabilities (the effects on cash flows from changes in other deferred liabilities were included in cash flows from financing activities in fiscal 2010 and 2009), a $22.5 million decrease relating to changes in our working capital accounts (discussed below), and the effect of the $25.9 million non-cash charge relating to the fiscal 2010 SIVOM Judgment.  

Because such a high percentage of our revenues are earned on cost-plus type contracts, and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass-through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Company’s working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Accounts receivable consist of billings to our clients — a substantial portion of which is for project-related costs. Billings in excess of cost consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred.  

This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique for our industry, and facilitates review of our liquidity at the total working capital level. There was little change in our total working capital accounts during fiscal 2011 when compared to fiscal 2010. However, there were significant changes within the components of our working capital accounts. These changes were due primarily to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts combined with an increase in our receivables relative to the increase in our overall business activity. During fiscal 2011, we experienced an increase in the age of our receivables. This situation was due primarily to a change in our customer and business mix, combined with certain customers implementing internal system and process changes which has contributed to delays in processing our receivables. We believe this situation does not present a significant risk to the Company’s cash flows.  

Page 39  

Table of Contents 

We used $801.8 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2011. This compares to $398.5 million and $93.1 million during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $403.4 million increase in cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due to increased business acquisition activity. During fiscal 2011, we acquired TechTeam, Sula, DSWA, a controlling interest in CES, the Aker Entities, and two other, smaller niche engineering and design firms.  

Additions to property and equipment used $98.7 million of cash and cash equivalents during fiscal 2011 as compared to $49.1 million used during the fiscal 2010. Included in fiscal 2011 additions to property and equipment is $49.1 million related to the purchase of an office building we use in our operations and the associated equipment and furniture.  

Our financing activities resulted in net cash inflows of $556.9 million during fiscal 2011. This compares to net cash inflows of $95.6 million during fiscal 2010 and net cash outflows of $39.0 million during fiscal 2009. The $461.3 million net increase in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due primarily to a net, $446.3 million increase in the Company’s overall short and long-term borrowing activities. Also contributing to the increase in cash flows from financing activities in fiscal 2011 as compared to the previous year is the change in classification of other deferred liabilities. Prior to fiscal 2011, the Company treated the effects on cash flows from changes in its other deferred liabilities as effects from financing activities. During fiscal 2011, the Company concluded that treating such changes as relating to operating activities was preferable. The Company also concluded that this change in presentation was not quantitatively or qualitatively material.  

We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations, support our acquisition strategy, and service our debt for the next twelve months. Although borrowings under our $290.0 million, unsecured, revolving credit facility classified previously as long-term debt became current during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 (the facility expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2012), we nevertheless had $905.6 million in cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2011, compared to $938.8 million at October 1, 2010. In addition, we are actively negotiating a renewal of our credit facilities with several banks and other institutions, and we believe we will successfully complete the negotiations early in fiscal 2012. Our consolidated working capital position at September 30, 2011 was $1.1 billion; a decrease of $428.3 million from October 1, 2010. Additionally, there was $89.5 million of borrowing capacity available at September 30, 2011 under our $290.0 million revolving credit facility. We believe that the remaining capacity, terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, combined with cash on-hand and the other committed and uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We are party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off-balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

New Accounting Pronouncements  

In September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2011-09—Compensation-Retirement Benefits-Multiemployer Plans. ASU 2011-09 amends Topic 715-80 of the FASB’s Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) and requires employers to provide additional, separate disclosures for multiemployer pension plans and other multiemployer postretirement benefit plans. The amendments in this ASU require an employer to provide additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. The amended disclosures provide users with more detailed information about an employer’s involvement in multiemployer pension plans, including: disclosing: (i) the significant multiemployer plans in which an employer participates; (ii) the level of an employer’s participation in the significant multiemployer plans, including the employer’s contributions made to the plans and an indication of whether the employer’s contributions represent more than 5 percent of the total contributions made to the plan by all contributing employers; (iii) information regarding the financial health of the significant multiemployer plans, including an indication of the funded status, whether funding improvement plans are pending or implemented, and whether the plan has imposed surcharges on the contributions to the plan; (iv) the nature of the employer commitments to the plan, including when the collective-bargaining agreements that require contributions to the significant plans are set to expire and whether those agreements require minimum contributions to be made to the plans. The current recognition and measurement guidance for an employer’s participation in a multiemployer plan requires that an employer recognize its required contribution to the plan as pension or other postretirement benefit cost for the period and recognize a liability for any contributions due at the reporting date. That guidance is unchanged by this ASU. ASU 2011-09 is effective for annual periods for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011-09, if any, on its consolidated financial statements.  

Page 40  

Table of Contents 

Also in September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08—Intangibles-Goodwill and Other. ASU 2011-08 amends Topic 350 of the ASC and simplifies how entities test goodwill for possible impairment. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. Under this ASU, an entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. ASU 2011-08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011-08, if any, on its consolidated financial statements.  

In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05—Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011-05 amends Topic 220 of the ASC and provides that an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. The provisions of ASU 2011-05 will be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2011-05, if any, on its consolidated financial statements.  

In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-13—Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends certain guidance in ASC 605-25. ASU 2009-13 requires entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. The amendments eliminate the residual method of revenue allocation and require revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method. ASU 2009-13 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2009-13, if any, on its consolidated financial statements.  

 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK