PART I*  

 ITEM 1.  BUSINESS  

 INTRODUCTION  

Overview  

American Express Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“American Express,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”), is a leading global payments and travel company. Our principal products and services are charge and credit payment card products and travel-related services offered to consumers and businesses around the world. We were founded in 1850 as a joint stock association. We were incorporated in 1965 as a New York corporation.  

Our headquarters are located in New York, New York in lower Manhattan. We also have offices in other locations in North America, as well as throughout the world.  

During 2007, we realigned our reportable operating segments to reflect the reorganization of our businesses into two customer-focused groups—the Global Consumer Group and the Global Business-to-Business Group. Accordingly, U.S. Card Services and International Card Services are aligned within the Global Consumer Group and Global Commercial Services and Global Network & Merchant Services are aligned within the Global Business-to-Business Group.  

Securities Exchange Act Reports and Additional Information  

We maintain an Investor Relations Web site on the Internet at http://ir.americanexpress.com. We make available free of charge, on or through this Web site, our annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). To access these, just click on the “SEC Filings” link under the caption “Financial Information & Filings” found on our Investor Relations homepage.  

You can also access our Investor Relations Web site through our main Web site at www.americanexpress.com by clicking on the “About American Express” link, which is located at the bottom of our homepage. Information contained on our Investor Relations Web site and our main Web site is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

2007 Highlights  

Compared with 2006, we delivered:  

   •    revenues net of interest expense of $27.7 billion, up 10% from $25.2 billion;  

   •    income from continuing operations of $4.0 billion, up 12% from $3.6 billion;  

   •    net income of $4.0 billion up 8% from $3.7 billion;  

   •    diluted earnings per share based on income from continuing operations of $3.39, up 16% from $2.92;  

 * Some of the statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. You can identify forward-looking statements by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “optimistic,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “likely,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue” or other similar expressions. We discuss certain factors that affect our business and operations and that may cause our actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” below. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.  

1  

   •    diluted earnings per share based on net income of $3.36, up 12% from $2.99; and  

   •    return on average equity of 37%, compared with 35%.  

This strong performance was tempered by events at the end of the year, when the Company began to feel the effects of the weakening U.S. economy as cardmember spending slowed and past-due and write-off rates in U.S. Card Services increased. These trends led us to increase credit-related reserves in the fourth quarter and to adopt a more cautious view for 2008.  

For a complete discussion of our 2007 financial results, including financial information regarding each of our reportable operating segments, see pages 26 -113 of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated herein by reference. For a summary of the Company and our reportable operating segments, and a discussion of our principal sources of revenue, see pages 26-29 and pages 72-75, respectively, of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders.  

On September 18, 2007, we entered into an agreement to sell our international banking subsidiary, American Express Bank Ltd. (“AEBL”) and American Express International Deposit Company (“AEIDC”), a subsidiary that issues investment certificates to AEBL’s customers, to Standard Chartered PLC for the approximate value of $1.1 billion, subject to certain regulatory approvals. This transaction is described in more detail below and on pages 27-28 under the caption “Financial Review” and Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80 of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders, which descriptions are incorporated herein by reference.  

On November 7, 2007, we announced that we had entered into an agreement with Visa, Inc., Visa USA, and Visa International (collectively “Visa”) to remove Visa and certain of its member banks as defendants in the Company’s lawsuit against MasterCard International, Inc. (“MasterCard”), Visa and their member banks. The lawsuit alleges MasterCard, Visa and their member banks illegally blocked the Company from the bank-issued card business in the United States. The agreement has been approved by Visa USA’s member banks. For additional information about this settlement agreement please see “Corporate Matters” within “Legal Proceedings” below.  

Products and Services  

The Company’s Global Consumer Group and Global Business-to-Business Group provide a variety of products and services worldwide.  

The Global Consumer Group offers a range of products and services including:  

   •    charge and lending (i.e., credit) card products for consumers and small businesses worldwide;  

   •    consumer travel services; and  

   •    stored value products such as Travelers Cheques and prepaid products.  

The Business-to-Business Group provides, among other products and services:  

   •    business travel, corporate cards and other expense management products and services;  

   •    network services and merchant acquisition and merchant processing for the Company’s network partners and proprietary payments businesses; and  

   •    point-of-sale, back-office, and marketing products and services for merchants.  

In certain countries we have granted licenses to partially-owned affiliates and unaffiliated entities to offer some of these products and services.  

2  

The Company’s various products and services are sold globally to diverse customer groups, including consumers, small businesses, middle-market companies, large corporations, and banking and financial institutions. These products and services are sold through various channels including direct mail, the Internet, employee and independent third party sales forces and direct response advertising.  

Our general purpose card network, card issuing and merchant acquiring and processing businesses are global in scope. We are a world leader in providing charge and credit cards to consumers, small businesses and corporations. These cards include cards issued by American Express as well as cards issued by third-party banks and other institutions that are accepted on the American Express network (collectively, “Cards”). Our Cards permit Cardmembers to charge purchases of goods and services in most countries around the world at the millions of merchants that accept cards bearing our logo. We added a net total of 8.4 million Cards in 2007, bringing total worldwide Cards-in-force to 86.4 million (including Cards issued by third parties). In 2007, our worldwide billed business (spending on American Express® Cards, including Cards issued by third parties) was $647.3 billion.  

Our business as a whole has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations, although travel sales tend to be highest in the second and fourth quarters; Travelers Cheque sales and Travelers Cheques outstanding tend to be greatest each year in the summer months, peaking in the third quarter; American Express® Gift Card sales are highest in the months of November and December; and Card billed business tends to be moderately higher in the fourth quarter than in other quarters.  

Spend-Centric Model is Competitive Advantage  

We believe that our “spend-centric” business model (which focuses on generating revenues primarily by driving spending on our Cards and secondarily by finance charges and fees) has significant competitive advantages. Average spending per Card, which is substantially higher for us versus our competitors, represents greater value to merchants in the form of loyal customers and higher sales. This enables us to earn a premium discount rate and thereby invest in greater value-added services for merchants and Cardmembers. As a result of the higher revenues generated from higher spending, we have the flexibility to offer more attractive rewards, other incentives to Cardmembers and targeted marketing programs for merchants, which in turn create an incentive for Cardmembers to spend more on their Cards. This business model, along with our closed loop network, in which we are both the card issuer and, in most instances, the merchant acquirer, gives us a competitive advantage that we seek to leverage to provide more value to Cardmembers, merchants and Card issuing partners.  

The American Express Brand  

Our brand and its attributes—trust, security, integrity, quality and customer service—are key assets of the Company. We continue to focus on our brand by educating employees about these attributes and by incorporating them into our programs, products and services. Our brand has been rated one of the most valuable brands in the world in published studies, and we believe it provides us with a significant competitive advantage. We believe our brand and its attributes are critical to our success, and we invest heavily in managing, marketing and promoting it. (Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred, with the exception of brand advertising, which is reflected in the Global Network & Merchant Services segment.) In addition, we place significant importance on trademarks, service marks and patents, and diligently protect our intellectual property rights around the world.  

 GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES  

The Global Network & Merchant Services (“GNMS”) segment operates a global general-purpose charge and credit card network, which includes both proprietary Cards and Cards issued under network partnership agreements. It also manages merchant services globally, which includes signing merchants to accept Cards as well as processing and settling card transactions for those merchants. This segment also offers merchants point-of-sale and back-office products, services, and marketing programs.  

3  

Cards bearing our logo are issued by our principal operating subsidiary, American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. (“TRS”), and certain of its subsidiaries, and also by third-party institutions, and are accepted on our global card network at all merchant locations worldwide that accept American Express-branded Cards. In addition, depending on the product, Cards bearing our logo are generally accepted at ATM locations worldwide that accept Cards. TRS and its subsidiaries issue the vast majority of Cards on our network.  

Our Global Network Services (“GNS”) business establishes and maintains relationships with banks and other institutions around the world who issue Cards and, in certain countries, acquire local merchants on the American Express network. GNS is a critical asset in broadening the Cardmember and merchant base for our network worldwide. Our Global Merchant Services (“GMS”) business provides us with access to rich transaction data through our closed loop network, which encompasses relationships with both the Cardmember and the merchant. This capability enables us to acquire new merchants, deepen relationships with existing merchant customers, process transactions, and provide targeted marketing and other value-added services to merchants in our network.  

A key asset of our network is the American Express brand, which is one of the world’s most highly recognized and respected.  

Global Network Services   

We have been pursuing since May 1996 a strategy, through our GNS business, of inviting U.S. banks and other institutions to issue Cards on the American Express network, building on a business strategy we had implemented successfully in a number of countries outside the United States, where we have many banks and other financial institutions issuing Cards on the American Express network. By leveraging our global infrastructure and the appeal of the American Express brand, we aim to broaden our Cardmember and merchant base for our network worldwide. Our GNS business has established more than 117 card issuing and/or merchant acquiring arrangements with banks and other institutions in 125 countries.  

In 2007, GNS signed 12 new partners to issue Cards on the American Express network. Additionally, GNS partners launched over 140 new products during 2007, bringing the total number of American Express-branded GNS partner products to approximately 680.  

GNS focuses on partnering with qualified third-party banks and other financial institutions that choose to issue Cards accepted on our global network. Although we customize our network arrangements to the particular market and our partner’s requirements, as well as to our strategic plans in that marketplace, all GNS arrangements are designed to help issuers develop products for their highest-spending and most affluent customers and to support the value of American Express® Card acceptance to merchants. We choose to partner with institutions who share a core set of attributes such as commitment to high quality standards, strong marketing expertise and compatibility with the American Express brand, and we require adherence to our product, brand and service standards.*  

With approximately 680 different Card products launched on our network so far by our bank partners, GNS is an increasingly important business that is strengthening our brand visibility around the world, driving more transaction volume onto our merchant network and increasing the number of merchants accepting the American Express® Card. GNS enables us to expand our global presence without having to invest large amounts of resources, as our GNS partners already have established attractive customer bases they can target with American Express-branded products. Since 1999, Cards-in-force issued by GNS partners have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 28%, and totaled 20 million Cards at the end of 2007. Outside the United States, 66% of new Cards issued in 2007 were Cards issued by one of our GNS partners. Spending on these GNS Cards has grown at a compound annual rate of 27% since 1999. Year over year spending growth in 2007 was 49%, with total spending equal to $53 billion.  

 * The use of the term “partner” or “partnering” does not mean or imply a formal legal partnership.  

4  

GNS Arrangements  

Although the structures and details for each of the GNS arrangements vary, all of them generate revenues for us from the Card transaction volumes they drive on the American Express network. Gross revenues we receive per dollar spent on a Card issued by a GNS partner are lower than those from our proprietary Card issuing business. However, because the GNS partner is responsible for most of the operating costs and risk of its Card issuing business, our operating expenses and credit losses are lower than those in our proprietary Card issuing business. The GNS business model generates an attractive earnings stream and risk profile that requires a lower level of capital support. The return on equity in our GNS business can thus be significantly higher than that of our proprietary Card issuing business. Because the majority of GNS costs are fixed, the GNS business is highly scalable. GNS partners benefit from their association with the American Express brand and their ability to gain attractive revenue streams and expand and differentiate their product offerings with innovative marketing programs.  

Our GNS arrangements fall into the following three main categories: Independent Operator Arrangements, Network Card License Agreements and Joint Venture Arrangements.  

Independent Operator Arrangements  

The first type of GNS arrangement is known as an independent operator (“IO”) arrangement. As of the end of 2007, we had 59 of these arrangements around the world. We pursue these arrangements to expand the presence of the American Express network throughout the world, in markets in which we do not offer a proprietary local currency Card. Under this type of arrangement, the partner’s local presence and relationships help us enhance the impact of our brand in the market, reach merchant coverage goals more quickly, and operate at economic scale and cost levels that would be difficult for us to achieve on our own. Subject to meeting our standards, we license our IO bank partners to issue local currency Cards in their markets, including the classic Green, Gold and Platinum American Express® Cards. In addition, the majority of these partners serve as the merchant acquirer and processor for local merchants. American Express retains the relationship with multi-national merchants. Our IO partners own the customer relationships and credit risk for the Cards they issue, and make the decisions about which customers will be issued Cards. GNS generates revenues in IO arrangements from Card licensing fees, royalties on Cardmember billings, foreign exchange conversion revenue, royalties on merchant acquisition volume, discount revenue and, in some partnerships, royalties on net spread revenue. Our IO partners are responsible for transaction authorization, billing and pricing, Cardmember and merchant servicing and funding Card receivables for their Cards and payables for their merchants.  

We bear the risk arising from the IO partner’s potential failure to meet its settlement obligations to us. We mitigate this risk by partnering with independent operators that we believe are financially sound and will meet their obligations, and by monitoring their financial health, their compliance with the terms of their relationship with us and the political, economic and regulatory environment in which they operate. In addition, we generally require IO partners to post a letter of credit, bank guarantee or other collateral to reduce this risk.  

Examples of countries where we have entered into IO arrangements include Brazil, Russia, China, Ecuador, Greece, South Korea, Pakistan, Croatia, Peru, Portugal and Vietnam. In 2007, we sold our local proprietary Card issuing business in the Philippines and our local merchant acquiring business in Russia. Through our IO partnerships, we believe we can accelerate growth in Cardmember spending, Cards-in-force and merchant acceptance in these countries.  

Network Card License Arrangements  

The second type of GNS arrangement is known as a network card license (“NCL”). At the end of 2007, we had 54 of these arrangements in place. We pursue these arrangements to increase our brand presence and gain market share in markets in which we have a proprietary Card issuing business, and in a few cases those in which we also have IO partners. In an NCL arrangement, we grant the third-party financial institution a license to issue   

5  

 American Express-branded Cards. The NCL issuer owns the customer relationships for all Cards it issues, provides customer service to its Cardmembers, transaction authorization, billing and credit management, is responsible for the marketing of the Cards, and designs the Card product features (including rewards and other incentives for Cardmembers), subject to meeting certain standards. We operate the merchant network, route and process Card transactions from the merchant’s point-of-sale through submission to the issuer, and settle with issuers. The NCL is the type of arrangement that we have implemented with banks in the United States.  

GNS’ revenues in NCL arrangements are driven by a variety of factors, including the level of Cardmember spending, royalties, currency conversions and licensing fees paid by the partner and fees charged to the Card issuer based on charge volume, and our provision of value-added services such as Cardmember insurance products and other Card features and benefits for the issuer’s Cards. As indicated above, the NCL issuer bears the credit risk for the issued Cards, as well as the Card marketing and acquisition costs, Cardmember fraud risks and costs of rewards and other loyalty initiatives. We bear the risk arising from the NCL partner’s potential failure to meet its settlement obligations to us. We mitigate this risk by partnering with issuers that we believe are financially sound and will meet their obligations, and by monitoring their financial health, their compliance with the terms of their relationship with us and the political, economic and regulatory environment in which they operate. In addition, we generally require NCL issuers to post a letter of credit, bank guarantee or other collateral to reduce this risk.  

Examples of NCL arrangements include our relationships with Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. and Bank of America in the United States, Lloyds TSB Bank in the United Kingdom and Westpac Banking Corporation in Australia.  

Joint Venture Arrangements  

The third type of GNS arrangement is a joint venture (“JV”). We have utilized this type of arrangement in Switzerland, Belgium and several other countries. In these markets, TRS joins with a third party to establish a separate business in which TRS has a significant ownership stake. The JV typically signs new merchants to the American Express network and issues local currency Cards that carry our logo. In a JV arrangement, the JV assumes the Cardmember credit risk and bears the operating and marketing costs. Unlike the other two types of GNS arrangements, we share management, risk, and profit and loss responsibility with our JV partners. Income is generated by discount revenues, card fees and net spread revenues. The economics of the JV are similar to our proprietary Card issuing business, which we discuss below under “U.S. Card Services,” and we receive a portion of the JV’s income depending on the level of our ownership interest.  

GNS Business Highlights  

Outside the United States, in 2007, we signed a number of agreements to enhance our presence in markets such as China, Japan, and Brazil, and further expanded our global presence into new markets.  

Some of the highlights of our GNS business outside the United States in 2007 include the:  

   •    Launch of the Airmiles Duo product in the United Kingdom with Lloyds TSB;  

   •    Introduction of the ICBC Staples Corporate American Express Card, the first American Express branded co-brand corporate card in China, and the ICBC Hainan Airlines American Express Card, the first American Express branded airline co-brand card in China with our partner the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC);  

   •    Entry into a new card issuing partnership with China CITIC Bank and the launch of the first product under this partnership;  

   •    Signing of an agreement with Banco Itau, one of the leading banks in Brazil, to issue and market cards on the American Express network;  

6  

   •    Entry into a new card issuing partnership with GE Consumer Finance in Japan (a Japanese subsidiary of GE Money, a unit of General Electric Company), and the launch of the first products under this partnership; and  

   •    Launch of the SunMiles American Express Cards, a portfolio of four new airline co-brand cards with Cyprus Airways issued by the Bank of Cyprus.  

In contrast to the situation outside the United States, where banks and other qualified institutions have issued Cards on our network for many years, until 2004 no major U.S. banks had issued Cards in the United States on the American Express global network. This situation was the result of rules and policies of Visa U.S.A. and Visa International Service Association (together, “Visa”) and MasterCard Incorporated and MasterCard International, Inc. (together, “MasterCard”) in the United States, which mandated expulsion of members that issued American Express-branded Cards. No bank was willing to risk forfeiting membership in Visa and/or MasterCard (collectively, the “bankcard associations”) to issue cards on our network.  

However, as a consequence of the decision in a lawsuit filed in October 1998 by the U.S. Department of Justice against Visa and MasterCard in which such rules and policies were found to violate the U.S. antitrust laws, these rules and policies were finally repealed in late 2004. The Supreme Court’s decision not to hear Visa’s and MasterCard’s appeal of the lower courts’ rulings against them cleared the way for implementation of the trial court’s order requiring the repeal of the illegal rules and policies. We view this decision as a major victory for U.S. consumers as well as U.S. banks because it opened the door to more vigorous network competition and more innovative card products and services.  

For American Express, the conclusion of the litigation brought by the Justice Department meant that we were able to extend our network to other card issuers in the United States, just as we have done internationally. Building a network business in the United States that operates alongside our proprietary Card business provides us with new and substantial opportunities for growth. We have acted on this development by entering into several GNS arrangements with financial institutions in the United States, which have all launched products in the marketplace. These companies include MBNA (which subsequently merged with Bank of America), Bank of America, Citibank (South Dakota), N.A., HSBC Bank Nevada N.A., Barclays, USAA Federal Savings Bank and GE Money Bank.  

Some of the highlights of our GNS business in the United States in 2007 include the:  

    •    Launch of the Bank of America Accolades™ American Express Card, the first premium credit card designed exclusively for Bank of America’s affluent, wealthy and ultra-wealthy clients served through Premier Banking & Investments™, The Private Bank of Bank of America, and its extension, Family Wealth Advisors; and  

   •    Launch of the ultra-premium Citi Chairman American Express Card.  

In November 2004, we filed a lawsuit against Visa, MasterCard and certain of their member banks seeking monetary damages resulting from the illegal rules that were struck down in the U.S. Department of Justice lawsuit discussed above. On November 7, 2007, we announced that we had entered into an agreement with Visa to remove Visa and certain of its member banks as defendants in the lawsuit. Under terms of the settlement agreement reached with Visa, we will receive an aggregate maximum payment of up to $2.25 billion. MasterCard remains the sole defendant in the American Express case. (You can read more about this lawsuit and the Visa settlement in the “Legal Proceedings” section of this report below.)  

Global Merchant Services  

We operate a GMS business, which includes signing merchants to accept Cards, accepting and processing Card transactions, and paying merchants that accept Cards for purchases made by Cardmembers with Cards (“Charges”). We also provide point-of-sale and back-office products and services and marketing programs to merchants, leveraging the capabilities provided by our closed loop structure.  

7  

Our objective is for Cardmembers to be able to use the Card wherever and however they desire, as well as to increase merchant coverage in key geographic areas and in selected new industries that have not traditionally accepted general purpose credit and charge cards as a means of payment. We add new merchants to our network through a number of sales channels: a proprietary sales force, third-party sales agents, strategic alliances with banks and processors, the Internet, telemarketing and inbound “Want to Honor” calls (i.e., merchants desiring to accept the Card contacting us directly). As discussed in the “Global Network Services” section, our IO partners and joint ventures add new local merchants to the American Express network outside the United States.  

Since the early 1990s, we have significantly expanded the number of merchants that accept our Card products as well as the kinds of businesses that accept the Card. In recent years, we have focused our efforts on increasing the use of our Cards for everyday spending. In 1990, 64% of our U.S. billings came from the travel and entertainment sectors and 36% came from retail and other sectors. That proportion has now been more than reversed. In 2007, U.S. non-travel and entertainment billings represented over 69% of the U.S. billed business on American Express® Cards. This shift resulted from the growth, over time, in the types of merchants that began to accept charge and credit cards in response to consumers’ increased desire to use these cards for more of their purchases, and our focus on expanding Card acceptance to meet Cardmembers’ needs.  

During 2007, we continued our efforts to encourage consumers to use the Card for everyday spending. We increased the number and types of merchants in retail and everyday spending categories that accept the Card, such as quick-serve restaurants, mass transit, healthcare and recurring billing merchants.  

In addition, we also continued our drive to bring Card acceptance to industries where cash or checks are the predominant form of payment, including payments for residential rent, residence/destination clubs and private jet travel. In addition, we have made headway in promoting Card acceptance for Business-to-Business payments in industries such as pharmaceuticals, wholesale foods and consumer packaged goods. As we penetrate these industries, there is the potential to increase our average Cardmember spending.  

Globally, acceptance of general purpose charge and credit cards continues to increase, including among merchants in industries that have not traditionally accepted charge and credit cards. As in prior years, during 2007, we continued to grow merchant acceptance of Cards around the world and to refine our approach to calculating merchant coverage in accordance with changes in the marketplace. Management estimates that, as of the end of 2007, our merchant network in the United States accommodated more than 90% of our Cardmembers’ general purpose charge and credit card spending, and our international merchant network as a whole accommodated approximately 80% of our Cardmembers’ general purpose charge and credit card spending. These percentages are based on comparing our Cardmembers’ spending on our network currently with our estimate of what our Cardmembers would spend on our network if all merchants that accept general purpose credit and charge cards accepted American Express® Cards.  

We earn “discount” revenue from fees charged to merchants for accepting Cards as payment for goods or services sold. The merchant discount is the fee charged to the merchant for accepting Cards and is generally expressed as a percentage of the amount charged on a Card. The merchant discount is generally deducted from the amount of the payment that the “merchant acquirer” (in most cases, TRS or one of its subsidiaries) pays to a merchant for Charges submitted. A merchant acquirer is the entity that contracts for Card acceptance with the merchant, accepts transactions from the merchant, pays the merchant for these transactions and submits the transactions to the American Express network, which submits the transactions to the appropriate Card issuer. When a Cardmember presents the Card for payment, the merchant creates a record of charge for the transaction and submits it to the merchant acquirer for payment. To the extent that TRS or one of its subsidiaries is the merchant acquirer, the merchant discount is recorded by us as discount revenue at the time the transaction is received by us from the merchant.  

Where we act as the merchant acquirer and the Card presented at a merchant is issued by a third-party bank or financial institution, such as in the case of our GNS partners, we will make financial settlement to the   

8  

 merchant and receive the discount revenue. In our role as the operator of the Card network, we will also receive financial settlement from the Card issuer, who receives an issuer rate (i.e., the individually negotiated amount that Card issuers receive for transactions charged on our network with Cards that they issue, which is usually expressed as a percentage of the charged amount). The difference between the discount revenue (received by us in the form of the merchant discount) and the issuer rate received by the Card issuer generates a return to us. Where we are the Card issuer and the merchant acquirer is a third-party bank or financial institution (which can be the case in a country in which the IO is the local merchant acquirer), we receive an individually negotiated issuer rate in our settlement with the merchant acquirer, which is recorded by us as discount revenue. By contrast with networks such as Visa and MasterCard, there is no collectively-set interchange rate on the American Express network.  

The following diagrams depict the relationships among the parties in a point-of-sale transaction effected on the American Express network where we act as both the Card issuer and merchant acquirer (the “3-Party Model”) and under an NCL arrangement where third-party financial institutions act as Card issuers (the “NCL Model”):  

The merchant discount rate that we charge is principally determined by the value we deliver to the merchant and generally represents a premium over other networks. We deliver greater value to the merchant through higher spending Cardmembers relative to cards issued on competing card networks, the overall higher volume of spending by all Cardmembers, marketing expertise, and Cardmembers’ insistence on using their Cards when enrolled in rewards or other Card loyalty programs, including Cardmembers who are part of our Corporate Card program.  

The merchant discount rate varies, among other factors, with the industry in which the merchant does business, the Charge volume, the timing and method of payment to the merchant, the method of submission of Charges and, in certain instances, the geographic scope of the Card acceptance agreement signed with us (local or global) and the Charge amount.  

9  

In 2007, as in prior years, we experienced some reduction in our global weighted average merchant discount rate, principally reflecting the net impact of selective repricing initiatives, changes in the mix of business, regional market pressures and volume-related pricing adjustments. We expect that the effect of these factors will likely continue to result in some erosion over time of the weighted average merchant discount rate, particularly outside the United States.  

While most merchants understand our merchant discount rate pricing in relation to the value provided, we do encounter a relatively small number of merchants that accept our Cards, but tell their customers that they prefer to accept another type of payment and, consequently, suppress use of the Card. We respond to this issue aggressively to ensure that our Cardmembers are able to use their Card where and when they want to and to protect the American Express brand. We have made progress by: concentrating on acquiring merchants where Cardmembers want to use the Card; continuing to enhance the value we provide by programs such as My WishList and American Express Selects®, which enable merchants to gain valuable exposure and additional sales by providing exclusive offers and experiences to American Express Cardmembers; providing better and earlier communication of our value proposition; and, when necessary, cancelling merchants who suppress the use of our Card products.  

In the case of My WishList, a popular seasonal limited e-tail Web site we developed in the U.S. in conjunction with merchant partners, we provide Cardmembers with opportunities to buy a limited number of sought-after items, such as automobiles, trips, electronics and jewelry, and attractive travel and lifestyle experiences, at a significant discount from their retail prices, as well as access to numerous offers from top brands. My WishList brings attention to the merchant partners and allows them to reach out to our Cardmembers. Through American Express Selects®, we make available to our Cardmembers high quality shopping, dining and travel values from merchants all over the world, and these merchants have an opportunity to reach out to our Cardmembers. American Express Selects® is a global platform available to American Express Cardmembers and merchants.  

Merchant satisfaction is a key goal of our Global Merchant Services business. We focus on understanding and addressing factors that influence merchant satisfaction, including developing and executing innovative programs that increase Card usage at merchants, using technology resources, enhancing operational efficiencies and merchants’ ease of doing business with us, applying our closed loop capabilities and deep marketing expertise, and strengthening our relationships with merchants through an expanding roster of services that help them meet their business goals. In 2007 and early 2008 we announced the signing of agreements with First Data Merchant Services Corporation, NOVA Information Systems, and Heartland Payment Systems allowing them to offer Card acceptance as part of an integrated solution for small- and medium-sized merchants. Under these arrangements, First Data Merchant Services Corporation, NOVA Information Systems, and Heartland Payment Systems will provide payment processing services to merchants on our behalf for Card transactions, while we will retain the acceptance contract with participating merchants, establish merchant pricing, and receive the same transactional information we always have received.  

We also offer our merchant customers a full range of point-of-sale solutions, including integrated point-of-sale terminals and direct links that allow merchants to accept American Express® Cards, as well as bankcards, debit cards and checks, and contactless point-of-sale terminals that enable merchants to accept contactless payment products including our ExpressPay from American Express® products. Virtually all proprietary point-of-sale solutions support direct processing (i.e., direct connectivity) to American Express, which can lower a merchant’s cost of Card acceptance and enhance payment efficiency.  

ExpressPay from American Express®, a contactless payment feature, is designed to be a fast, easy-to-use alternative for making everyday purchases at merchants where speed and convenience is important. ExpressPay is now accepted at over 30,000 locations in the United States, including top quick-service restaurant, movie theater, drug store and convenience store chains. ExpressPay, powered by radio-frequency technology, is currently available in a key-fob form and has also been introduced within several Card products. In 2007, we   

10  

 expanded merchant coverage of ExpressPay from American Express® through the entry into an agreement with Tully’s Coffee Corporation, a leading specialty coffee retailer with stores in Washington, California, Idaho and Arizona, and the expansion of merchant acceptance through Office Depot’s 1,200 nationwide locations.  

We continue to focus our efforts on the recurring billing industry through Automatic Bill Payment, a service that allows merchants to bill Cardmembers on a regular basis for recurring charges such as insurance premiums, newspaper subscriptions, health club memberships, commutation costs and cable television service. We have also made modifications to our host authorization system to approve more transactions and reduce Cardmember inconvenience at the point-of-sale without a corresponding increase in fraud or credit losses.  

Wherever we manage both the acquiring relationship with merchants and the Card issuing side of the business, there is a “closed loop,” which distinguishes our network from the bankcard networks in that we have access to information at both ends of the Card transaction. We maintain a direct relationship with both our Cardmembers and our merchants, and we handle all key aspects of those relationships. Our relationships allow us to analyze information on Cardmembers’ spend. This enables us to provide targeted marketing for merchants and special offers to Cardmembers through a variety of channels, subject to compliance with our privacy policy and legal requirements. We protect the confidentiality of this data, and comply with strict privacy, firewall and applicable legal requirements.  

We work closely with our Card issuing and merchant acquiring bank partners to maintain key elements of this closed loop, which permits them to customize marketing efforts, deliver greater value to their Cardmembers and help us to direct increased business to merchants who accept the Card.  

As the merchant acquirer, we have certain exposures that arise if a billing dispute between a Cardmember and a merchant is settled in favor of the Cardmember. Drivers of this liability are returns in the normal course of business, disputes over fraudulent charges, the quality or non-delivery of goods and services and billing errors. Typically, we offset the amount due to the Cardmember against payments for the merchant’s current or future Charge submissions. We can realize losses when a merchant’s offsetting charge submissions cease, such as when the merchant commences a bankruptcy proceeding or goes out of business. We actively monitor our merchant base to assess the risk of this exposure. When appropriate, we will take action to reduce the net exposure to a given merchant by requiring a parent company guarantee or letter of credit, holding cash reserves funded through Charge payable holdbacks from a merchant, lengthening the time between when the merchant submits a Charge for payment and when we pay the merchant or implementing other appropriate risk management tools. We also establish reserves on our balance sheet for these contingencies.  

With the increase in electronic transmission of credit card transaction data over merchants’ point-of-sale systems, the necessity for merchants and merchant processors to secure this data against accidental or intentional compromise using a standard protocol that applies to all card types, became clear to American Express and the other major card networks. In 2006, in order to strengthen the security practices of merchants and payment processing firms and to secure payment account data in a globally consistent manner, we and Discover Financial Services, JCB, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa formed PCI Security Standards Council, LLC (“PCI SSC”), an independent standards-setting organization to manage the ongoing evolution of the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard, which focuses on improving payment card account security throughout the transaction process. By establishing PCI SSC to manage the PCI Data Security Standard, we and the other founders have developed a common standard that is more accessible and efficient for participants in the payment card industry. All our merchants and service providers that store, process and transmit payment card data are required to comply with the PCI Data Security Standard. PCI SSC is dedicated to driving greater education, awareness and adoption of the PCI Data Security Standard to ensure that all stakeholders involved in the payment process conduct their business responsibly.  

In some markets outside the United States, particularly in Asia, third-party processors and some bankcard acquirers have begun to offer merchants the capability of converting credit card transactions from the local   

11  

 currency to the currency of the cardholder’s residence (i.e., the cardholder’s billing currency) at the point-of-sale, and submitting the transaction in the cardholder’s billing currency, thus bypassing the traditional foreign currency conversion process of the card network. This practice is known as “dynamic currency conversion.” If a merchant utilizes a dynamic currency conversion process, the merchant and processor share any fee assessed or spread earned for converting the transaction at the point of sale, thus reducing or eliminating revenue for card issuers and card networks relating to the conversion of foreign charges to the cardholder’s billing currency. This practice is not widespread, and it is uncertain to what extent consumers will prefer to have foreign currency transactions converted by merchants in this way. Our policy generally requires merchants to submit Charges and be paid in the currency of the country in which the transaction occurs, and we convert the transaction to the Cardmember’s billing currency.  

GNMS—Competition  

Our global card network, including our Global Merchant Services and Global Network Services businesses, competes with other charge and credit card networks, including, among others, Visa, MasterCard, Diners Club (which, in the United States and Canada, has been folded into the network operated by MasterCard), Discover (primarily in the United States), and JCB Co., Ltd. (primarily in Asia). We are the third largest general purpose charge and credit card network based on charge volume, behind Visa and MasterCard, which are larger than we are in most markets. In addition, apart from such network services, a range of companies globally, including merchant acquirers and processors, carry out some activities similar to certain activities performed by our Global Merchant Services and Global Network Services businesses. No single entity participates on a global basis in the full range of activities that are encompassed by our closed loop business model.  

The principal competitive factors that affect the network and merchant service business include:  

   •    the number of Cards-in-force and amount of spending on these Cards;  

   •    the quantity and quality of the establishments where the Cards can be used;  

   •    the economic attractiveness to card issuers and merchant acquirers of participating in the network;  

   •    the success of marketing and promotional campaigns;  

   •    reputation and brand recognition;  

   •    innovation in systems, technology and product offerings;  

   •    the quality of customer service;  

   •    the security of Cardmember and merchant information;  

   •    the impact of existing litigations, legislation and government regulation; and  

   •    cost of Card acceptance relative to the value provided.  

Another aspect of network competition is the recent emergence and rapid growth of alternative payment mechanisms and systems, which include aggregators (such as PayPal), wireless payment technologies (including using mobile telephone networks to carry out transactions), pre-paid systems and systems linked to credit cards, and bank transfer models. In the United States, alternative payment vehicles continue to emerge that seek to re-direct online customers to payment systems based on ACH (automated clearing house, i.e., inter-bank transfer), and existing debit networks are making efforts to develop online PIN functionality, which could potentially reduce the relative use of charge and credit cards online.  

Some of our competitors have attempted to replicate our closed loop structure, such as Visa’s Visa Incentive Network. Although it remains to be seen how effective Visa will be, efforts by Visa and other card networks and payment providers to replicate the closed loop speak both to its continued value as well as the intense competitive environment in which we operate.  

12  

GNMS—Regulation  

Local regulations governing the issuance of charge and credit cards have not been a significant factor impacting our Global Network Services’ arrangements with banks and qualifying financial institutions, because such banks and institutions generally are already authorized to issue general purpose cards and, in the case of our IO arrangements, to operate merchant acquiring businesses. Accordingly, our GNS partners have generally not had difficulty in obtaining appropriate government authorization in the markets in which we have chosen to enter into GNS arrangements. As a network service provider to regulated U.S. banks, our GNS business is subject to review by certain federal bank regulators, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision. As the operator of a general purpose card network, we are also subject to the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”), which requires us to conduct due diligence on our GNS partners to ensure that they maintain sufficient anti-money laundering and “know your customer” programs to prevent our network from being used for money laundering or terrorist financing.  

In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation of card networks, including the fees merchants are charged to accept cards. Regulators in the United Kingdom, Poland, Germany, Spain, Hungary, the European Union (EU), Australia, Mexico, and Switzerland, among others, have conducted investigations into the way bankcard network members collectively set the “interchange,” which is the fee paid by the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in “four-party” payment networks, like Visa and MasterCard. The interchange fee is generally the largest component of the merchant service charge charged to merchants for bankcard debit and credit charges in these systems. By contrast, the American Express network does not have collectively-set interchange fees. Although the regulators’ focus has primarily been on Visa and MasterCard as the dominant card networks and their operations on a multilateral basis, antitrust actions and government regulation of the bankcard associations’ pricing could ultimately affect all networks. Lower interchange and/or merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue such as higher annual card fees, interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling back or eliminating rewards programs.  

In certain countries where antitrust actions or regulations have led our competitors to lower their fees, we have made adjustments to our pricing to merchants to reflect local competitive trends. For example, reductions in bankcard interchange mandated by the Reserve Bank of Australia reforms in 2003 have resulted in lower merchant discount rates for Visa and MasterCard acceptance. As a result of changes in the marketplace, we have reduced our own merchant discount rates in Australia although we have been able to increase billed business and the number of merchants accepting our Cards. In addition, under legislation enacted in Argentina, a merchant acquirer is required to charge the same merchant discount rate to all merchants in the same industry category, and merchant discount rates for credit cards cannot exceed 3%.  

In Europe, interchange is usually handled as a matter for the domestic competition law authority, as well as the European Commission. In its Final Report on the retail banking sector issued in January 2007, which included a review of the payment cards industry, including interchange fees, the European Commission appeared to favor competition law enforcement tools, rather than regulation of price levels, to address perceived issues of insufficient competition. The conclusions of the European Commission in its Final Report do not have the force of law, but may be used as the basis for future regulation or antitrust enforcement action in the EU Member States.  

In December 2007, the European Commission ruled that MasterCard’s multilateral interchange fees (MIF) for cross-border payment card transactions violate EC Treaty rules on restrictive business practices. MasterCard has indicated it will comply, although it is also lodging an appeal against the Commission’s findings. The ruling does not prevent MasterCard and its member banks from adopting an alternative MIF arrangement that can be proven to comply with EU Competition rules. However, based upon the information available to American Express, the Commission does not appear to have set out any particular methodology for how MIF should be calculated in a way that would comply with the rules. The Commission’s decision applies to cross-border consumer credit, charge and debit card transactions within the EU and to domestic transactions to which   

13  

 MasterCard has chosen to apply the cross-border MIF. Although the Commission’s investigation included commercial cards, the decision does not apply to commercial cards. The Commission is likely to produce another decision regarding MIF for commercial card transactions.  

In 2002, the Commission granted an exemption to Visa regarding its MIFs. This exemption expired on December 31, 2007. The Commission has indicated that the MasterCard decision should “provide Visa with guidance for the way ahead,” although it stated that “every MIF must be examined on its own merits.”  

These developments may impact how the competition authorities in the Member States of the EU view domestic interchange. Earlier in 2007, for example, the competition regulator in Poland found insufficient basis for Visa and MasterCard interchange fees and ordered the associations and their members to stop their current interchange setting practices with immediate effect. The banks are appealing that decision.  

Regulators, including most recently the European Commission, have considered the industry practice of prohibiting merchants from passing the cost of merchant discount fees along to consumers through surcharges on  

card purchases. Although some countries, such as the United Kingdom, have for a number of years permitted merchants to levy a surcharge on credit card purchases, there has to date been a relatively low overall incidence of surcharging, as merchants do not want to risk offending customers or losing them to competitors that do not assess surcharges for credit card purchases. In its Final Report, the European Commission indicated that prohibiting surcharging appeared to restrict inter-network competition and may constitute a barrier to entry for alternative, non-cash payment instruments. In Australia, we have seen selective, but increasing merchant surcharging on our Cards in certain industries and, in some cases, on a basis that is greater than that applied to cards issued on the bankcard networks.  

The European Union has adopted a new legislative framework for electronic payment services, including cards, referred to as the Payment Services Directive. The Payment Services Directive prescribes common rules for licensing and supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business. The objective of the Payment Services Directive is to facilitate the creation of a single, internal payments market in the EU through harmonization of EU Member State laws governing payment services. The Payment Services Directive must be incorporated into the national law of each EU Member State by November 2009. By the end of April 2011, licensing will be required and supervision will commence for American Express’ card operations in the EU. One provision of the Payment Services Directive permits merchants to surcharge, subject to disclosure requirements, but also allows individual Member States to override this rule by prohibiting surcharging. The Payment Services Directive complements another European initiative, the Single Euro Payments Area (“SEPA”), which is an industry-led initiative with support from EU institutions. Among other changes, SEPA will involve the adoption of new, pan-European technical standards for cards and card transactions. All of the foregoing will entail costs to implement and maintain.  

In the United States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and various Federal Reserve Banks have been following developments on interchange and have held several conferences focused on interchange rates. While the Federal Reserve has expressed interest in monitoring this issue, it has not indicated the need to regulate interchange rates in the United States. In Congress, there have been several hearings on Visa/MasterCard interchange over the last two years, and at the request of Congress, the Government Accountability Office undertook a study of the cost of credit card acceptance to federal agencies. During 2007, there were also a number of bills proposed in individual state legislatures seeking to impose caps on credit card interchange or to prohibit card companies from charging merchant discount on the state tax portion of credit card purchases. Other proposals were aimed at increasing the transparency of card network rules for merchants. In addition, a number of bills were proposed to establish merchant liability for the costs of a data security breach of a merchant’s system or require merchants to adopt technical safeguards to protect sensitive card holder payment information. It is expected that Congressional hearings and similar proposed state legislation will continue during 2008. It is possible that some of these proposals could surface at the federal level as well. In the event that governmental or regulatory activity to limit interchange or merchant fees continues or increases, or state data security legislation is adopted, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected.  

14  

 U.S. CARD SERVICES  

As a significant part of its proprietary Card issuing business, TRS and its U.S. banking subsidiaries issue a wide range of Card products and services to consumers and small businesses in the United States. Our consumer travel business, which provides travel services to Cardmembers and other consumers, complements our core Card business, as does our Travelers Cheques and prepaid services business. The proprietary Card business offers a broad set of card products to attract our target customer base. Core elements of our strategy are:  

   •    focusing on acquiring and retaining high-spending, creditworthy Cardmembers across multiple groups;  

   •    designing Card products with features that appeal to specific customer segments;  

    •    the use of strong incentives to drive spending on our various Card products, including our Membership Rewards® program and other rewards features;  

    •    the use of loyalty programs such as Delta SkyMiles®, sponsored by our co-brand and other partners to drive spending;  

   •    the development and nurturing of wide-ranging relationships with co-brand and other partners;  

   •    promoting and using incentives for Cardmembers to use their Cards in new and expanded merchant categories, including for everyday spend and traditional cash and check categories; and  

   •    a multi-card strategy (having multiple Card products in customers’ wallets); and  

   •    high-quality customer service.  

American Express ranked highest in customer satisfaction among credit card companies in a study by J.D. Power and Associates, one of the world’s most respected consumer research firms. The study, which compared the 10 largest U.S. credit card issuers, looked at the key drivers of satisfaction: benefits and features, rewards, billing and payment processes, fees and rates, and problem resolution.  

Consumer and Small Business Services  

We offer individual consumer charge Cards such as the American Express® Card, the American Express® Gold Card, the Platinum Card®, and the ultra-premium Centurion® Card; revolving credit Cards such as Blue from American Express®, Blue Cash® Card from American Express and Blue Sky from American Express; and a variety of Cards sponsored by and co-branded with other corporations and institutions, such as the Delta SkyMiles® Credit Card from American Express, True Earnings® Card exclusively for Costco Members, Starwood Preferred Guest® Credit Card and JetBlue Card® from American Express.  

Charge Cards  

Our charge Cards, which carry no pre-set spending limits, are primarily designed as a method of payment and not as a means of financing purchases of goods or services. Charges are approved based on a variety of factors including a Cardmember’s current spending patterns, payment history, credit record, and financial resources. Cardmembers generally must pay the full amount billed each month, and no finance charges are assessed on the balance. Charge Card accounts that are past due are subject, in most cases, to a delinquency assessment and, if not brought to current status, may be cancelled. The no preset-spending limit and pay-in-full nature of these products attract high-spending Cardmembers who want to use a charge Card to facilitate larger payments.  

The charge Cards also offer flexible payment features to Cardmembers. The Sign & Travel® program gives qualified U.S. Cardmembers the option of extended payments for airline, cruise and certain travel charges that are purchased with our charge Cards. The Extended Payment Option offers qualified U.S. Cardmembers the option of extending payment for certain charges on the charge Card in excess of a specified amount.  

15  

Revolving Credit Cards  

We offer a variety of revolving credit Cards. These Cards have a range of different payment terms, grace periods and rate and fee structures. Since late 1994, our lending balance growth has been among the top tier of card issuers. Much of this growth has been due to the breadth of our lending products, such as the American Express One® Card, Blue from American Express®, Blue Cash® from American Express and the Delta SkyMiles® Credit Card from American Express, as well as the increased number of charge Cardmembers who have taken advantage of our “lending on charge” options (such as the Sign & Travel® and Extended Payment Option programs described above).  

Co-brand Cards  

We issue Cards under co-brand agreements with selected commercial firms in the United States. The competition among card issuers and networks for attractive co-brand card partnerships is quite intense because these partnerships can generate high-spending loyal cardholders. The duration of our co-brand arrangements generally ranges from five to ten years. Cardmembers earn rewards provided by the partners’ respective loyalty programs based upon their spending on the co-brand Cards, such as frequent flyer miles, hotel loyalty points and cash back. We make payments to our co-brand partners, which can be significant, based primarily on the amount of Cardmember spending and corresponding rewards earned on such spending and, under certain arrangements, on the number of accounts acquired and retained. We expense amounts due under co-brand arrangements in the month earned. Payment terms vary by arrangement, but are monthly or quarterly. Generally, once we make payment to the co-brand partner, the partner is solely liable for providing rewards to the Cardmember under the co-brand partner’s own loyalty program. As the issuer of the co-brand card, we retain all the credit risk with the Cardmember and bear the receivables funding and operating expenses for such cards. The co-brand partner retains the risk associated with the miles, points or other currency earned by the Cardmember under the partner’s loyalty program.  

Co-brand Partnerships with Financial Services Institutions  

We also issue Cards that are marketed under co-brand partnership arrangements with financial services partners. Such partnerships involve the offering of a standard product (issued by TRS or one of its subsidiaries) to customers of the financial services partner, generally co-branded with the partner’s name on the Card. Under these arrangements, we make payments to the financial services partners that are primarily based on the number of accounts acquired and retained through the arrangement and the amount of Cardmember spending on such Cards. The duration of such arrangements generally ranges from three to seven years.  

For example, during 2007 OPEN from American Express® announced strategic card relationships with Harris N.A. and BankAtlantic. Under the agreements, Harris and BankAtlantic will distribute OPEN from American Express®  products to small business customers in Illinois, Indiana, and Florida.  

American Express Centurion Bank and American Express Bank, FSB as Issuers of Certain Cards  

Our revolving credit Cards in the United States are issued by American Express Centurion Bank (“Centurion Bank”), which markets primarily through direct mail and other remote marketing channels, and American Express Bank, FSB (“AEBFSB”), which markets through in-person selling and third-party co-brand partners as well. Centurion Bank also issues certain consumer charge cards and AEBFSB issues certain OPEN charge cards. Both banks are wholly owned subsidiaries of TRS.  

Centurion Bank is a Utah-chartered industrial bank regulated, supervised and regularly examined by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). Centurion Bank is an FDIC-insured depository institution. AEBFSB is a federal savings bank regulated, supervised and regularly examined by the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. AEBFSB is an FDIC-insured depository institution. The activities of Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are   

16  

 subject to examination by their respective regulators. Both banks take steps to maintain compliance programs to address the various safety and soundness, internal control and compliance requirements, including anti-money laundering requirements, that apply to them. You can find a further discussion of the anti-money laundering initiatives affecting us under “Corporate & Other” below.  

Centurion Bank is subject to the risk-based capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the FDIC. Under these regulations, a bank is deemed to be well-capitalized if it maintains a tier one risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a leverage ratio of at least 5%. Based on Centurion Bank’s tier one risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and leverage ratios, Centurion Bank was considered to be well-capitalized at December 31, 2007.  

AEBFSB is subject to the risk-based capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the OTS. Under these regulations, a federal savings bank is deemed to be well-capitalized if it maintains a tier one risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, and a tier one core capital ratio of at least 5%. Based on AEBFSB’s tier one risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and tier one core capital ratios, AEBFSB was considered to be well-capitalized at December 31, 2007.  

Card Pricing and Account Management  

Certain of our Cards, particularly charge Cards, charge an annual fee that varies based on the type of Card and the number of Cards for each account. We also offer many revolving credit Cards with no annual fee but on which we assess finance charges for revolving balances. Depending on the product, we also charge Cardmembers an annual program fee to participate in the Membership Rewards programs and fees for account performance (e.g., late fees) or for certain services (e.g., additional copies of account statements). We apply standards and criteria for creditworthiness to each Cardmember through a variety of means both at the time of initial solicitation or application and on an ongoing basis during the Card relationship. We use sophisticated credit models and techniques in our risk management operations and believe that our strong risk management capabilities provide us with a competitive advantage.  

Membership Rewards® Program  

The Membership Rewards® program from American Express has over 1,500 redemption partners worldwide, is offered in 98 markets around the world and is built around 48 programs, each tailored to local market needs. The program allows Cardmembers to earn one point for virtually every dollar charged on eligible, enrolled American Express® Cards, and then redeem their points for a wide array of rewards, including travel, retail merchandise, dining and entertainment, financial services and even donations to benefit tens of thousands of charities. Points have no expiration date and there is no limit on the number of points one can earn. A large majority of spending by eligible Cardmembers earns points under this program.  

The U.S. Membership Rewards® program has over 160 redemption partners and features over 250 merchandise brands. Enrollees may also customize their own redemption experiences through the program’s Create Your Reward and Experiences options.  

In 2007, we introduced new Membership Rewards® program levels aligned with specific card products to better meet Cardmember lifestyle and reward program usage needs. American Express Cardmembers now participate in one of three Membership Rewards program levels based on the Credit or Charge Card they have in their wallet. For those Cardmembers with American Express® Credit Cards, including Blue from American Express®, we have created the Membership Rewards Express® program. American Express Charge Cardmembers with American Express® Green and Gold Cards have the Membership Rewards program. Platinum Card® members and Centurion® Cardmembers are enrolled in the Membership Rewards First® program.  

During the year we also announced a number of innovations and expanded our list of redemption partners across all levels of the Membership Rewards® program. We launched Points AdvanceSM, which allows   

17  

 Cardmembers to obtain points against future points earned at the time they choose to redeem points for a reward. We also launched Flight Finder and Room Finder, two innovative online tools for booking award travel. Flight Finder and Room Finder enable Charge Cardmembers enrolled in Membership Rewards® to easily search award inventory, transfer points directly into a frequent flyer or frequent guest account, and book flights or hotel stays in a single online transaction. We added several new program partners to our list of some of the world’s finest retail establishments and service providers, including the addition of luxury fashion brand Salvatore Ferragamo to First CollectionSM, a private portfolio of premium partners and rewards available exclusively to Platinum Card® and Centurion® Card members enrolled in the Membership Rewards First® program.  

When a Cardmember enrolled in the Membership Rewards® program uses the Card, we establish reserves to cover the cost of estimated future reward redemptions for points earned to date. When a Membership Rewards® program enrollee redeems a reward using Membership Rewards® points, we make a payment to the Membership Rewards® program partner providing the reward pursuant to contractual arrangements. Because of higher charge volumes and increased customer participation in Membership Rewards®, the expense of the program has increased both in the United States and internationally over the past several years and continues to grow. At year end, we estimated that current Cardmembers will redeem approximately 90% of their points. For more information on our Membership Rewards Program, see “Critical Accounting Policies–Reserves for Membership Rewards® Costs” appearing on page 31 of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  

Despite the increasing costs of the Membership Rewards® program as penetration and usage expand, it plays a vital role in our profitability. The program continues to be an important driver of Cardmember spending and loyalty. We believe, based on historical experience, that Cardmembers enrolled in rewards programs yield higher spend, stronger credit performance and greater profit for us. For the three-year period through the end of 2007, total spending by U.S. Membership Rewards® participants increased by 52%. By offering a broader range of redemption choices, we have given our Cardmembers more flexibility in the use of their rewards points and favorably affected our average cost per point. We continually seek to optimize the overall economics of the program and make changes to enhance its value to Cardmembers. Our program is also valuable to merchants that become redemption partners as we bring them high-spending Cardmembers and new marketing channels to reach these Cardmembers.  

Cardmember Special Services and Programs  

Throughout the world, our Cardmembers have access to a variety of fee-free and fee-based special services and programs, depending on the type of Cards they have. Examples of these special services and programs include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

18  

OPEN from American Express®  

In addition to our U.S. Consumer Card business, through AEBFSB we are also a leading provider of financial services to small businesses (firms that generally have less than 100 employees and/or annual sales of $10 million or less), a key growth area in the United States. OPEN from American Express (“OPEN”) offers small business owners a wide range of tools, services and savings designed to meet their evolving needs, including:  

   •    charge and credit Cards;  

   •    access to lines of credit up to $100,000;  

   •    discounts at select suppliers of business services and products, including airline tickets, car rentals, hotel stays, package shipping, computer and software equipment, telecommunications, printing and photocopying services and other business services;  

   •    expense management reporting;  

   •    enhanced online account management capabilities;  

   •    retail and travel protections such as baggage insurance; and  

   •    travel services.  

During 2007, we continued to expand the breadth of products and services offered by OPEN® through the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    •    The announcement of two new agent bank agreements with Harris N.A. and BankAtlantic, allowing the distribution of our OPEN from American Express® small business charge and credit products in Illinois, Indiana, and Florida. In both cases, American Express will serve as the card issuer and will partner with each institution to develop joint marketing efforts for each region.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    •    The launch of the Platinum Office Program with OPEN from American Express® and The Regus Group, the world’s largest provider of workplace solutions, which will provide Business Platinum Card members access to flexible office space, services and technology, generally only available to much larger corporations; and  

    •    An additional benefit on the TrueEarnings® Business Card from Costco and American Express, offering an annual gasoline rebate of up to 5% at Costco Gasoline and stand-alone gas stations.  

These programs are in addition to OPEN® Savings, which is a program that offers savings for OPEN customers on travel and other major business expenses simply by using their American Express® Business Card at participating companies. These savings may be combined with any existing discounts or offers. During 2007, we expanded OPEN® Savings by signing new partners and expanding relationships with existing ones in various categories, including American Express Incentive Services and internet services and products from Yahoo! Search Marketing and Yahoo! Small Business.  

19  

Card Issuing Business—Competition  

Our proprietary Card business encounters substantial and intense competition in the United States and internationally. As a card issuer, we compete in the United States with financial institutions (such as Citibank, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, and Capital One Financial) that issue general purpose charge and credit cards, primarily under revolving credit plans, and Discover Financial Services, which issues the Discover Card on the Discover Business Services network. We also encounter limited competition from businesses that issue their own cards or otherwise extend credit to their customers, such as retailers and airline associations, although these cards are generally accepted only at limited locations. Because of continuing consolidations among banking and financial services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by major card issuers, there are now a smaller number of significant issuers. The largest competing issuers have continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail branch networks, and competition among all issuers remains intense.  

Competing card issuers offer a variety of products and services to attract cardholders, including premium cards with enhanced services or lines of credit, airline frequent flyer program mileage credits, cash rebates and other reward or rebate programs, services for small business owners, “teaser” promotional interest rates for both credit card acquisition and balance transfers, and co-branded arrangements with partners that offer benefits to cardholders. In recent years we have encountered increasingly intense competition in the small business sector, as competitors have targeted OPEN’s customer base and our leadership position in providing financial services to small businesses.  

Most financial institutions that offer demand deposit accounts also issue debit cards to permit depositors to access their funds. Use of debit cards for point-of-sale purchases has grown as most financial institutions have replaced ATM cards with general purpose debit cards bearing either the Visa or MasterCard logo. As a result, the volume of transactions made with debit cards in the United States has continued to increase significantly and has grown more rapidly than credit and charge card transactions. Debit cards are marketed as replacements for cash and checks, and transactions made with debit cards are typically for small dollar amounts. The ability to substitute debit cards for credit and charge cards is limited because there is no credit extended and the consumer must have sufficient funds in his or her demand deposit account to pay for the purchase at the time of the transaction. We do not currently issue point-of-sale debit cards for use on the American Express network.  

The principal competitive factors that affect the card-issuing business include:  

   •    the features and the quality of the services, including rewards programs, provided to Cardmembers;  

   •    the number, spending characteristics and credit performance of Cardmembers;  

   •    the quantity and quality of the establishments that accept Cards;  

   •    the cost of Cards to Cardmembers;  

   •    pricing, payment and other Card account terms and conditions;  

   •    the number and quality of other charge and credit cards available to Cardmembers;  

   •    the nature and quality of expense management data capture and reporting capability;  

   •    the success of targeted marketing and promotional campaigns;  

   •    reputation and brand recognition;  

   •    the ability of issuers to manage credit and interest rate risk throughout the economic cycle;  

   •    the ability of issuers to implement operational and cost efficiencies; and  

   •    the quality of customer service.  

As the payment industry continues to evolve, we are also beginning to face competition from non-traditional players, such as online networks and telecom providers, that leverage new technologies and customers’ existing charge and credit card account relationships to create payment solutions.  

20  

Financing Activities  

American Express Credit Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of TRS, along with its subsidiaries (“Credco”), purchases the majority of charge Card receivables arising from the use of Cards issued in the United States and in certain currencies outside the United States. Credco finances the purchase of receivables principally through the issuance of commercial paper and the sale of medium- and long-term notes. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB finance their revolving credit receivables, in part, through the sale of short- and medium-term notes and certificates of deposit in the United States. TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB also fund receivables through asset securitization programs. The cost of funding Cardmember receivables and loans is a major expense of Card operations. (You can find a discussion of our securitization and other financing activities on page 29, page 32, pages 42-48 and pages 55-56 under the caption “Financial Review,” and Note 6 on pages 85-87 of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders, which portions we incorporate herein by reference.)  

Card Issuing Business—Regulation  

The charge card and consumer lending businesses are subject to extensive regulation. In the United States, we are subject to a number of federal laws and regulations, including:  

   •    the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (which generally prohibits discrimination in the granting and handling of credit);  

   •    the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”), as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (“FACT Act”) (which, among other things, regulates use by creditors of consumer credit reports and credit prescreening practices and requires certain disclosures when an application for credit is rejected);  

   •    the Truth in Lending Act (“TILA”) (which, among other things, requires extensive disclosure of the terms upon which credit is granted), including the amendments to TILA that were adopted through the enactment of the Fair Credit and Charge Card Disclosure Act (which mandates certain disclosures on credit and charge card applications);  

   •    the Fair Credit Billing Act (which, among other things, regulates the manner in which billing inquiries are handled and specifies certain billing requirements);  

   •    the Electronic Funds Transfer Act (which regulates disclosures and settlement of transactions for electronic funds transfers including those at ATMs); and  

   •    Federal and state laws and regulations that generally prohibit engaging in unfair and deceptive business practices.  

Certain federal privacy-related laws and regulations govern the collection and use of customer information by financial institutions (see “Corporate & Other” below). Federal legislation also regulates abusive debt collection practices. In addition, a number of states, the European Union, and many foreign countries in which we operate have significant consumer credit protection and disclosure and privacy-related laws (in certain cases more stringent than the laws of the United States). Bankruptcy and debtor relief laws affect us to the extent that such laws result in amounts owed being classified as delinquent and/or charged off as uncollectible. Card issuers and card networks are subject to anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism legislation, including, in the United States, the Patriot Act. (For a discussion of this legislation and its effect on our business, see “Regulation—General” within “Corporate & Other” below.)  

Centurion Bank, AEBFSB and our other bank entities are subject to a variety of laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions. Changes in such laws and regulations or in the regulatory application or judicial interpretation thereof could impact the manner in which we conduct our business and the costs of compliance. The regulatory environment in which our Card and lending businesses operate has become increasingly complex and robust. The U.S. Congress and regulators, as well as various consumer advocacy groups, have continued their focus and attention on certain practices of credit card issuers, such as increases in APRs, changes in the terms of the account, and the types and levels of fees and financial charges charged by card   

21  

 issuers for, among other things, late payments, returned checks, payments by telephone, copies of statements and the like. We regularly review and, as appropriate, refine our business practices in light of existing and anticipated developments in laws, regulations and industry trends so we can continue to manage our business prudently and consistent with regulatory requirements and expectations.  

In January 2003, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (the “FFIEC”), an interagency body composed of the principal U.S. federal entities that regulate banks and other financial institutions, issued new guidance to the industry on credit card account management and loss allowance practices (the “Guidance”). The Guidance covers five areas: (i) credit line management; (ii) over-limit practices; (iii) minimum payment and negative amortization practices; (iv) workout and forbearance practices; and (v) certain income (fee) recognition and loss allowance practices. The Guidance is generally applicable to all institutions under the supervision of the federal bank regulatory agencies that comprise the FFIEC, although it is primarily the result of the identification by bank regulators in their examinations of other credit card lenders’ practices deemed by them to be inappropriate, particularly, but not exclusively, with regard to subprime lending programs. At present, we do not have any lending programs that target the subprime market. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB evaluate and discuss the Guidance with their respective regulators on an ongoing basis as part of their regulatory examination processes, and, as a result, may refine their practices from time to time based on regulatory input. The Guidance has not had, nor do we expect it to have, any material impact on our businesses or practices.  

American Express Consumer Travel Network—USA  

The American Express Consumer Travel Network—USA provides travel, financial and Cardmember services to consumers through American Express-owned travel service offices, call centers, participating American Express Representatives (independently-owned travel agency locations that operate under the American Express brand) and the Consumer Travel Web site. U.S. Consumer Travel has distinguished itself in the luxury marketplace through its Platinum Travel Services and Centurion Travel Services, which provide programs such as the International Airline Program, which offers two-for-one fares on certain international first and business class tickets, and the Fine Hotels & Resorts program, a luxury hotel program offering room upgrades and value-added amenities. Other premium programs developed by Consumer Travel for Centurion and Platinum Card members include Centurion Cruise Privileges®, Centurion Destinations® and Platinum Destinations® Vacations, the Private Jets Program, Private Villas and Yachts. Consumer Travel also provides Membership Rewards® programs designed for specific Cardmember segments such as Membership Rewards Land & Sea packages and Gold Card Destinations.  

In 2007, we launched the American Express Going Once® Web site, where for a limited time U.S. and U.K. Cardmembers had an opportunity to purchase more than 25 travel packages in a declining price auction, including a luxury RV trip across America, an Antarctica adventure and a South African safari.  

In addition, the Consumer Travel business operates a wholesale travel business in the United States through our Travel Impressions subsidiary. (A wholesaler purchases inventory, such as hotel rooms, from suppliers and then resells the services to the customer at retail prices that the wholesaler determines.) Our wholesale travel business packages American Express Vacations and distributes travel packages through other retail travel agents and private label brands for third parties in the United States.  

Our Consumer Travel Web site, americanexpress.com/travel, offers a full range of travel rates and discounts on airfares, hotels, car rentals, last-minute deals, cruises and full vacation packages. The Web site offers unique  

American Express Cardmember benefits such as an American Express Travel Office locator, Travel Specialist finder tools, double Membership Rewards points, and travel planning resources and destination content through the “Local Color” portion of the Web site. In addition, Cardmembers are able to redeem Membership Rewards points for some categories of travel through our Web site, as well as through our call centers and Travel Offices.  

In 2007, Consumer Travel attracted 12 new members with 35 locations to our Representative Network, including Morris Murdock Travel, Piedmont Travel, and Hunter World Travel. In addition, we entered into an   

22  

 agreement in 2007 with Smithsonian Journeys, the educational travel program of the Smithsonian Institution and the world’s largest museum-based travel program, to offer Smithsonian Journeys’ cultural and educational group trips to Cardmembers.  

TRS’ worldwide travel network of retail travel locations is important in supporting the American Express brand and providing Cardmember servicing throughout the world, including a range of Traveler Cheques, Gift Cheques, Gift Cards and foreign exchange services.  

Consumer Travel Network—USA—Competition  

American Express Consumer Travel competes with a variety of different competitors including traditional “brick and mortar” travel agents, credit card companies with significant travel benefits, online travel agents and travel suppliers that distribute their products to consumers directly via the Internet or telephone-based customer service centers. In recent years we have experienced an increasing presence of “niche” players that are seeking to capitalize on the growth in the luxury travel segment by combining luxury travel offers with concierge-type services.  

 INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES  

We issue our charge and credit Cards in numerous countries around the globe. Although our geographic scope is widespread, we generally do not have significant share in the markets in which we operate. We focus primarily on those markets that we believe offer us the greatest financial opportunity. For discussion of Cards issued internationally through our GNS partner relationships, please see the section “Global Network Services” above.  

The Company continued to bolster its international proprietary Card business through the launch of numerous new or enhanced Card products during 2007. These are Cards that we issue, either on our own or, as further described below, as co-brands with partnering institutions. This past year, among other new proprietary products, we announced or launched Cards with Harrods in the United Kingdom, BMW in Germany and KingFisher Airlines in India.  

We offer many of the same programs and services in our international proprietary Card issuing business as we do in our U.S. proprietary issuing business. For example, as in the United States, we offer various flexible payment options similar to our Sign & Travel® program and our Extended Payment Option to Cardmembers in several international markets.  

Also, as in the United States, we issue Cards internationally under distribution agreements with banks. Another example of our distribution partnerships is affinity cards with fraternal, professional, educational and other organizations. For instance, we have been successful in penetrating the affinity card segment in Australia, where we issue Cards with the majority of the largest professional associations in that country. In Australia, affinity cards are a substantial part of our total revolving portfolio and contribute to our proprietary consumer lending activities.  

As in the United States, rewards programs are a strong driver of Cardmember spending in the international consumer business. We have more than 1,400 redemption partners across our international business, with an average of 80 partners in each country; less than 23% of these partners are in the travel industry. Cardmembers can redeem their points with more than 50 airlines and over 200 hotels. Our redemption options include travel, retail merchandise, entertainment, shopping and recreation gift certificates, experiences, financial services and charity rewards. In 2007, we continued to enhance our rewards programs in several markets, offering more flexible choices that enable Cardmembers to redeem Membership Rewards® points more quickly. For example, we significantly expanded our Pay with Points program to include more redemption options, markets and channels. With the expansion of Pay with Points for travel, Membership Rewards® points can now be redeemed for rewards with virtually all major airlines and hotel groups.   

23  

Membership Travel Services International provides premium travel and concierge services to our Platinum and Centurion Customers, through 25 exclusively dedicated call centers in 25 countries. Additionally, Membership Travel Services operates 24 proprietary Travel Service Offices in Mexico, Italy and Argentina to provide all Cardmembers with travel, foreign exchange and general card service assistance. We have taken steps to enhance our capabilities to sell exclusively-negotiated benefits and luxury travel packages with preferred suppliers through the Fine Hotels and Resorts Program, American Express Vacations and American Express’s International Airline Program to create tangible value and memorable experiences for our Cardmembers. In 2007, we added Delta Air Lines, British Airways, and Emirates to the existing 18 airline partners in our International Airline Program (IAP), which is exclusively available to Platinum and Centurion Cardmembers and which allows them to receive complimentary companion tickets or a class upgrade when flying on qualifying international flights in business or first class.  

We increased the flexibility of payment for travel and concierge services by allowing Platinum and Centurion Cardmembers to use their Membership Rewards® points to pay for their travel purchases in 11 international markets.  

International Proprietary Consumer Card—Competition  

Compared to the United States, consumers outside the United States use general purpose charge and credit cards for a smaller percentage of their total payments, with some large emerging market countries just beginning to transition to card usage in any meaningful way. Currently, we have a small share of consumer general purpose charge and credit card spending outside the United States. Internationally, our proprietary Card issuing business is subject to competition from multinational banks, such as Citibank, HSBC and Banco Santander, as well as many local banks and financial institutions. Globally, we view Citibank and HSBC as our strongest competitors, as they currently offer card products in a large number of markets.  

 GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES  

Through our Global Commercial Services (“GCS”) group, we provide expense management services to more than 100,000 firms worldwide through our Global Commercial Card & Services and Global Travel Services. American Express is a leading global issuer of commercial Cards and is also a leading global travel management company for corporations and businesses. During 2007, we added or retained several major Commercial Card clients in the United States and internationally, including NCR, Hewlett Packard, Microsoft, Black&Decker Corporation and Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation. Additionally, in 2007, we added or retained several American Express Business Travel clients in the United States and internationally, including Rohm and Haas Company, Zale Corporation and EADS.  

GCS offers four primary products and services:  

   •    Corporate Card, issued to individuals through a corporate account established by their employer and designed primarily for travel and entertainment spending;  

   •    Corporate Purchasing Solutions, an account established by corporations to pay for everyday business expenses such as office and computer supplies;  

    •    S2SSM suite of products, which include electronic solutions for companies looking to streamline their procurement processes; and  

   •    American Express Business Travel, which helps businesses manage and optimize their travel expenses through a variety of travel-related products, services and solutions.  

Global Commercial Card & Services  

Global Commercial Card & Services (“GCC&S”) offers a range of expense management solutions to companies worldwide through our Corporate Card program, Corporate Purchasing Solutions, and electronic invoicing and payment services (Source-to-Settle (“S2S”® )).  

24  

The American Express® Corporate Card is a charge card that individuals may obtain through a corporate account established by their employer for business purposes. Through our Corporate Card Program, companies can manage their travel, entertainment and purchasing expenses and improve negotiating leverage with suppliers, among other benefits. We use our direct relationships with merchants to offer Corporate Card clients superior data about company spending, as well as streamlined dispute resolution. We issue local currency Corporate Cards in over 45 countries, which we distribute through proprietary operations and partner banks, and international dollar Corporate Cards in over 100 countries.  

Corporate Purchasing Solutions (“CPS”) helps large corporations and mid-sized companies manage their everyday spending. CPS is used to pay for everyday goods and business expenses, such as office supplies, industrial supplies and business equipment in 24 markets around the world. This type of spending by corporations is less susceptible to economic downturns than traditional travel and entertainment spending and helps to diversify the spending mix on our Commercial Cards.  

The S2S® suite of products are designed to help companies improve the efficiency of their supply chain, reduce processing costs, improve cash management, and increase control and compliance in the purchasing process. These solutions significantly expand the American Express suite of commercial card products and services and responds to clients’ needs as they transform their purchasing processes, from sourcing and ordering through invoice and payment. During 2007, we developed and began marketing S2S Contract Audit & RecoverySM, an analytical tool providing firms with best practices to achieve negotiated contract savings. We also unveiled eInvoice & Pay, a fully integrated Electronic Invoice Presentment and Payment (EIPP) solution, which allows companies to process 100% of their invoices and issue payments to suppliers from an online portal managed by American Express. Our focus on electronic payments also includes Buyer Initiated Payments (“BIP”), which allows clients to send us an “approved to pay” data file, so that we can pay invoices via Corporate Purchasing Card or other forms of electronic payment.  

In addition to providing expense management services to large and global corporations, our GCC&S business markets the Commercial Card programs to middle market companies (defined in the United States as firms with annual revenues of $10 million to $1 billion) worldwide. GCC&S is focused on continuing to expand its business with mid-sized companies, which represent significant growth opportunities. Businesses of this size often do not have corporate card programs. However, once enrolled in a corporate card program, mid-sized companies, which usually do not have well-defined purchasing programs, typically put a significant portion of their business spending (both travel and entertainment and non-T&E, such as office supplies) on the commercial card because they can gain control, savings and employee benefits. GCS offers the Savings at Work® Program to mid-sized companies in the United States, as well as similar programs globally, which provide companies with cash back and/or discounted pricing on everyday business products and services, such as car rentals, hotels, restaurants and overnight shipping.  

With the increased focus on cost containment by firms, we have experienced significant growth over the past few years in the Corporate Meeting Card, which helps U.S.-based and international companies control company meeting expenses. The Corporate Meeting Card is available in 21 global markets and provides clients with a tool to capture such spending and provides company meeting planners with a tool to simplify the meetings payment process and access to data to negotiate with suppliers. GCC&S also offers the Corporate Defined Expense Program (“CDEP”). This product allows companies to set a maximum amount to be charged on a CDEP Card before expiration and permits them to segregate spending data for specific purposes on projects. It is designed for companies that want to allocate funds for a specific purpose, such as employee relocations or training.  

During 2007, we introduced new products and service enhancements to improve the overall experience of our Commercial Cardmembers, including the entry into a strategic partnership with Clear, the largest operator of security express lanes at airports in the United States, to offer Corporate Cardmembers preferred pricing on Clear membership and enrollment privileges. In addition, we now also provide proprietary Platinum Cardmembers and Platinum Global Dollar Cardmembers with free access to American Airlines’ Admiral Club lounges around the world.  

25  

GCC&S also offers American Express @ Work®, a secure, web-based suite of online tools that enables clients to manage their Corporate Card, Corporate Purchasing Solutions and Corporate Meeting Card programs on a 24/7 basis through a single user interface. American Express @ Work® provides authorized client representatives online access to global management information to help them gain visibility into their spending patterns, as well as the ability to make changes to their program or Commercial Card accounts through an easy to use online interface. American Express @ Work® also includes automated expense reporting and reconciliation tools that enable clients to enforce program compliance and effectively integrate spend information with their internal accounting systems. This suite of online tools is intended to assist companies in managing expenses more efficiently than offline alternatives, thereby decreasing both the direct and indirect costs associated with maintaining accounts and ensuring program compliance.  

Global Commercial Card Business—Competition  

The commercial payments industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with competition increasingly intense at both the card network and card issuer levels. Our Commercial Card offerings have experienced increasing competition, including competitors’ aggressive expansion into new and emerging markets, efforts to transition business-to-business spend from cash and check to electronic invoicing and payment vehicles, and expanded marketing and advertising budgets for commercial services.  

In addition, both Visa and MasterCard have increased efforts to support card issuers such as U.S. Bank, JPMorgan Chase, GE Capital Financial Inc. and Citibank (in the United States and globally, including Diner’s Club North America, its affiliate), to build and support data collection and reporting necessary to satisfy customer requirements.  

Commercial Card issuers have increasingly acquired niche technology offerings to enhance data capture capabilities and reporting functionality. These efforts are built on the solid progress of the bankcard associations to offer more global, robust solutions. As such, global servicing, data quality, technological functionality and simplicity, and customer experience are among the key competitive factors in the commercial card business.  

Global Travel Services  

Global Travel Services (“GTS”) consists of American Express Business Travel and Global Foreign Exchange Services.  

American Express Business Travel (“Business Travel”) provides globally integrated solutions, both online and offline, to help organizations manage and optimize their travel investments and service their traveling employees. These solutions include travel reservation advice and booking transaction processing; travel expense management policy consultation; supplier negotiation and consultation; advisory services; management information reporting, data analysis and benchmarking; and group and incentive travel services. Business Travel also provides 24-hour customer service to clients globally, both on a day-to-day and emergency basis.  

The Company operates one of the world’s largest travel agencies with over 2,200 travel service locations in over 140 countries and territories worldwide. In total, we processed $24.6 billion of travel spend globally in 2007 through proprietary operations and consolidated joint ventures.  

We continue to update our economic model and invest in innovative and new products, services and technologies to enhance the value that we deliver to our customers and address ongoing travel industry challenges and opportunities. For example, we have substantially reduced our reliance on commission revenues from suppliers (such as airlines or hotels), and now generate revenues primarily from customers who pay for the services that we provide. In 2007, we launched several innovative solutions and service enhancements that increased the savings and control clients could achieve amid rising costs in a strong demand environment, including:  

    •    American Express Intelligent Online Marketplace (“AXIOM™”), a tool to support policy enforcement and preferred vendor compliance at the point-of-sale;  

26  

   •    AX HotelHub, an interface bringing together many hotel properties around the globe into a unique one-stop-shop, and delivering better control of hotel spend with a more efficient way to manage corporate hotel programs both online and offline;  

    •    American Express AXIS @ Work™, a new global web-based management information data reporting solution, which presents corporate travel purchasers and managers with centralized, online access to data on their firm’s business expenditures; and  

   •    The global implementation and standardization of servicing technology, customer service processes and measurement.  

We offer a range of other solutions to our customers that provide them with savings, control, services and traveler care. For example, we offer customers savings and benefits through the Preferred Extra supplier value programs and advisory services, which provide preferred supplier rates and consulting solutions in all areas of travel and entertainment expense management. We also offer the TravelBahn® High-Speed Network, which is our data management network, and our TravelBahn® Distribution Solution, which provides access to airline inventory and fares for Business Travel customers with a number of carriers in North America and in select international markets.  

Organic growth of the business along with strategies for acquiring and partnering with local market companies remain key components to Business Travel’s global growth strategy. In Hong Kong, we bought the remaining equity stake of Business Travel’s joint venture partner Farrington American Express Travel Services Ltd., a leading Hong Kong travel services provider.  

Business Travel has also moved many of its business processes and customer servicing online. In the United States, more than 50% of all Business Travel transactions were processed online. In addition, the volume of online transactions is growing in other markets around the world.  

Global Foreign Exchange Services (“FES”) consists of retail and wholesale foreign exchange services and International Payments. Other than in Australia, Mexico, Singapore and Italy, where we operate foreign exchange offices in city locations, we concentrate our retail foreign exchange business in key international airports. For corporate clients, our International Payments online product allows companies and banks to make cross-border payments in major foreign currencies at competitive exchange rates.  

Global Travel Services—Competition  

Business Travel continues to face intense competition in the United States and internationally from numerous traditional and online travel management companies, as well as from direct sales by airlines and other travel suppliers. Competition among travel management companies is mainly based on price, service, value creation, convenience, global capabilities and proximity to the customer. Competition also comes from corporate customers themselves, as some companies have become accredited as in-house corporate travel agents.  

For many years, travel management companies have faced pressure on revenues from airlines, as most carriers have stopped paying “base” commissions to travel agents for tickets sold. Carriers have also increased the number of transactions they book directly through their Web sites and other means. These trends have reduced the revenue opportunities for travel agents because they do not receive distribution revenue from directly booked transactions. Recent announcements that several major airlines are in merger discussions indicate that the U.S. airline industry may be entering a period of significant consolidation. These types of structural changes may result in additional challenges to travel management companies.  

Overall, intense competition among travel management companies, the ongoing trends of airline direct sales, rise of low-cost carriers and ongoing reductions in or elimination of airline commissions and fees continue to put pressure on revenue for travel agents. We believe that the restructuring of our business model over the last   

27  

 few years (which allows us to charge customers for the services we provide and the value we create), restructuring our expense base through the rationalization of our call center locations, transitioning many of our services online, and leveraging our global presence, have helped us to balance these revenue pressures. In response to competitive pressures, we are continuing to look for new ways to enhance the value we deliver for our customers both online and offline.  

 CORPORATE & OTHER  

Corporate & Other consists of corporate functions and auxiliary businesses, including the Company’s publishing business, Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products, and AEIDC and the continuing portions of AEBL not being sold to Standard Chartered PLC. We also discuss information relevant to the Company as a whole in this section.  

American Express Publishing  

Through American Express Publishing, we publish luxury lifestyle magazines such as Travel+Leisure®, T+L Golf®, Food & Wine® and Departures®; travel resources such as SkyGuide®; business resources such as the American Express Appointment Book and SkyGuide Executive Travel, a business traveler supplement; a variety of general interest, cooking, travel, wine, financial and time management books; branded membership services; a growing roster of international magazine editions; as well as directly sold and licensed products. American Express Publishing also has a custom publishing group and is expanding its service-driven Web sites such as: travelandleisure.com, foodandwine.com, departures.com, tlgolf.com, tlfamily.com and eskyguide.com. We have an agreement with Time Inc. under which it manages our publishing business, and we share profits relating to this business.  

Global Travelers Cheques and Prepaid Services (“TCPS”)  

We have been in the business of issuing and selling travelers checks since 1891. We sell the American Express® Travelers Cheque (“Travelers Cheque” or “Cheque”) as a safe and convenient alternative to cash. Travelers Cheques are available in U.S. dollars and five foreign currencies, including Euros. We also issue and sell other forms of paper travelers checks: American Express® Gift Cheques, which are available in U.S. and Canadian dollars, and the American Express® Cheque-Secure Funds, which are available in dollars and Euros, and are offered in certain countries as a safe way to keep cash at home. Sales of Travelers Cheques continued to decline in 2007.  

In addition to travelers checks, TCPS also offers a variety of other prepaid products, including reloadable and non-reloadable prepaid cards. We offer prepaid gift cards in the United States: the American Express® Gift Card (“Gift Card”), which can be used in the United States at merchants that accept American Express Cards, and mall-branded gift cards, which can also be used at multiple unaffiliated merchants that are located within a specific shopping mall and that accept the American Express® Card. The Gift Cards we offer are not for use at car rental, cruise lines or ATMs and, subject to applicable law, a monthly service fee applies 12 months after purchase of the gift card. Sales of gift cards continued to rise in 2007, reflecting the growing popularity of these products and our efforts to increase buying convenience for customers. During the year, we expanded our gift card product offering to include a themed “Thank You” gift card and customizable gift cards. Both are designed for employers and businesses of all sizes who want a gift card they can personalize to their company or to a particular rewards, incentive, or consumer promotion occasion. The custom gift card can be embossed on the front with a short message such as “Congratulations” or “Happy Holidays.”  

Through American Express Incentive Services L.L.C., a joint venture with Maritz Inc., we offer various incentive prepaid products, including the Corporate Gift Cheque, the Incentive Funds Card and several points-based incentive cards.  

28  

We sell American Express prepaid products through a variety of channels, including sales directly to consumers via phone and the Internet. Travelers Cheques and Gift Cheques are sold primarily through a broad network of selling outlets worldwide, including American Express travel offices, independent travel agents and financial institutions. In 2007, we announced a global, multi-year agreement with Travelex, the world’s largest foreign exchange specialist, to offer Travelers Cheques through its global agency network of large banks and travel agencies, and directly to consumers through its over 700 retail locations. Gift Cards are primarily sold through travel offices and retail establishments, including supermarkets and drug stores. During the year we announced an agreement under which Bank of America is selling the Gift Card in its retail banking centers nationwide. We sometimes compensate selling outlets for their prepaid product sales.  

During 2007, we decided to discontinue offering the Travelers Cheque Card, a reloadable prepaid card that was issued in the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany. This decision was based on our conclusion that travelers prefer paper Travelers Cheques when choosing a prepaid travel money product.  

Travelers Cheques and Prepaid Cards—Competition  

Travelers Cheques compete with a wide variety of financial payment products, including cash, foreign currency, checks, other brands of travelers checks, and, increasingly, debit and ATM cards and, to a limited extent, competing prepaid cards, and in some circumstances, other payment cards. The principal competitive factors affecting the travelers check and prepaid card industry are:  

   •    the number and location of merchants willing to accept the form of payment;  

   •    the availability to the consumer of other forms of payment;  

   •    the amount of fees charged to the consumer;  

   •    the compensation paid to, and frequency of settlement by, selling outlets;  

   •    the accessibility of sales and refunds for the products;  

   •    the success of marketing and promotional campaigns; and  

   •    the ability to service the customer satisfactorily, including for lost or stolen instruments.  

Our prepaid cards (“open-system” cards that can be used at multiple unaffiliated sellers of goods or services) compete with the same payment methods described above; however, gift cards compete primarily with cash, checks and other open-system and store-specific gift cards.  

Travelers Cheques and Prepaid Cards—Regulation  

As an issuer of travelers checks, we are regulated in the United States under the “money transmitter” or “sale of check” laws in effect in most states. These laws require travelers check (and, where applicable, prepaid card) issuers to obtain licenses, to meet certain safety and soundness criteria, to hold outstanding proceeds of sale in highly-rated and secure investments, and to provide detailed reports. We invest the proceeds from sales of our Travelers Cheques and prepaid cards in accordance with applicable law, predominantly in highly-rated debt securities consisting primarily of intermediate- and long-term federal, state and municipal obligations. Many states examine licensees annually. In addition, travelers check issuers are required by the laws of many states to comply with state unclaimed and abandoned property laws under which such issuers must pay to states the face amount of any travelers check that is uncashed or unredeemed after 15 years. A few states have amended their abandoned property laws to apply to prepaid cards.  

In the past few years, some states have enacted laws pertaining to the issuance and the sale of gift cards. We continue to monitor state legislative activity restricting the fees that consumers can be charged or the expiration   

29  

 dates that can apply to gift cards. In certain states where regulation has made it unprofitable for us to offer gift cards, we have limited or withdrawn from selling these cards. Federal anti-money laundering regulations require, among other things, the registration of traveler check issuers as “Money Service Businesses” and compliance with anti-money laundering recordkeeping and reporting requirements by issuers and selling outlets. At this time, stored value issuers and redeemers, while considered to be “Money Service Businesses,” are not required to register under these regulations. Outside the United States, there are varying licensing and anti-money laundering requirements, including some that are similar to those in the United States.  

Service and Technology Infrastructure  

We continue to make significant investments, both in the United States and internationally, in our Card systems and infrastructure to allow faster introduction and greater customization of products. We also are using technology to develop and improve our service capabilities to continue to deliver a high quality customer experience. For example, we maintain a service delivery platform that our employees use in the Card business to support a variety of customer servicing and account management activities such as account maintenance, updating of Cardmember information, the addition of new Cards to an account and resolving customer satisfaction issues. In international markets, we are building flexibility and enhancing our global platforms and capabilities, such as in revolving credit.   

We continue to leverage the Internet to lower costs, improve service quality and enhance our business model. During 2007, we broadened our focus to include opportunities to use the Internet to drive revenue and build our brand, while continuing to focus on migrating transaction volumes at lower costs. We also continue to have more online interactions with U.S. customers than we do by telephone or in person.  

As of year-end, customers had enrolled approximately 21 million Cards globally in our “Manage Your Card Account” service. This service enables Cardmembers to review and pay their American Express bills electronically, view and service their Membership Rewards program accounts and conduct various other functions quickly and securely online. We now have an online presence in 63 markets around the world, including GNS markets.  

We continue to devote substantial resources to our technology platform to ensure the highest level of data integrity, security and privacy. In 2006, we and several other payment card networks formed PCI SS, an independent standards-setting organization to manage the evolution of the Data Security Standard. (For a discussion of this organization, see the “Global Network Services” section above.)  

In 2002, we outsourced most of our technology operations work to IBM. The various arrangements covered under our agreement with IBM range in term from seven to eleven years, with certain rights to extend. This arrangement currently enables us to benefit from IBM’s expertise while lowering our information technology costs. IBM is responsible for managing most of our day-to-day technology operations functions, including most of our mainframe, midrange and desktop systems; web hosting; database administration; help desk services and data center operations. Our internal IT organization continues to retain the Company’s key technology competencies, including information technology strategy, information security, managing strategic relationships with technologies’ partners, developing and maintaining applications and databases and managing the technology portfolios of our businesses.  

Regulation—General  

Most aspects of our business are subject to rigorous regulation by U.S. Federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by non-U.S. government agencies or regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Certain of our public disclosure, internal control environment and corporate governance principles are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations (including changes in interpretation or   

30  

 enforcement) could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. As a global financial institution, to the extent that different regulatory systems impose overlapping or inconsistent requirements on the conduct of our business, we face complexity and additional costs in our compliance efforts.  

We use information about our customers to develop and make available relevant, personalized products and services. Certain customers are given choices about how we use and disclose their information, and we give them notice regarding the measures we take to safeguard this information. Regulatory activity in the areas of privacy and data protection continues to increase worldwide, spurred by advancements in technology and related concerns about the rapid and widespread dissemination and use of information. As noted above, as part of our efforts to enhance payment account data security, in 2006, we and several other payment card networks formed PCI SSC, an independent standards-setting organization to manage the evolution of the PCI Data Security Standard.  

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”) became effective on July 1, 2001. GLBA provides for disclosure of a financial institution’s privacy policies and practices and affords customers the right to “opt out” of the institution’s disclosure of their personal financial information to unaffiliated third parties (with limited exceptions). This legislation does not preempt state laws that afford greater privacy protections to consumers, and several states have adopted such legislation. For example, in 2003 California enacted that state’s Financial Information Privacy Act. We continue our efforts to safeguard the data entrusted to us in accordance with applicable law and our internal data protection policies, including taking steps to reduce the potential for identity theft, while seeking to collect and use data properly to achieve our business objectives.  

Approximately 38 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia have enacted security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach, and several other states are considering similar legislation. In addition, several states are considering legislation requiring certain data security standards that could result in higher technology costs for the Company. In 1995, the European Parliament and Council passed European Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (commonly referred to as the Data Protection Directive), which obligates the controller of an individual’s personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. The Data Protection Directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in European Union Member States.  

The Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (“FCRA”) regulates the disclosure of consumer credit reports by consumer reporting agencies and the use of consumer credit report information by banks and other companies. FCRA was significantly amended by the enactment in December 2003 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (the “FACT Act”). The FACT Act requires any company that receives information concerning a consumer from an affiliate, subject to certain exceptions, to permit the consumer to opt out from having that information used to market the company’s products to the consumer. In October 2007, the FDIC issued a final rule implementing the affiliate marketing provisions of the FACT Act. Other Federal banking agencies are expected to promulgate similar rules imminently. Companies subject to FDIC oversight must comply with the rules by October 1, 2008. The FACT Act further amends the FCRA by adding several new provisions designed to prevent or decrease identity theft and to improve the accuracy of consumer credit information. The FDIC published a final rule in October 2007 requiring financial institutions to implement a program containing reasonable policies and procedures to address the risk of identity theft and to identify accounts where identity theft is more likely to occur. Other Federal banking agencies are expected to adopt similar rules in the near future. Companies subject to FDIC oversight must comply with the rule by November 1, 2008. The FACT Act also imposes new duties on both consumer reporting agencies and on businesses that furnish or use information contained in consumer credit reports. For example, a furnisher of information is required to implement procedures to prevent the reporting of any information that it learns is the result of identity theft. Also, if a consumer disputes the accuracy of information provided to a consumer reporting agency, the furnisher of that information must conduct an investigation and respond to the consumer in a timely fashion. The Federal banking regulatory agencies and the FTC have proposed rules that specify the circumstances under which furnishers of information would be required to investigate disputes regarding the accuracy of the information provided to a   

31  

 consumer reporting agency. The FACT Act also requires grantors of credit that use consumer credit report information in making a determination to offer a borrower credit on terms that are “materially less favorable” than the terms offered to most of the lender’s other customers to notify the borrower that the terms are based on a consumer credit report. In such a case the borrower is entitled to receive a free copy of the report from the consumer reporting agency. Grantors of credit using pre-screened consumer credit report information in credit solicitations are also required to include an enhanced notice to consumers that they have the right to opt out from receiving further pre-screened offers of credit. The enactment of the FACT Act and the promulgation of rules implementing it are not expected to have a significant impact on our business or practices.  

In the United States, the Patriot Act was enacted in October 2001 in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The Patriot Act substantially broadened existing anti-money laundering (“AML”) and terrorist financing legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the United States. The Patriot Act contains a wide variety of provisions aimed at fighting terrorism and money laundering, including provisions aimed at impeding terrorists’ ability to access and move funds used in support of terrorist activities. Among other things, the Patriot Act requires federal regulators, led by the Secretary of the Treasury, to regulate or take other steps to require financial institutions to establish AML programs that meet certain standards, including expanded reporting and enhanced information gathering and recordkeeping requirements. While American Express has long maintained AML programs in our businesses, the Secretary of the Treasury has issued regulations under the Patriot Act applicable to certain of our business activities conducted within AEB, TRS and their affiliates, prescribing minimum standards for such AML programs. In response to these regulations, as well as other AML regulatory requirements that we are subject to (both in the United States and in other jurisdictions in which we conduct business), we have enhanced our existing AML compliance programs and developed and implemented new ones. For example, in April 2002, the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury issued regulations applicable to operators of credit card networks (such as Visa, MasterCard, Diners Club, Discover and American Express) that would require credit card networks to have risk-based programs to screen institutions that are licensed to issue cards or acquire merchants on their networks. As a result, we developed and implemented a program for our GNS business. We have also developed and implemented a Customer Identification Program applicable to many of our businesses, and we have enhanced our Know Your Customer and Enhanced Due Diligence programs in others. We will take steps to comply with any additional regulations or initiatives that are adopted, whether in the United States or in other jurisdictions in which we conduct business.  

Throughout 2007, the industry has seen, from a regulatory and enforcement perspective, an increased scrutiny of financial institutions’ compliance with AML requirements, including the requirements to report large currency transactions and to file Suspicious Activity Reports. Likewise, the industry has seen an increased focus by regulators on how their regulated institutions manage their enterprise AML risk. Our AML compliance programs primarily consist of risk-based policies, procedures and controls that are reasonably designed to prevent, detect and report money laundering. We have committed to our consolidated supervisor, the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), that we will complete our efforts to develop and implement an enterprise-wide AML compliance program that will govern compliance throughout the American Express organization, and will ensure that each of its subsidiaries is provided with resources adequate to meet our legal and regulatory obligations. We will report periodically on our progress to the OTS. During 2007, we entered into settlements with various regulators relating to deficiencies in our AML program, which resulted in fines and penalties totaling $65 million. For a discussion of our recent settlements relating to deficiencies in our AML program, see “Legal Proceedings—Other Matters” below.  

In 2007, regulators in the United States and abroad continued to expand AML requirements to non-bank financial institutions and non-traditional industries and professions. In addition, several countries enacted rules requiring that financial institutions perform “enhanced due diligence” when doing business with “Politically Exposed Persons.”  

We have significant operations in the European Union, including a number of regulated businesses. We monitor developments in EU legislation, as well as in the other markets in which we operate, to ensure that we are in a position to comply with all applicable legal requirements, including European Union directives applicable to credit institutions, insurance intermediaries and other financial institutions.  

32  

 FOREIGN OPERATIONS  

We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the use of our Card products, Travelers Cheques, travel and other financial products and services in countries outside the United States and continue to broaden the use of these products and services outside the United States. (For a discussion of our revenue by geographic region, see Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which you can find on pages 108-110 of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.) Our revenues can be affected by political and economic conditions in these countries (including the availability of foreign exchange for the payment by the local Card issuer of obligations arising out of local Cardmembers’ spending outside such country, for the payment of Card bills by Cardmembers who are billed in other than their local currency, and for the remittance of the proceeds of Travelers Cheque sales). Substantial and sudden devaluation of local Cardmembers’ currency can also affect their ability to make payments to the local issuer of the Card in connection with spending outside the local country.  

As a result of our foreign operations, we are exposed to the possibility that, because of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar may be realized in amounts greater or less than the U.S. dollar amounts at which they are currently recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Examples of transactions in which this may occur include the purchase by Cardmembers of goods and services in a currency other than the currency in which they are billed; the sale in one currency of a Travelers Cheque denominated in a second currency; and, in most instances, investments in foreign operations. These risks, unless properly monitored and managed, could have an adverse effect on our operations. For more information on how we manage risk relating to foreign exchange, see “Risk Management—Market Risk Management Process” on pages 51 of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

On September 18, 2007, we entered into an agreement to sell our international banking subsidiary, American Express Bank Ltd. (“AEBL”), and American Express International Deposit Company (“AEIDC”), a subsidiary that issues investment certificates to AEBL’s customers, to Standard Chartered PLC (“Standard Chartered”) for the approximate value of $1.1 billion, subject to certain regulatory approvals. Standard Chartered will pay us an amount equal to the net asset value of the AEBL businesses that are being sold at the closing date plus $300 million. At December 31, 2007, this would have amounted to approximately $819 million. We also expect to realize an additional amount representing the net asset value of AEIDC, which was also contracted to be sold to Standard Chartered 18 months after the close of the AEBL sale, through a put/call agreement. As of December 31, 2007, the net asset value of that business was $232 million. This value is expected to be realized through (1) dividends from the subsidiary to us and (2) a subsequent payment from Standard Chartered based on the net asset value of AEIDC on the date the business is transferred to them.  

For 2007 and all prior periods presented, the operating results, assets and liabilities, and cash flows of AEBL (except for certain components of AEBL that are not being sold) have been removed from the Corporate & Other segment and reported within the discontinued operations captions in our Consolidated Financial Statements. AEIDC will continue to be included in continuing operations within the Corporate & Other segment until such time as AEIDC qualifies for classification as a discontinued operation, which will occur approximately one year prior to its transfer to Standard Chartered. Beginning with the third quarter of 2007, AEIDC’s investment portfolio was reclassified to Trading from Available-for-Sale due to the impact on the holding period of AEIDC’s investments as a result of the related AEBL sale agreement.  

You can find more information regarding this transaction on pages 27-28 under caption “Financial Review” of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders and in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, appearing on page 80 of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  

33  

American Express Bank  

American Express Bank (“AEB”) serves affluent and high net worth individuals and financial institutions through over 78 locations in 48 countries and regions worldwide. AEB’s operations are conducted primarily through our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, AEBL, and its subsidiaries. AEB serves financial institutions worldwide and individual clients outside the United States. AEB does not directly or indirectly do business in the United States except as may be incidental to its activities outside the United States. The following discussion relating to AEB generally does not distinguish between U.S.- and non-U.S.-based activities.  

AEB’s two primary business lines are Global Wealth Management (“GWM”), which incorporates The Private Bank and Financial Advisory Services, and the Financial Institutions Group (“FIG”). The Private Bank focuses on delivering an extensive range of investment management, trust and estate planning and banking services to high net worth individuals. Financial Advisory Services provides a wide variety of local, domestic saving and investment products to affluent individuals in select markets. FIG provides financial institution clients with a wide range of correspondent banking products, including international payments processing (wire transfers and checks), trade-related payments and financing, cash management, loans, extensions of credit and investment products.  

AEB’s worldwide headquarters are located in New York City. It maintains an international banking agency in New York City and Miami, Florida, and facility offices in San Francisco, San Diego and Los Angeles, California, as well as a representative office in Atlanta, Georgia. Its wholly owned Edge Act subsidiary, American Express Bank International (“AEBI”), is headquartered in Miami, Florida, and has branches in New York City and Miami.  

Banking Services—Risks  

The global nature of AEB’s business activities is such that concentrations of credit to geographic regions are not unusual. AEB continually monitors and actively manages its credit concentrations to reduce the associated risk. The Private Bank’s loans are generally secured by liquid, marketable collateral. FIG controls its exposures by limiting its relationships to select banks and limiting its exposures to such banks to quantitative limits (by obligor, by country and by exposure type) that are periodically re-evaluated; such exposures also typically carry a short-term tenure and are trade-related, which generally has a lower risk profile.  

AEB’s earnings are sensitive to interest rates because the repricing of its liabilities does not, generally, match the repricing of its assets. AEB invests deposits in excess of loans and the proceeds of investment certificates in highly-rated investment securities. It maintains mandatory investment portfolios in a number of countries as required by central banks. AEB monitors and controls its assets-liability mismatches both on a country and global level through a rigorous Earnings at Risk process and manages the mismatch of assets and liabilities by adjusting the repricing frequency of its investments or by using derivatives.  

AEB sells foreign exchange, interest rate and equity products to its customer base and may decide to take short-term proprietary trading positions as a result of this business. The foreign exchange, interest rate and equity risk is managed at the branch and global level through a comprehensive Value at Risk process. AEB manages counterparty credit exposure on foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives through a dynamic mark-to-market and potential future exposure process, in which the current fair value and potential future exposure are calculated and managed against counterparty loan equivalent limits.  

Because AEB conducts significant business in emerging market countries and in countries that are less politically and economically stable than the United States or those in Western Europe, its Private Banking, Financial Advisory Services and FIG activities may be subject to greater credit and compliance risks than are found in more well-developed jurisdictions. AEB continually monitors its exposures in such jurisdictions, and regularly evaluates its client base to identify potential legal risks as a result of clients’ use of AEB’s banking services.   

34  

Banking Services—Competition  

The banking services of AEB are subject to vigorous competition everywhere AEB operates. Competitors include local and international banks whose assets often exceed those of AEB, other financial institutions and, in certain cases, governmental agencies.  

Banking Services—Regulation  

American Express Banking Corp. (“AEBC”) is a New York investment company organized under Article XII of the New York Banking Law and is a wholly owned direct subsidiary of American Express. AEBL is a wholly owned direct subsidiary of AEBC. AEBC, AEBL and AEBL’s global network of offices and subsidiaries are subject to continuous supervision and examination by the New York State Banking Department (“NYSBD”) pursuant to the New York Banking Law. AEBC does not directly engage in banking activities. AEBL’s branches, representative offices and subsidiaries are licensed and regulated in the jurisdictions in which they do business and are subject to the same local requirements as other competitors that have the same license.  

Since AEBC and AEBL do not do business in the United States, except as may be incidental to their activities outside the United States, our affiliation with AEBC and AEBL does not require us to register as a bank holding company under Regulation Y promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”). AEBC and AEBL are not members of the Federal Reserve System, are not subject to supervision by the FDIC, and are not subject to any of the restrictions imposed by the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 other than anti-tying rules with respect to transactions involving products and services of certain of its affiliates. AEBC and AEBL are not financial holding companies under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.  

The NYSBD requires AEBC, on a consolidated basis, to monitor its financial condition and maintain risk-based and leverage capital in accordance with minimum thresholds established by the NYSBD. At year-end 2007, AEB had Tier One, Total and Leverage capital (as those terms are defined under the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-based capital guidelines) that exceeded the minimum standards established by the NYSBD. Additionally, AEB is not required to comply on a consolidated basis with the Advanced Internal Ratings Based Approach incorporated in the Basel II Capital Accord Framework published in June 2004. AEB monitors developments with respect to the implementation of the Basel II Capital Accord in jurisdictions where its branch and subsidiary network is located.  

Immediately prior to the sale of AEBL to Standard Chartered as discussed above AEBL will transfer to AEBC its banking business in Greece and Card and related businesses in India. Following the sale, AEBC will directly own and operate these businesses. AEBC will continue to be regulated by the NYSBD in a manner similar to the regulation described above.  

In recent years, U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities, together with international organizations, have raised increasing concerns over the ability of criminal organizations and corrupt persons to use global financial intermediaries to facilitate money laundering. In the United States, the Secretary of the Treasury has issued regulations pursuant to the Patriot Act that specifically impact certain money laundering prevention activities of entities involved, as AEBL is, in correspondent and private banking activities. Compliance efforts to combat money laundering remain a high priority for AEBL, and it has increased its efforts to address evolving regulatory and supervisory standards and requirements in jurisdictions in which it does business. For a further discussion of anti-money laundering regulation and our recent settlement relating to deficiencies in our anti-money laundering program, see “Regulation—General” within “Corporate & Other” above and “Legal Proceedings—Other Matters” below.  

 SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR SERVICES  

You can find information regarding the Company’s reportable operating segments, geographic operations and classes of similar services in Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which appears on pages 108-110 of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is incorporated herein by reference.  

35  

 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY  

Set forth below is a list of all our executive officers as of February 28, 2008. None of our executive officers has any family relationship with any other executive officer, and none of our executive officers became an officer pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any other person. Each executive officer has been elected to serve until the next annual election of officers or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. Each officer’s age is indicated by the number in parentheses next to his or her name.  

 KENNETH I. CHENAULT -   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

  Mr. Chenault (56) has been Chairman since April 2001 and Chief Executive Officer since January 2001.  

 L. KEVIN COX -   Executive Vice President, Human Resources 

  Mr. Cox (44) has been Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company since April 2005. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President of The Pepsi Bottling Group since September 2004. Prior thereto, he had been Senior Vice President, Human Resources of such company since March 1999. 

 EDWARD P. GILLIGAN -   Vice Chairman 

  Mr. Gilligan (48) has been Vice Chairman of the Company and head of the Company’s Global Business-to-Business Group since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Group President, American Express International & Global Corporate Services since July 2005. Prior thereto, he had been Group President, Global Corporate Services since June 2000 and Group President, Global Corporate Services & International Payments, since July 2003. 

 ASHWINI GUPTA -   Executive Vice President, Chief Risk Officer and President of Risk, Information Management and Banking 

  Mr. Gupta (54) has been Executive Vice President, Chief Risk Officer and President of Risk, Information Management and Banking since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Company since July 2003. 

 JOHN D. HAYES -   Executive Vice President, Global Advertising and Brand Management and Chief Marketing Officer 

  Mr. Hayes (53) has been Executive Vice President, Global Advertising and Brand Management since May 1995 and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company since August 2003. 

 DANIEL T. HENRY -   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

  Mr. Henry (58) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since October 2007. Since February 2007, Mr. Henry had been serving as Executive Vice President and Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Consumer, Small Business and Merchant Services since October 2005 and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Consumer and Small Business Services since August 2000. 

 ALFRED F. KELLY, JR. -   President 

  Mr. Kelly (49) has been President of the Company and head of the Company’s Global Consumer Group since July 2007. Prior thereto, he was Group President, Consumer, Small Business and Merchant Services since October 2005. Prior thereto, he had been President, U.S. Consumer and Small Business Services since June 2000.  

36  

 JUDSON C. LINVILLE -   President and Chief Executive Officer, U.S. Consumer Services.  

Mr. Linville (50) has been President and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Consumer Services, since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had been President, U.S. Consumer Card Services Group from 2005 through 2007. Prior thereto, he was Executive Vice President, Service Delivery Network from 2001 through 2005.  

 LOUISE M. PARENT -   Executive Vice President and General Counsel  

Ms. Parent (57) has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel since May 1993.  

 THOMAS SCHICK -   Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Communications  

Mr. Schick (61) has been Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Communications since March 1993.  

 STEPHEN SQUERI -   Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer  

Mr. Squeri (48) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since May 2005. Prior thereto, he had been President, Global Commercial Card – Global Corporate Services since January 2002.  

 EMPLOYEES  

We had approximately 67,700 employees on December 31, 2007.  

  ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS