Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Cash, Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities and Interest Income Risk  

Our bank deposits and time deposits are generally held with large, diverse financial institutions worldwide with high investment grade credit ratings, which we believe mitigates certain risks. In addition, we purchase high quality debt security investments, approximately 45% of which have maturity dates within one year and 55% of which have maturity dates within one to four years as of May 31, 2014 (see a description of our debt securities held in Note 3 and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” above). Interest rate movements can impact the valuation of our debt securities but are presently not significant to our valuations considering the current interest rate environment and the duration of our portfolio. Substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. We generally do not use our investments for trading purposes.  

Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. For fiscal 2014, total interest income was $263 million with our cash, cash  

74  

Table of Contents 

 equivalents and marketable investments yielding an average 0.79% on a worldwide basis. The table below presents the approximate fair values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at May 31, 2014 and 2013.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest Expense Risk  

Our total borrowings were $24.2 billion as of May 31, 2014, consisting of $23.7 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $500 million of floating rate borrowings. In July 2013, we issued €2.0 billion ($2.7 billion as of May 31, 2014) of fixed rate senior notes and $3.0 billion of senior notes comprised of $500 million of floating rate notes and $2.5 billion of fixed rate notes as described in the “Recent Financing Activities” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7) in this Annual Report. 

In July 2013, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our $1.5 billion of 2.375% senior notes due January 2019 (2019 Notes) so that the interest payable on the 2019 Notes effectively became variable based on LIBOR. In September 2009, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our $1.5 billion of 3.75% senior notes due July 2014 (2014 Notes) so that the interest payable on the 2014 Notes effectively became variable based on LIBOR. The critical terms of the interest rate swap agreements and the 2019 Notes and 2014 Notes that the interest rate swap agreements pertain to match, including the notional amounts and maturity dates. We do not use these interest rate swap arrangements or our fixed rate borrowings for trading purposes. We are accounting for these interest rate swap agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. Additional details regarding our senior notes and related interest rate swap agreements are included in Note 8 and Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  

By entering into these interest rate swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon LIBOR. As of May 31, 2014, our 2014 Notes and 2019 Notes had effective interest rates of 1.29% and 0.88%, respectively, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements. Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our statements of operations. An interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. As of May 31, 2014, if LIBOR-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the change would increase our interest expense annually by approximately $22 million as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements and floating rate borrowings.  

Currency Risk  

Foreign Currency Transaction and Translation Risks—Foreign Currency Borrowings and Related Hedges  

In July 2013, we issued €1.25 billion of 2.25% notes due January 2021 (2021 Notes) and we entered into certain cross-currency swap agreements to manage the related foreign exchange risk by effectively converting the fixed-rate Euro denominated debt, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to a fixed-rate, U.S. Dollar denominated debt. The economic effect of the swap agreements was to eliminate the uncertainty of the cash flows in U.S. Dollars associated with the 2021 Notes by fixing the principal amount of the 2021 Notes at $1.6 billion with an annual interest rate of 3.53%.  

75  

Table of Contents 

In July 2013, we also issued €750 million of 3.125% notes due July 2025 (2025 Notes). We designated the 2025 Notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the Euro as their functional currency in order to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the Euro with respect to the U.S. Dollar. As a result, the change in the carrying value of the Euro denominated 2025 Notes due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on the effective portion is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Annual Report and totaled $34 million of net other comprehensive losses for fiscal 2014. Any remaining change in the carrying value of the 2025 Notes representing the ineffective portion of the net investment hedge is recognized in non-operating (expense) income, net. We did not record any ineffectiveness during fiscal 2014.  

Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Euro and the U.S. Dollar will impact the amount of U.S. Dollars that we will require to settle the 2025 Notes at maturity. If the U.S. Dollar weakened by 10% in comparison to the Euro as of May 31, 2014, our obligation to settle the 2025 Notes in U.S. Dollars would have increased by approximately $102 million.  

Foreign Currency Transaction Risk—Foreign Currency Forward Contracts  

We transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. Under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. We may suspend this program from time to time. Our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions. Our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration.  

We neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to ASC 815. Accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. Given the short duration of the forward contracts, the amount recorded is not significant. The balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for a net unrealized gain position and other current liabilities for a net unrealized loss position. The statement of operations classification for changes in fair values of these forward contracts is non-operating (expense) income, net for both realized and unrealized gains and losses.  

We expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. As of May 31, 2014 and 2013, the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.6 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. As of May 31, 2014 and 2013, the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $2.0 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. The fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at May 31, 2014 and 2013. Net foreign exchange transaction losses included in non-operating (expense) income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $375 million, $162 million and $105 million in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Included in the net foreign exchange transaction losses for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 were foreign currency losses relating to our Venezuelan subsidiary’s operations, which are more thoroughly described under “Non-Operating (Expense) Income, net” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above. As a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are unknown.  

76  

Table of Contents 

Foreign Currency Translation Risk—Impact on Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities  

Fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into U.S. Dollars. In particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Annual Report).  

As the U.S. Dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2014, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for foreign subsidiaries that hold international currencies as of May 31, 2014 decreased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of May 31, 2013. As reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effect of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in U.S. Dollars for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 were decreases of $158 million, $110 million and $471 million, respectively. The following table includes estimates of the U.S. Dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in certain major foreign currencies as of May 31, 2014:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

If overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the U.S. Dollar uniformly weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in U.S. Dollars would decrease by approximately $802 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances.  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data