Item 1A.    Risk Factors    

 We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as our “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7), highlights some of these risks.  

 The effects of the current recession and the recent global economic crisis may impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or stock price. The current recession and recent global economic crisis have caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price.  

 For example, current or potential customers may reduce their IT spending or be unable to fund software or services purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services.  

 14   
 In some financial markets, institutions may decrease or discontinue their purchase of the long-term customer financing contracts that we have traditionally sold on a non-recourse basis. As a result, we may hold more of these contracts ourselves or require more customers to purchase our products and services on a cash basis.  

 In addition, financial institution weakness or failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities or financing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions and the timing and amount of any future dividend declarations or repurchases of our common stock or our debt).  

 Finally, our investment portfolio, which includes short-term debt securities, is generally subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected.  

 Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 A general weakening of, or declining corporate confidence in, the global economy, or a curtailment in government or corporate spending could delay or decrease customer purchases. In addition, terrorist attacks around the world, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. These factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses and related services and, to a lesser extent, also affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support.  

 We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. Our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the “conversion rate” or “closure rate” of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. A contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. In particular, a slowdown in IT spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. The conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate and execute these contracts in a timely manner. In addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for one or two quarters following the acquisition, and their conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different from their historical conversion rate.  

 A substantial portion of our new software license revenue contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are large orders. Because our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. The number of large new software license transactions also increases the risk of fluctuation in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small  

 15   
 number of these transactions could cause our quarterly new software license revenues to fall significantly short of our predictions.  

 Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. Rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware, software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise software market in which we compete. If we are unable to develop new products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or purchase or renew software license updates and product support contracts. Renewals of these support contracts are an important factor in the growing software license update and product support segment of our business. In addition, IT standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. We cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas.  

 We are currently building Oracle Fusion Applications, which are being designed to unify best-of-business capabilities from all Oracle applications in a complete suite. We have also announced that we intend to extend the life of many of our acquired products and will continue to provide long-term support for many of our acquired products, both of which require us to dedicate resources. If we do not develop and release these new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service, if we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services, our business may be adversely affected.  

 Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. An active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate strategy, and we expect to continue to make similar acquisitions in the future, including our currently pending acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include:  

    •   our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities;   

    •   an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may pay more than the acquired company or assets are ultimately worth or we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected, which could adversely affect our business or operating results;   

    •   we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired company’s technologies or lines of business or (ii) entering new markets, in each case where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions;   

    •   our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or by other circumstances related to an acquisition, including claims related to an acquired business or technology from government agencies, terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company’s practices; and intellectual property disputes;   

    •   we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition;    

 16   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions.  

 Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the United States. Our international operations include software development, sales, customer support, consulting, On Demand and shared administrative service centers.  

 Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, and export requirements. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. We monitor our international operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are  

 17   
 recorded. Where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities.  

 We are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 As the majority shareholder of Oracle Financial Services Software Limited (formerly i-flex solutions limited), a publicly traded Indian software company focused on the banking industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control or obtain financial and other information on a timely basis.  

 We may experience foreign currency gains and losses. We conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, Japanese Yen and British Pound relative to the U.S. Dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. Our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. Our revenues and operating results in fiscal 2009 have been unfavorably affected by the recent strengthening U.S. Dollar relative to other major foreign currencies.  

 Our foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other agreements among us and our subsidiaries and distributors, are charged against earnings in the period incurred. We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain transaction and translation exposures in major currencies, but we will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures.  

 We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the United States. If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive.  

 Third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. We periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. We expect the number of such claims will increase as:  

    •   we continue to acquire companies;   

    •   the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows;    

 18   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Specific patent infringement cases are discussed under Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. We rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and founder, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In the software industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. In addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at Oracle. We may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. Members of our senior management team have left Oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations.  

 We continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. We may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and/or increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. Part of our total compensation program includes stock options which are an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. If our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. In addition, because we expense all stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and other compensation practices. Some of the changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation. Any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel.  

 We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. The intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. Our software license updates and product support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software license fees. Our competitors may offer lower percentage pricing on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices.  

 19   
 Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and services revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. If we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our new software license revenues could decrease. Additionally, increased distribution of applications through application service providers, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers, may reduce the average price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our products, reducing new software license revenues unless we can offset price reductions with volume increases. The increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models.  

 We may be unable to compete effectively within the highly competitive software industry. Many vendors develop and market databases, internet application server products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products that compete with our offerings. In addition, several companies offer business process outsourcing (BPO) and SaaS as competitive alternatives to buying software, and customer interest in BPO and SaaS solutions is increasing. Some of these competitors have greater financial or technical resources than we do. Our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer’s purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. We could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. Vendors that offer BPO or SaaS solutions may persuade our customers not to purchase our products. We may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives, in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. Existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense.  

 Disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. Our indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. Our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our marketing and sales efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial condition of our channel participants were to weaken. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. If we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues.  

 Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. In fiscal 2010, we will adopt FASB Statement No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations and FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 141(R)-1 Accounting for Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combinations That Arise from Contingencies. Accounting for our acquisitions pursuant to Statement 141(R) is significantly different than how we have historically accounted for our acquisitions under existing accounting principles and these differences could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. The more significant differences include how we account for restructuring liabilities associated with an acquisition, costs incurred to effect the acquisition, changes in estimates of income tax valuation allowances and liabilities for uncertain tax positions associated with an acquisition, and how we reflect goodwill adjustments in comparative financial statements, among others. A more thorough discussion of our accounting for these and other items is presented in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7).  

 For any business combination that is consummated pursuant to Statement 141(R), we will recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. After we  

 20   
 complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. Charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities.  

 Our periodic workforce restructurings can be disruptive. We have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. In the past, sales force and other restructurings have generally resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. These effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected.  

 We might experience significant errors or security flaws in our products and services. Despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. In addition, we run our own business operations, Oracle On Demand and other outsourcing services, support and consulting services, on our products and networks and any security flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to conduct internal business operations. End users, who rely on our products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. Software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. In addition, we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches of our services, which could adversely impact future business prospects for those services.  

 We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing and localizing software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant  

 21   
 amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all.  

 Our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. We derive revenues from contracts with the United States government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause.  

 There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the United States Congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. Similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations.  

 Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business.  

 Business disruptions could affect our operating results. A significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas. We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our On Demand offerings. A major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected.  

 There are risks associated with our outstanding indebtedness. As of May 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of $10.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between 2010 and 2038, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.  

 We may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. Should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our U.S. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on outstanding or future debt. These risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

 Adverse litigation results could affect our business. We are subject to various legal proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with certainty. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under Note 17 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities.  

 Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as the recent proposal by President Obama’s Administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate.  

 In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Our intercompany transfer  

 22   
 pricing is currently being reviewed by the IRS and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. We previously negotiated three unilateral Advance Pricing Agreements with the IRS that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the IRS from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements. These agreements are effective for fiscal years through May 31, 2006. We have submitted to the IRS a request for renewal of this Advance Pricing Agreement for the years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31, 2011. However, these agreements do not cover all elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities outside the United States. We have finalized one bilateral Advance Pricing Agreement, which was effective for the years ending May 31, 2002 through May 31, 2006 and we have submitted a renewal for the years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31, 2011. There can be no guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement. During the fiscal year ended May 31, 2009, we concluded an additional bilateral agreement to cover the period from June 1, 2001 through January 25, 2008.  

 Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  

 We are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. Our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures.  

 Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand may not be successful. We offer Oracle On Demand outsourcing services for our applications and database technology, delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or customer facilities. We also offer CRM On Demand, which is a service offering that provides our customers with our CRM software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage. These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues, develop them into profitable businesses or maintain their profitability. We incur expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand businesses in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. These businesses are subject to a variety of additional risks, including:  

    •   we manage critical customer applications, data and other confidential information through Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant damage claims and risk to Oracle’s brand and future business prospects in the event of system failures, inadequate disaster recovery or loss or misappropriation of customer confidential information;   

    •   we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data privacy, data security and export compliance;   

    •   the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security and use of global resources; changes in these laws could affect our ability to provide services from or to some locations and could increase both the costs and risks associated with providing the services;   

    •   demand for these services may not meet our expectations and may be affected by customer and media concerns about security risks, international transfers of data, government or other third-party access to data, and/or use of outsourced services providers more generally; and   

    •   our offerings may require large fixed costs for data centers, computers, network infrastructure, security and otherwise, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset these costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these offerings.    

 Our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. All of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. Changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends  

 23   
 unrelated to our performance. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business.  

  Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments    

 None.  

  Item 2.    Properties