Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 We begin Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key operating business segments and significant trends. This overview is followed by a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition.  

 27   
 Business Overview  

 We are the world’s largest enterprise software company. We develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software as well as applications software designed to help our customers manage and grow their business operations. We believe our internal, or organic, growth and continued innovation with respect to our software products and services offerings provide the foundation for our long-term strategic plan. We invest billions of dollars in research and development each year to enhance our existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new products, features and services. Our internally developed offerings have been enhanced by our acquisitions.  

 We are organized into two businesses, software and services, which are further divided into five operating segments. Each of these operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our actual results in U.S. Dollars, we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our five operating segments follows.  

 Software Business  

 Our software business, which represented 81%, 80% and 79% of our total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software license revenues and (2) software license updates and product support revenues. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our software business revenues generally will continue to increase due to continued demand for our products, including the high percentage of customers that renew their software license updates and product support contracts, and due to our acquisitions, which should allow us to grow our profits and continue to make investments in research and development.  

 New Software Licenses: We license our database and middleware as well as our applications software to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. The growth in new software license revenues that we report is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software products, our acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. Our new software license business is also characterized by long sales cycles. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software license revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of the timing of a few large software license transactions, we believe that analysis of new software license revenues on a trailing 4-quarter period (as provided in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q) provides additional visibility into the underlying performance of our new software license business. New software license revenues represented 31%, 34% and 33% of our total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our new software license margins have historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs are predominantly fixed in the short term. However, our new software license margins have been and will continue to be affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies that we have acquired.  

 Competition in the software business is intense. Our goal is to maintain a first or second position in each of our software product categories and certain industry segments as well as to grow our software revenues faster than our competitors. We believe that the features and functionality of our software products are as strong as they have ever been. We have focused on lowering the total cost of ownership of our software products by improving integration, decreasing installation times, lowering administration costs and improving the ease of use. In addition, our broad portfolio of product offerings (many of which have been acquired in recent years) helps us to offer customers the ability to gain efficiencies by consolidating their IT “software stack” with a single vendor, which reduces the number of disparate software vendors with which customers interact. Reducing the total cost of ownership of our products provides our customers with a higher return on their IT investments, which we believe creates more demand for our products and services and provides us with a competitive advantage. We have also continued to focus on improving the overall quality of our software products and service levels. We believe this will lead to higher customer satisfaction and loyalty and help us achieve our goal of becoming our customers’ leading technology advisor.  

 28   
 Software License Updates and Product Support: Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period, as well as technical support assistance. In addition, we offer Oracle Unbreakable Linux Support, which provides enterprise level support for the Linux operating system, and also offer support for our Oracle VM server virtualization software. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by three factors: (1) the percentage of our support contract customer base that renews its support contracts, (2) the amount of new support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses, and (3) the amount of support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired.  

 Software license updates and product support revenues, which represented 50%, 46% and 46% of our total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, is our highest margin business unit. Support margins during fiscal 2009 were 84%, and accounted for 81% of our total margins over the same period. Our software license update and product support margins have been affected by fair value adjustments relating to support obligations assumed in business combinations (described further below) and by amortization of intangible assets. However, over the longer term, we believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will grow for the following reasons:  

    •   substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when eligible for renewal;   

    •   substantially all of our customers purchase license updates and product support contracts when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our support contract base. Even if new software license revenue growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods assuming renewal and cancellation rates and foreign currency rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software license transactions add to our support contract base; and   

    •   our acquisitions have increased our support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and supported.    

 We record adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in business acquisitions to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of $243 million, $179 million and $212 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. To the extent underlying support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year.  

 Services Business  

 Our services business consists of consulting, On Demand and education. Our services business, which represented 19%, 20% and 21% of our total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, has significantly lower margins than our software business.  

 Consulting: Our consulting line of business provides services to customers in business/IT strategy alignment; business process simplification; solution integration; and product implementation, enhancements, and upgrades of our database, middleware and applications software. The amount of consulting revenues recognized tends to lag software revenue recognition by several quarters since consulting services, if purchased, are typically performed after the purchase of new software licenses. Our consulting revenues are dependent upon general economic conditions and the level of new software license sales, particularly our application product sales. To the extent we are able to grow our new software license revenues, in particular our application product revenues, we would also generally expect to be able to grow our consulting revenues.  

 On Demand: On Demand includes Oracle On Demand and our Advanced Customer Services offerings. We believe that our On Demand offerings provide our customers flexibility in how they manage their IT environments and an additional opportunity to lower their total cost of ownership and can therefore provide us with a competitive  

 29   
 advantage. Recently, we have grown the base of customers that have purchased our On Demand services and to the extent we are able to continue this trend, we would expect our On Demand revenues and margins to increase. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in our On Demand business to support current and future revenue growth, which historically has negatively impacted On Demand margins and may do so in the future.  

 Education: The purpose of our education services is to further the adoption and usage of our software products by our customers and to create opportunities to grow our software revenues. Education revenues are impacted by general economic conditions, personnel reductions in our customers’ information technology departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and greater use of outsourcing solutions. We believe the recent global economic environment has unfavorably affected customer demand for our education services in comparison to prior years, which has negatively impacted our revenues and margins.  

 Acquisitions  

 An active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies.  

 On April 19, 2009, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) with Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun), a provider of enterprise computing systems, software and services. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, our wholly owned subsidiary will merge with and into Sun and Sun will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Oracle. Upon the consummation of the merger, each share of Sun common stock will be converted into the right to receive $9.50 in cash. In addition, options to acquire Sun common stock, Sun restricted stock unit awards and other equity-based awards denominated in shares of Sun common stock outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of the merger will generally be converted into options, restricted stock unit awards or other equity-based awards, as the case may be, denominated in shares of Oracle common stock based on formulas contained in the Merger Agreement. The estimated total purchase price of Sun is approximately $7.4 billion. This transaction is subject to Sun stockholder approval, regulatory clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the applicable merger control laws of the European Commission and other jurisdictions, and other customary closing conditions.  

 We believe our acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our recent acquisitions.  

 We believe we can fund our pending and future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our existing debt capacity, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.  

 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

 Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following:  

    •   Revenue Recognition   

    •   Business Combinations    

 30   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management’s judgment in its application. There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed the below critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  

 Revenue Recognition  

 We derive revenues from the following sources: (1) software, which includes new software license and software license updates and product support revenues, and (2) services, which include consulting, On Demand and education revenues.  

 New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and applications software, and exclude revenues derived from software license updates, which are included in software license updates and product support. While the basis for software license revenue recognition is substantially governed by the provisions of Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of software and services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period.  

 For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, we recognize new software license revenue when: (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable. Substantially all of our new software license revenues are recognized in this manner.  

 The vast majority of our software license arrangements include software license updates and product support, which are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers. Software license updates and product support are generally priced as a percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase both software license updates and product support when they acquire new software licenses. In addition, substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually.  

 Many of our software arrangements include consulting implementation services sold separately under consulting engagement contracts. Consulting revenues from these arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as service transactions as defined in SOP 97-2. The more significant factors considered in determining whether the revenue should be accounted for separately include the nature of services (i.e., consideration of whether the services are essential to the functionality of the licensed product), degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors, timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance criteria on the realizability of the software license fee. Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment for the consulting services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional performance on contracts with fixed or “not to exceed” fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. If we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards completion, revenue is recognized when we receive final acceptance from the  

 31   
 customer. When total cost estimates exceed revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using cost estimates that are based upon an average fully burdened daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering the services. The complexity of the estimation process and factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the proportional performance method of accounting affects the amounts of revenues and related expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes.  

 If an arrangement does not qualify for separate accounting of the software license and consulting transactions, then new software license revenues are generally recognized together with the consulting services based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method. Contract accounting is applied to any arrangements: (1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance criteria that may affect collection of the software license fees; (2) where services include significant modification or customization of the software; (3) where significant consulting services are provided for in the software license contract without additional charge or are substantially discounted; or (4) where the software license payment is tied to the performance of consulting services.  

 On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance services for our database, middleware and applications software delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services provide customers with solution lifecycle management services, database and application management services, industry-specific solution support centers and remote and on-site expert services. Revenues from On Demand services are recognized over the term of the service period, which is generally one year.  

 Education revenues include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our products. Education revenues are recognized as the classes or other education offerings are delivered.  

 For arrangements with multiple elements, we allocate revenue to each element of a transaction based upon its fair value as determined by “vendor specific objective evidence.” Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for all elements of an arrangement is based upon the normal pricing and discounting practices for those products and services when sold separately, and for software license updates and product support services is also measured by the renewal rate offered to the customer. We may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in our vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for these undelivered elements. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements could differ significantly from our historical results.  

 For software license arrangements that include hardware, software and services, and the software is more than incidental to the multiple element arrangement, but not essential to the functionality of the hardware, we apply the guidance of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03-5, Applicability of AICPA Statement of Position 97-2 to Non-Software Deliverables in an Arrangement Containing More-Than-Incidental Software, which allows the non-software elements and related services to be accounted for pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition (Topic 13), and EITF 00-21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, and the software license and related services to be accounted for pursuant to SOP 97-2.  

 We defer revenues for any undelivered elements, and recognize revenues when the product is delivered or over the period in which the service is performed, in accordance with our revenue recognition policy for each such element. If we cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in bundled software and service arrangements, we defer revenues until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value of a delivered element has not been established, we use the residual method to record revenue if the fair value of all undelivered elements is determinable. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and is recognized as revenue.  

 Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions exist as part of public policy, for example in agreements with government entities when acceptance periods are required by law, or within previously executed terms and conditions that are referenced in the current agreement and are short-term in nature, we generally recognize revenues upon delivery provided the acceptance  

 32   
 terms are perfunctory and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period.  

 We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities containing “fiscal funding” or “termination for convenience” provisions, when such provisions are required by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation. We consider multiple factors, including the history with the customer in similar transactions, the “essential use” of the software licenses and the planning, budgeting and approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we determine upon execution of these arrangements that the likelihood of cancellation is remote, we then recognize revenues once all of the criteria described above have been met. If such a determination cannot be made, revenues are recognized upon the earlier of cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding provision by the governmental entity.  

 We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of sale and recognize revenues if all other revenue recognition requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are net 30 days. However, payment terms may vary based on the country in which the agreement is executed. Payments that are due within six months are generally deemed to be fixed or determinable based on our successful collection history on such arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for revenue recognition.  

 While most of our arrangements include short-term payment terms, we have a standard practice of providing long-term financing to credit worthy customers through our financing division. Since fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have established a history of collection, without concessions, on these receivables with payment terms that generally extend up to five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software license revenues for these arrangements upon delivery, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have generally sold receivables financed through our financing division on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions. We account for the sale of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.  

 Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations from these vendors at or about the same time that we have licensed our software to these same companies (Concurrent Transaction). Software license agreements that occur within a three-month time period from the date we have purchased goods or services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase separately from any software license transaction, at terms we consider to be at arm’s length, and settle the purchase in cash. We recognize new software license revenues from Concurrent Transactions if all of our revenue recognition criteria are met and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our current operations.  

 Business Combinations  

 Fiscal 2009 and Prior Periods  

 In accordance with FASB Statement No. 141, Business Combinations, we allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as well as to in-process research and development based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The purchase price allocation process requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible assets, support obligations assumed, estimated restructuring liabilities and pre-acquisition contingencies.  

 Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to:  

    •   future expected cash flows from software license sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents;    

 33   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results.  

 In connection with the purchase price allocations for our acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of the support obligations assumed. The estimated fair value of the support obligations is determined utilizing a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The estimated costs to fulfill the support obligations are based on the historical direct costs related to providing the support services and to correct any errors in the software products acquired. The sum of these costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume the support obligation. We do not include any costs associated with selling efforts or research and development or the related fulfillment margins on these costs. Profit associated with any selling efforts is excluded because the acquired entities would have concluded those selling efforts on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date. We also do not include the estimated research and development costs in our fair value determinations, as these costs are not deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of acquisition.  

 As a result, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $243 million, $179 million and $212 million that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year. Had we included costs for our estimated selling and research and development activities and the associated margin for unspecified product upgrades and enhancements to be provided under our assumed support arrangements, the fair values of the support obligations would have been significantly higher than what we had recorded and we would have recorded a higher amount of software license updates and product support revenues both historically and in future periods related to these assumed support arrangements.  

 Other significant estimates associated with the accounting for business combinations include restructuring costs. Restructuring costs are typically comprised of severance costs, costs of consolidating duplicate facilities and contract termination costs. Restructuring expenses are based upon plans that have been committed to by management, but are generally subject to refinement during the purchase price allocation period (generally within one year of the acquisition date). To estimate restructuring expenses, management utilizes assumptions of the number of employees that would be involuntarily terminated and of future costs to operate and eventually vacate duplicate facilities. Estimated restructuring expenses may change as management executes the approved plan. Decreases to the cost estimates of executing the currently approved plans associated with pre-merger activities of the companies we acquire are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill indefinitely, whereas increases to the estimates are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill during the purchase price allocation period and as operating expenses thereafter.  

 For a given acquisition, we may identify certain pre-acquisition contingencies. If, during the purchase price allocation period, we are able to determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency, we will include that amount in the purchase price allocation. If, as of the end of the purchase price allocation period, we are unable to determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency, we will evaluate whether to include an amount in the purchase price allocation based on whether it is probable a liability had been incurred and whether an amount can be reasonably estimated. Through fiscal 2009, after the end of the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment to amounts recorded for a pre-acquisition contingency, with the exception of unresolved income tax matters, were included in our operating results in the period in which the adjustment was determined.  

 34   
 Fiscal 2010  

 In fiscal 2010, we will adopt FASB Statement No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations. For any business combination that is consummated pursuant to Statement 141(R), including our proposed acquisition of Sun described above, we will recognize separately from goodwill, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree generally at their acquisition date fair values as defined by FASB Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.  

 The determination of fair value will require our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, with respect to intangible assets acquired, support obligations assumed, and pre-acquisition contingencies. The assumptions and estimates used in determining the fair values of these items will be substantially similar upon our adoption of Statement 141(R) as they were under Statement 141 (see above).  

 The below discussion lists those areas of Statement 141(R) that we believe, upon our adoption, require us to apply additional, significant estimates and assumptions.  

 Upon our adoption of Statement 141(R), any changes to deferred tax asset valuation allowances and liabilities related to uncertain tax positions will be recorded in current period income tax expense, unless any such changes are identified during the measurement period (defined as the period, not to exceed one year, in which we may adjust the provisional amounts recognized for a business combination) and relate to new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date. Our estimates for the ultimate outcome of income tax matters are based on the best information available to us as of the acquisition date and corresponding measurement period. Additional information may become available subsequent to the acquisition date and corresponding measurement period, which may require us to revise our estimates for these income tax matters. Such estimate revisions that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments will be recorded to our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of operations in the period the revision is made and could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.  

 Upon our adoption of Statement 141(R), we will account for one-time termination and exit costs associated with prospective acquisitions pursuant to FASB Statement No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Statement 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred. In order to incur a liability pursuant to Statement 146, our management must have established and approved a plan of restructuring in sufficient detail. A liability for a cost associated with involuntary termination benefits is recorded when benefits have been communicated and a liability for a cost to terminate an operating lease or other contract are incurred when the contract has been terminated in accordance with the contract terms or we have ceased using the right conveyed by the contract, such as vacating a leased facility. Statement 146 requires the use of assumptions and estimates, including estimated sub-lease payments to be received, which can differ materially from actual results. This may require us to revise our estimated liabilities and may materially affect our results of operations and financial position in the period the revision is made. In addition, the recognition of liabilities pursuant to Statement 146 are subject to certain criteria being met, such as the communication of benefits to be paid to employees and the cessation of benefits received under existing contracts, amongst others. These criteria can cause variability in the timing of recognition of restructuring liabilities, which could cause us to incur expenses in periods we had not expected and could materially affect our results of operations and financial position.  

 If the initial accounting for a business combination that is accounted for pursuant to Statement 141(R) is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the business combination occurs, we will report the provisional amounts for such items in our consolidated financial statements. During the measurement period, we will adjust the provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date and record those adjustments to our consolidated financial statements. Those measurement period adjustments that we determine to be significant will be applied retrospectively to comparative information in our consolidated financial statements, including adjustments to depreciation, amortization, or other income effects recognized in the initial accounting. Identifying changes to the initial accounting requires our  

 35   
 management to apply judgment in determining whether the subsequent information received relates to facts and circumstances that existed for the provisional items as of the acquisition date, including information that affects the estimated amounts involved. To the extent significant measurement period adjustments are identified, the comparative financial information we present for a reporting period could be materially revised in comparison to that which we had previously presented in our earnings releases and related filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  

 Our adoption of Statement 141(R) in fiscal 2010 will also change how we account for certain other areas of business combinations in comparison to how these areas are currently accounted for pursuant to Statement 141 and related accounting guidance, including the expensing of direct transaction costs.  

 Goodwill and Intangible Assets—Impairment Assessments  

 We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The provisions of Statement 142 require that a two-step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not considered impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference.  

 Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. Our most recent annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, did not result in an impairment charge, nor did we record any goodwill impairment in fiscal 2008 or 2007.  

 We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an other than temporary impairment may exist. Each period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful lives of purchased intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of amortization. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset.  

 Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our intangible and other long-lived assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Although we believe the historical assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported financial results. We did not recognize any intangible asset impairment charges in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007.  

 Accounting for Income Taxes  

 Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying items of revenues and expenses that qualify for preferential tax treatment, and  

 36   
 segregation of foreign and domestic earnings and expenses to avoid double taxation. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such determination is made.  

 Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Remittances of foreign earnings to the U.S. are planned based on projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of our foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the U.S. and provide U.S. federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates or tax legislation that limits or restricts the amount of undistributed foreign earnings that we consider indefinitely reinvested outside the United States could impact our effective tax rate.  

 We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider future growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets valuation allowance would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such a determination. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided valuation allowance.  

 We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed and the global tax implications are known, which can materially impact our effective tax rate.  

 The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We account for our uncertain tax issues pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), which contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is to determine if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given with respect to the final outcome of these matters. We adjust reserves for our uncertain tax positions due to changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, refinement of estimates or realization of earnings or deductions that differ from our estimates. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which such a determination is made. Our provisions for income taxes include the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate and also include the related interest and penalties.  

 As a part of our accounting for business combinations, some of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and intangible assets. Impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the period that any impairment is recorded. Amortization expenses associated with acquired intangible assets are generally not tax deductible pursuant to our existing tax structure; however, deferred taxes have been recorded for non-deductible amortization expenses as a part of the purchase price allocation process. We have taken into account the allocation of these identified intangibles among different taxing jurisdictions, including those with nominal or zero percent tax rates, in establishing the related deferred tax liabilities.  

 As described in the “Business Combinations” section above, through fiscal 2009, income tax contingencies that exist as of the acquisition date for an acquired company are evaluated quarterly and any changes are recorded as adjustments to goodwill. For fiscal 2010, we will make our best estimate of income tax contingencies that we  

 37   
 assumed from our legacy acquisitions, and that we will assume from any future acquisitions, as of the acquisition date and during the related measurement period and we will reassess our estimates quarterly. Subsequent to the measurement period, adjustments to these income tax contingencies will affect our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of operations and could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.  

 Legal and Other Contingencies  

 We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether the amount of an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Such revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.  

 Stock-Based Compensation  

 We account for share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock awards and purchases under employee stock purchase plans in accordance with FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, which requires that share-based payments (to the extent they are compensatory) be recognized in our consolidated statements of operations based on their fair values. In addition, we have applied certain of the provisions of the SEC’s Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (Topic 14), as amended, in our accounting for Statement 123(R).  

 We are required to estimate the stock awards that we ultimately expect to vest and to reduce stock-based compensation expense for the effects of estimated forfeitures of awards over the expense recognition period. Although we estimate the rate of future forfeitures upon historical experience, actual forfeitures in the future may differ. In addition, to the extent our actual forfeitures are different than our estimates, we record a true-up for the difference in the period that the awards vest, and such true-ups could materially affect our operating results.  

 As required by Statement 123(R), we recognize stock-based compensation expense for share-based payments issued or assumed after June 1, 2006 that are expected to vest. For all share-based payments granted or assumed beginning June 1, 2006, we recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the service period of the award, which is generally four years. The fair value of the unvested portion of share-based payments granted prior to June 1, 2006 is recognized over the remaining service period using the accelerated expense attribution method, net of estimated forfeitures. In determining whether an award is expected to vest, we use an estimated, forward-looking forfeiture rate based upon our historical forfeiture rates. Stock-based compensation expense recorded using an estimated forfeiture rate is updated for actual forfeitures quarterly. We also consider, each quarter, whether there have been any significant changes in facts and circumstances that would affect our expected forfeiture rate.  

 We estimate the fair value of employee stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The fair value of an award is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as other assumptions including the estimated volatility of our stock price over the term of the awards and the estimated period of time that we expect employees to hold their stock options. The risk-free interest rate assumption we use is based upon United States treasury interest rates appropriate for the expected life of the awards. We use the implied volatility of our publicly traded, longest-term options in order to estimate future stock price trends as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. In order to determine the estimated period of time that we expect employees to hold their stock options, we have used historical rates of employee groups by seniority of job classification. Our expected dividend rate was zero prior to our first dividend declaration in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 as we did not historically pay cash dividends on our common stock and did not anticipate doing so for the foreseeable future for grants issued prior to this declaration date. For grants issued subsequent to this dividend  

 38   
 declaration date, we used an annualized dividend yield based on the per share dividend declared by our Board of Directors. The aforementioned inputs entered into the option valuation model we use to fair value our stock awards are subjective estimates and changes to these estimates will cause the fair value of our stock awards and related stock-based compensation expense we record to vary.  

 We record deferred tax assets for stock-based awards that result in deductions on our income tax returns, based on the amount of stock-based compensation recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a tax deduction. Because the deferred tax assets we record are based upon the stock-based compensation expenses in a particular jurisdiction, the aforementioned inputs that affect the fair value of our stock awards may also indirectly affect our income tax expense. In addition, differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on our income tax returns are recorded in additional paid-in capital. If the tax deduction is less than the deferred tax asset, such shortfalls reduce our pool of excess tax benefits. If the pool of excess tax benefits is reduced to zero, then subsequent shortfalls would increase our income tax expense. Our pool of excess tax benefits is computed in accordance with the alternative transition method as prescribed under FASB Staff Position FAS 123R-3, Transition Election to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards.  

 To the extent we change the terms of our employee stock-based compensation programs, experience market volatility in the pricing of our common stock that increases the implied volatility calculation of our publicly traded, longest-term options or refine different assumptions in future periods such as forfeiture rates that differ from our current estimates, amongst other potential impacts, the stock-based compensation expense that we record in future periods and the tax benefits that we realize may differ significantly from what we have recorded in previous reporting periods.  

 Allowances for Doubtful Accounts  

 We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances for the portion of receivables when collection becomes doubtful. Provisions are made based upon a specific review of all significant outstanding invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable, the collection history associated with the geographic region that the receivable was recorded and current economic trends. If the historical data we use to calculate the allowances for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and our future results of operations could be materially affected.  

 Results of Operations  

 Impact of Acquisitions  

 The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 is impacted by our acquisitions, primarily the acquisition of BEA Systems, Inc. in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.  

 The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 is primarily impacted by our acquisition of Hyperion Solutions Corporation in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and our acquisition of BEA in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.  

 In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, and fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007, we quantify the contribution of our acquired products to the growth in new software license revenues and to the growth in software license updates and product support revenues for the one year period subsequent to the acquisition date. We also present supplemental disclosure related to certain charges and gains. Although certain revenue and expense contributions from our acquisitions are quantifiable, we are unable to identify the following:  

    •   the contribution of the significant majority of our services revenues from acquired companies in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 as the significant majority of these services had been fully integrated into our existing operations; and    

 39   
    •   the contribution of the significant majority of the expenses associated with acquired products and services in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 as the significant majority of these expenses had been fully integrated into our existing operations.    

 We caution readers that the contribution from BEA products, which already have been integrated with Oracle’s Fusion Middleware and are sold together, to our total database and middleware revenues during fiscal 2009 are based on our internal allocations that have been applied consistently.  

 We further caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons as well as the quantified amounts themselves may provide indications of general trends, the information has inherent limitations for the following reasons:  

    •   the quantifications cannot address the substantial effects attributable to our sales force integration efforts, in particular the effect of having a single sales force offer similar products. We believe that if our sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different;   

    •   our acquisitions in the periods presented did not result in our entry into a new line of business or product category—therefore, we provided multiple products with substantially similar features and functionality; and   

    •   although substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal, amounts shown as support deferred revenues in our supplemental disclosure related to certain charges and gains (see below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent customers do not renew.    

 Constant Currency Presentation  

 Our international operations have provided and will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Annual Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e. the rates in effect on May 31, 2008, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on May 31, 2009 and May 31, 2008, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.39 million in fiscal 2009 (using 1.39 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.57 million in fiscal 2008 (using 1.57 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation would translate the fiscal 2009 results using the fiscal 2008 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency.  

 40   
 Total Revenues and Operating Expenses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa   

  (2)   Asia Pacific includes Japan    

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Our operating results for fiscal 2009 were significantly impacted by the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major international currencies. These currency variances resulted in a reduction to our total revenues growth of 6 percentage points during fiscal 2009. On a constant currency basis, total revenues increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to higher software license update and product support revenues in all regions due to the high attachment rate of support contracts to our new software license sales and the renewal of substantially all of our eligible customer support contracts, incremental revenues from our recent acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of BEA in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and increased demand for our On Demand service offerings. On a constant currency basis, new software license revenues contributed 5% to the growth in total revenues, software license updates and product support revenues contributed 92% and services revenues contributed 3%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 39% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA contributed 42% and Asia Pacific contributed 19%.  

 Currency variances resulted in a reduction to our total operating expense growth of 5 percentage points during fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in operating expenses in fiscal 2009 is primarily due to higher salary expenses associated with increased headcount levels from acquisitions (primarily BEA) and higher amortization of intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions (primarily BEA) that we completed since the beginning of fiscal 2008. In addition, acquisition related and other expenses increased during fiscal 2009 due to a $57 million gain on property sale recognized in fiscal 2008, which decreased operating expenses in that period. These increases were partially offset by constant currency decreases in our commissions and bonus expenses.  

 Currency variances resulted in a reduction of 9 percentage points to our total operating margin growth during fiscal 2009. On a constant and reported currency basis, total operating margin and total operating margin as a percentage  

 41   
 of total revenues increased during fiscal 2009 as the growth rate of our total revenues exceeded the growth rate of our total operating expenses. The growth rate in our total operating expenses was significantly impacted by the growth rate in our intangible asset amortization, which was primarily due to intangible assets acquired as a part of the BEA transaction at the end of fiscal 2008, and to a lesser extent, our restructuring expenses growth.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Total revenues increased in fiscal 2008 due to increased demand for our products and services offerings and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. The growth in our total revenues was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008 due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major international currencies. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues contributed 38% to the growth in total revenues, software license updates and product support revenues contributed 45% and services revenues contributed 17%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 50% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA contributed 37% and Asia Pacific contributed 13%.  

 Total operating expenses were adversely affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in operating expenses was primarily due to higher salary and employee benefits associated with increased headcount levels (primarily resulting from our fiscal 2007 acquisitions, our acquisition of Agile Software Corporation in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and, to a lesser extent, our acquisition of BEA in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008), as well as higher commissions and bonuses associated with increased revenues, earnings and headcount levels. In addition, operating expenses also increased in fiscal 2008 due to higher amortization of intangible assets and additional stock-based compensation resulting from a higher fair value of grants (caused primarily by our higher stock price) issued in fiscal 2008 and the acceleration of vesting of certain acquired stock awards upon employee terminations pursuant to the original terms of those awards. Total operating expenses in fiscal 2007 were also reduced by a $52 million benefit as a result of a settlement of an acquired legal contingency from PeopleSoft for less than the amount accrued as of the end of the purchase price allocation period. The increases in operating expenses during fiscal 2008 were partially offset by a $57 million gain on property sale and a $127 million reduction of in-process research and development.  

 Total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during fiscal 2008. The growth in our operating margin in fiscal 2008 was the result of our revenue growth, both organic and from acquisitions, which generally exceeded the growth rate of the majority of our expenses. In addition, our reported operating margin growth was favorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 9 percentage points.  

 Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges and Gains  

 To supplement our consolidated financial information we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under “Impact of Acquisitions” (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.  

 Our operating results include the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions as well as certain other significant expense and income items:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   In connection with purchase price allocations related to our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired    

 42   
     businesses as independent entities, in the amounts of $243 million, $179 million and $212 million in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. Approximately $21 million of estimated software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts assumed will not be recognized in fiscal 2010 that would otherwise be recognized by the acquired businesses as independent entities due to the application of these business combination accounting rules. To the extent customers renew these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contract value over the support renewal period.   

  (2)   Represents the amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisitions, primarily BEA, Hyperion, Siebel and PeopleSoft. As of May 31, 2009, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets, excluding the impact of additional intangible assets through any subsequent acquisitions, such as from our proposed acquisition of Sun, are as follows (in millions):    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (3)   Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of in-process research and development expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, personnel related costs for transitional and other employees, certain business combination adjustments after the purchase price allocation period has ended, and certain other operating expenses (income), net. For fiscal 2008, acquisition related and other expenses include a gain on property sale of $57 million and, for fiscal 2007, acquisition related and other expenses include a benefit of $52 million related to the settlement of a pre-acquisition lawsuit against PeopleSoft (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information). In fiscal 2010, certain of the items that we record to acquisition related and other expenses will change as a result of our adoption of Statement 141(R), which could materially impact our consolidated financial statements (see further discussion in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” above).   

  (4)   Restructuring expenses during fiscal 2009 and 2008 relate to Oracle employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan that was initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and our Fiscal 2008 Oracle Restructuring Plan that was initiated in the second quarter, and amended in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Restructuring costs during fiscal 2007 relate to an Oracle-based restructuring plan initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 for which additional expenses were recorded during fiscal 2007. In connection with any acquisition that we close in fiscal 2010, we will record involuntary termination and other exit costs associated with the acquisition to restructuring expenses as a result of our adoption of Statement 141(R), which is a change from current practice pursuant to existing accounting standards and could materially impact our consolidated financial statements (see further discussion in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” above).   

  (5)   Stock-based compensation is included in the following operating expense line items of our consolidated statements of operations (in millions):    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

     Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested options assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those options.   

  (6)   The income tax effects presented were calculated as if the above described charges were not included in our results of operations for each of the respective periods presented. Income tax effects were calculated reflecting an effective tax rate of 28.7% for fiscal 2009 instead of 28.6%, which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our consolidated statement of operations, due to the exclusion of the effect of an adjustment to our non-current deferred tax liability associated with acquired intangible assets. The income tax effects presented for fiscal 2008 and 2007 were calculated based on our effective tax rates of 29.5% and 28.6%, respectively.    

 43   
 Software  

 Software includes new software licenses and software license updates and product support.  

 New Software Licenses: New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware as well as our application software products. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Sales and marketing expenses are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software products, and also include marketing program costs and amortization of intangible assets.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation   

  (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations    

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: New software license revenues growth was unfavorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, total new software license revenues increased slightly in fiscal 2009 as a result of a 7% increase in database and middleware revenues, partially offset by a 10% decrease in applications revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions increased new software license revenues by 6% and 7%, respectively, and were partially offset by a decrease of 4% in the Americas region.  

 Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points, database and middleware revenues grew 7% in fiscal 2009 due primarily to BEA products and, to a lesser extent, other recently acquired products. In  

 44   
 reported currency, BEA products contributed $459 million, and other recently acquired products contributed $21 million to the total database and middleware revenues growth in fiscal 2009. The revenue contributions from BEA products, which already have been integrated with Oracle’s Fusion Middleware and are sold together, are based on our internal allocations consistent with previous periods.  

 Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points, application new software license revenues decreased in fiscal 2009 due to weaker global economic conditions and were partially offset by incremental revenues from our recent acquisitions. In reported currency, Primavera products contributed $33 million and our other recently acquired products contributed an incremental $27 million to our applications revenues in fiscal 2009.  

 In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million declined by 7% in fiscal 2009, primarily due to unfavorable currency variations, and decreased to 50% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2009 from 51% in fiscal 2008.  

 Total sales and marketing expenses were favorably impacted by 5 percentage points of currency variations during fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to higher salaries from increased headcount and higher amortization of intangible assets. These constant currency increases were partially offset by a reduction in our commissions and bonus expenses.  

 In both reported and constant currency, total new software license margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased as our total new software license expenses growth, in particular higher amortization of intangible assets, exceeded our revenues growth.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: New software license revenues growth was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues grew in all major product lines and across all geographies, with database and middleware revenues contributing 55% to the increase in new software license revenues and applications revenues contributing 45%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 52%, EMEA contributed 39% and Asia Pacific contributed 9% to the increase in new software license revenues.  

 Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, database and middleware revenues grew 17% in fiscal 2008 as a result of increased demand for our database and middleware products as well as incremental revenues from acquired companies. Hyperion products contributed $103 million, BEA products contributed $93 million, Stellent products contributed $37 million, Tangosol products contributed $18 million and other recently acquired products contributed $2 million to the total database and middleware revenues growth in fiscal 2008.  

 On a constant currency basis, applications revenues increased 33% in fiscal 2008. Hyperion products contributed $199 million, Agile products contributed $58 million, Metasolv products contributed $14 million, and other recently acquired products contributed $42 million to the total applications revenues growth in fiscal 2008.  

 In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million grew by 42% in fiscal 2008 and increased from 46% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2007 to 51% in fiscal 2008.  

 Sales and marketing expenses were adversely impacted by 5 percentage points of unfavorable currency variations during fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to higher salaries, benefits and travel expenses resulting from increased headcount, higher commissions expenses associated with both increased revenues and headcount levels, and an increase in planned marketing program expenses. These increases were partially offset by a $42 million reduction in litigation related expenses resulting primarily from the settlement of certain legal matters during the third quarter of fiscal 2008.  

 Total new software license margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased due to our new software licenses revenues growth rate and a favorable foreign currency impact, partially offset by higher growth rates in our amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expenses.  

 Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business include  

 45   
 the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from our acquisitions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation   

  (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations    

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: The growth in our software license updates and product support revenues was unfavorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points in fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased in fiscal 2009 as a result of new software licenses sold with substantially all customers electing to purchase support contracts during fiscal 2009, the renewal of substantially all of the customer base eligible for renewal in the current fiscal year and incremental revenues from the expansion of our customer base from our acquisitions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 49%, EMEA contributed 38% and Asia Pacific contributed 13% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues.  

 In reported currency, software license updates and product support revenues in fiscal 2009 include incremental revenues of $540 million from BEA, $20 million from Primavera and $49 million from other recently acquired companies. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $243 million, $179 million and $212 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities, were not recognized in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year.  

 Total software license updates and product support expenses were favorably impacted by 3 percentage points of currency variations during fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support expenses increased due to higher salary expenses associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our customer base and higher amortization expenses resulting from additional intangible assets acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2008, both of which were primarily attributable to our acquisition of BEA in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.  

 46   
 Total software license updates and product support margin increased due to an increase in revenues, while margin as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly as the growth in our amortization of intangible assets exceeded our revenues growth.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: The growth in our software license updates and product support revenues was favorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased in fiscal 2008 in comparison to fiscal 2007 for similar reasons as those noted above. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 53%, EMEA contributed 36% and Asia Pacific contributed 11% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues. Software license updates and product support revenues in fiscal 2008 included incremental revenues of $303 million from Hyperion, $38 million from BEA, $38 million from Agile, $30 million from Stellent, $25 million from Metasolv, and $46 million from other recently acquired companies.  

 Software license updates and product support expenses were adversely impacted by 3 percentage points of unfavorable currency variations during fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support expenses increased due to higher salary and benefits associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our customer base, higher bonuses and commissions, and higher amortization expenses resulting from additional intangible assets acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2007. Total software license updates and product support margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased as our revenues grew faster than expenses, but was partially offset by a higher growth rate in our amortization of intangible assets.  

 Services  

 Services consist of consulting, On Demand and education.  

 Consulting: Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in the design, implementation, deployment and upgrade of our database and middleware software products as well as applications software products. The cost of providing consulting services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation   

  (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations    

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Consulting revenues were unfavorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, we believe the  

 47   
 decline in our consulting revenues was generally due to weaker demand resulting from a deterioration of global economic conditions in comparison to fiscal 2008. This decrease was partially offset by incremental contributions from our recent acquisitions.  

 In constant currency, consulting expenses decreased during fiscal 2009 as a result of lower salary expenses due to a decrease in headcount and lower commissions and bonus expenses. These decreases were partially offset by higher infrastructure and travel expenses (the majority of travel expenses are billable to customers).  

 Consulting margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased in fiscal 2009 as our expenses declined at a greater rate than our revenues.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Consulting revenues growth was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting revenues increased during fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in application product implementations associated with the sales of our application software products and incremental revenues from our recent acquisitions, primarily Hyperion and BEA. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 36%, EMEA contributed 35% and Asia Pacific contributed 29% to the increase in consulting revenues.  

 Consulting expenses were adversely impacted by 6 percentage points of unfavorable currency variations during fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting expenses increased during fiscal 2008 as a result of higher personnel related expenses attributable to higher headcount levels and third party contractor expenses that supported our increase in revenues.  

 Total consulting margin as a percentage of revenues remained constant during fiscal 2008 as margin improvements in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions were offset by expense growth in the Americas region and for our Oracle Financial Software Services Limited subsidiary (formerly, i-flex solutions limited) and an increase in our amortization of intangible asset expenses.  

 On Demand: On Demand includes our Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services offerings. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management, and maintenance services for our database and middleware as well as our applications software delivered either at our data center facilities, at select partner data centers, or at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services consists of solution lifecycle management services, database and application management services, industry-specific solution support centers and remote and on-site expert services. The cost of providing On Demand services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs.  

 48   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation   

  (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations    

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: On Demand revenue growth was unfavorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2009. On Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2009 due to an increase in each service category’s subscription base as a greater number of customers engaged us to provide IT services and outsourcing solutions. On a constant currency basis, Advanced Customer Services contributed the majority of our On Demand revenues growth. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 52%, EMEA contributed 23% and Asia Pacific contributed 25% to the increase in On Demand revenues.  

 Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points, On Demand expenses increased modestly in fiscal 2009 due to higher personnel related costs resulting from additional employees hired to support the increase in On Demand revenues. This expense increase was partially offset by a shift of certain U.S. based costs to global support centers in lower cost countries.  

 Total On Demand margin and margin as a percentage of revenues improved primarily as a result of our Oracle On Demand business, which increased revenues while managing operating expenses to a modest level of growth in comparison to fiscal 2008. Our Advanced Customer Services margin and margin percentages also improved in comparison to fiscal 2008.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: On Demand revenue growth was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, On Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2008 due to similar reasons as noted above. On a constant currency basis, Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services contributed approximately equal amounts to the growth in On Demand revenues. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 53%, EMEA contributed 29% and Asia Pacific contributed 18% to the increase in On Demand revenues.  

 Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points, On Demand expenses increased in fiscal 2008 due to higher salaries and benefits expenses associated with increased headcount, and higher technology infrastructure related expenses to support the expansion of our customer base. These expense increases were partially offset by a shift of certain U.S. based costs to global support centers in lower cost countries.  

 49   
 Total On Demand margin as a percentage of revenues improved primarily as a result of our Oracle On Demand business, which increased revenues while managing operating expenses to a level consistent with fiscal 2007. Our Advanced Customer Services margin and margin percentages also improved in comparison to fiscal 2007.  

 Education: Education revenues are earned by providing instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our database and middleware software products as well as applications software products. Education expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures, facilities and external contractor costs.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation    

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points, education revenues decreased in fiscal 2009 as we experienced weaker demand for our educational services that we believe was the result of weaker global economic conditions.  

 Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points, education expenses declined in comparison to fiscal 2008, due to headcount reductions associated with restructuring actions taken and a reduction in other variable costs associated with the decline in business activity.  

 Education margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in fiscal 2009 due to a reduction in our revenues, which declined at a higher rate than our expense reductions.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Education revenues growth was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, education revenues increased in fiscal 2008 due primarily to an increase in customer training on the use of our applications products, including our acquired products. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 39%, EMEA contributed 36% and Asia Pacific contributed 25% to the increase in education revenues.  

 Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points, education expenses increased due to higher personnel related expenses during the first half of fiscal 2008 and were partially offset by lower personnel related expenses in the second half of fiscal 2008 as a result of restructuring actions taken.  

 Education margin and margin as a percentage of revenues increased slightly in fiscal 2008 as revenue growth exceeded expense growth.  

 50   
 Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation    

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Total research and development expenses were favorably affected by 3 percentage points of currency variations during fiscal 2009. On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased as salary expenses from higher headcount and increased stock-based compensation expenses were partially offset by a decrease in bonus expenses. The increase in our headcount was the combined result of our recent acquisitions, primarily BEA, and our hiring of additional personnel to develop new functionality for our existing products. Research and development headcount as of the end of fiscal 2009 increased by approximately 1,500 employees, or 7%, in comparison to the end of fiscal 2008.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, research and development expenses increased in fiscal 2008 due to higher employee related expenses associated with higher headcount levels, including higher stock-based compensation expenses, and $46 million of expenses pertaining to certain legal-related matters. The increase in our headcount was the combined result of acquisitions, primarily BEA, and hiring of additional resources to develop new functionality for our existing products. Research and development headcount as of the end of fiscal 2008 increased by approximately 2,550 employees in comparison to the end of fiscal 2007.  

 General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation    

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Total general and administrative expenses were affected by 4 percentage points of favorable currency variations during fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased slightly during fiscal 2009 as a result of increased professional services fees and increased stock-based compensation expenses, which were almost entirely offset by decreases in bonuses expenses and certain of our benefits expenses, including a reduction in our deferred compensation expenses (see discussion under “Non-Operating Income, net” below).  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased during fiscal 2008 as a result of higher personnel related costs associated with increased headcount to support our expanding operations and increased stock-based compensation expenses.  

 51   
 Amortization of Intangible Assets:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Amortization of intangible assets increased in fiscal 2009 due to the amortization of acquired intangibles from BEA and other acquisitions that we consummated since the beginning of fiscal 2008. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our intangible assets (including weighted average useful lives) and related amortization.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Amortization of intangible assets increased in fiscal 2008 due to the amortization of acquired intangibles from Hyperion, BEA and other acquisitions that we consummated since the beginning of fiscal 2007.  

 Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of in-process research and development expenses, integration related professional services, stock-based compensation expenses, personnel related costs for transitional and other employees, certain business combination adjustments after the purchase price allocation period has ended, and certain other expenses (income), net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses relate to unvested options assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those options.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  *   Not meaningful    

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses decreased slightly due to lower stock-based compensation expenses in fiscal 2009 caused primarily by the timing of stock option accelerations for certain former Hyperion and BEA employees that were incurred in the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008 and lower in-process research and development expenses. These decreases were almost entirely offset by higher transitional and other employee related expenses resulting primarily from our acquisition of BEA, an increase in professional fees and an increase in certain acquisition related adjustments subsequent to the end of the purchase price allocation period. In addition, we also recognized a gain on property sale (described above) in fiscal 2008, which reduced expenses in that period.  

 In fiscal 2010, the items that we record to acquisition related and other expenses will change as a result of our adoption of Statement 141(R), which could materially impact our consolidated financial statements (see further discussion in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” above and in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).  

 52   
 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Acquisition related and other expenses decreased during fiscal 2008 due to lower in-process research and development acquired as a part of our fiscal 2008 acquisitions in comparison to our fiscal 2007 acquisitions and a gain on a property sale. These decreases to acquisition related and other expenses were partially offset by higher transitional employee related expenses and increased stock-based compensation expenses due to the acceleration of certain acquired employee stock options, primarily Hyperion and BEA, pursuant to the terms of those options. Total operating expenses in fiscal 2007 were also reduced by a $52 million benefit as a result of a settlement of an acquired legal contingency from PeopleSoft for less than the amount accrued as of the end of the purchase price allocation period (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion).  

 Restructuring expenses: Restructuring expenses consist primarily of Oracle employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities in order to improve our Oracle-based cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our Oracle-based restructuring plans, as well as restructuring activities of our acquired companies, please see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, our management approved, committed to and initiated a plan to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations (2009 Plan). The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2009 Plan are $241 million and will be recorded to restructuring expenses in our consolidated statements of operations as they are recognized. In fiscal 2009, we recorded $85 million of restructuring expenses in connection with the 2009 Plan. We expect to incur the majority of the remaining $156 million during fiscal 2010. Our estimated costs are preliminary and may be subject to change in future periods.  

 During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, our management approved, committed to and initiated a plan to restructure and improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations as a result of certain management and organizational changes and our recent acquisitions (the 2008 Plan). The 2008 Plan was amended in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 to include the Oracle-based effects resulting from our acquisition of BEA. The total costs associated with the 2008 Plan were approximately $80 million, of which expenses of $39 million and $41 million were incurred during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

 In connection with any acquisition that we close in fiscal 2010 and prospective periods, we will record involuntary termination and other exit costs associated with such acquisition to restructuring expenses in our consolidated statement of operations as a result of our adoption of Statement 141(R), which is a change from current practice pursuant to existing accounting standards and could materially impact our consolidated financial statements (see further discussion in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” above).  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: We incurred restructuring expenses of $41 million in fiscal 2008 pursuant to the 2008 Plan as described above. Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2007 relate to Oracle employee severance and facility closures that were recorded in those periods and were a part of a restructuring plan initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2006.  

 Interest Expense:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Interest expense increased in fiscal 2009 due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in April 2008.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Interest expense increased in fiscal 2008 due to higher average borrowings resulting from the issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in April 2008, a net increase of $500 million in additional  

 53   
 senior notes outstanding for the majority of fiscal 2008 and our issuances of short-term commercial paper in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 (we repaid these commercial paper amounts during fiscal 2008).  

 Non-Operating Income, net: Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains and losses, the minority owners’ share in the net profits of our majority-owned Oracle Financial Services Software Limited (formerly i-flex solutions limited) and Oracle Japan subsidiaries, and other income, net, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Non-operating income, net decreased during fiscal 2009 as a result of a reduction in our interest income, primarily due to lower market rates that affected the yields earned on our investment portfolio and net foreign currency transaction losses of $55 million in comparison to net foreign currency transaction gains of $40 million in the corresponding prior year. Non-operating income, net was also affected by changes in our investments that we classify as trading that support our deferred compensation plan obligations. The majority of these changes decreased “Other income, net” in the table above during the second quarter of fiscal 2009. We account for our deferred compensation plan assets and obligations pursuant to EITF 97-14, Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where Amounts Earned Are Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested, which requires that the changes in obligations associated with our deferred compensation plan be recorded in our operating expenses while the corresponding change in the plan assets be recorded in non-operating income, net. The changes in obligations and asset values of the plan are equal and offsetting, such that there is no impact to our income before provision for income taxes during fiscal 2009 or any other periods presented.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Non-operating income, net increased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in interest income from higher weighted average cash and marketable securities balances during fiscal 2008.  

 Provision for Income Taxes: The effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to state taxes and earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Provision for income taxes decreased during fiscal 2009 in comparison to fiscal 2008 due to a lower effective tax rate, which was primarily the result of a higher proportion of our worldwide taxable income being earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions.  

 In fiscal 2010, we will adopt Statement 141(R), which amends FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes and FIN 48. For fiscal 2009 and prior periods, we generally accounted for post-acquisition adjustments to business combination related deferred tax asset valuation allowances and liabilities related to uncertain tax  

 54   
 positions as an increase or decrease to goodwill, regardless of the time that had elapsed since the acquisition date. Statement 141(R) will no longer permit this accounting and generally will require any such changes to be recorded in current period income tax expense, unless any such change is identified during the measurement period and it relates to new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date. Such estimate revisions that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments will be recorded to our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of operations in the period the revision is made and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Provision for income taxes increased in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 due primarily to higher earnings before taxes.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Working Capital: The increase in working capital as of May 31, 2009 in comparison to May 31, 2008 was due to the favorable impact to our net current assets, primarily our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, resulting from our net income generated during fiscal 2009. This increase in working capital was partially offset by an increase in our stock repurchases during fiscal 2009 in comparison to the prior year (we used $4.0 billion of cash for stock repurchases during fiscal 2009 in comparison to $2.0 billion used for stock repurchases during fiscal 2008), cash used for our acquisitions, cash used to repay $1.0 billion of our Senior Notes that matured in May 2009 and the reclassification of $1.0 billion of our Senior Notes due May 2010 as a current liability, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders for the first time in our history, and the decline in value of our net current assets held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar during fiscal 2009 (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheet). Our working capital may be impacted by all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, certain amounts and timing of which are variable.  

 The increase in working capital as of May 31, 2008 in comparison to May 31, 2007 was primarily due to an increase in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances resulting from the issuance of $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes in April 2008, additional cash and trade receivables generated from our operations and our adoption of FIN 48, which resulted in $1.3 billion of uncertain tax positions being prospectively reclassified from current income taxes payable to non-current taxes payable. These increases in working capital were partially offset by cash used in fiscal 2008 to pay for our acquisitions (primarily BEA) and to repurchase our common stock.  

 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate notes, U.S. Treasury obligations and U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at May 31, 2009 in comparison to May 31, 2008 was due to an increase in cash generated from our operating activities. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities include $11.3 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of May 31, 2009. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheet). As the U.S. Dollar strengthened against most major international currencies during fiscal 2009, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries declined relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of May 31, 2008. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances were also partially offset by cash used for our acquisitions, the repayment of $1.0 billion of senior notes in May 2009, the repurchases of our common stock (see discussion above), and the payment of cash dividends to our stockholders.  

 55   
 The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at May 31, 2008 in comparison to May 31, 2007 is due to the issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in April 2008 and an increase in our operating cash flows resulting primarily from an increase in net income, partially offset by cash used for our acquisitions (primarily BEA), net repayments of our short-term commercial paper notes, and repurchases of our common stock.  

 Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 58 days at May 31, 2009 compared with 63 days at May 31, 2008. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the adjustment that reduces our acquired software license updates and product support obligations to fair value. Our decline in days sales outstanding is primarily due to the improved timeliness of our collections efforts and the mix of our total revenues during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, which weighted more heavily toward our license updates and product support revenues (such revenues generally have a lower DSO than our revenues from our other operating segments).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cash Flows from Operating Activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for software license updates and product support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts’ terms, which are generally one year in length. We also generate significant cash from new software license sales and, to a lesser extent, services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures as well as payments related to taxes and leased facilities.  

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Net cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to higher net income adjusting for amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and other net cash favorable balance sheet movements.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Net cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to higher net income, partially offset by increased accounts receivable primarily due to fourth quarter fiscal 2008 revenues growth (in particular, our new software license revenues growth).  

 Cash Flows from Investing Activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets to support our growth.  

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Net cash used for investing activities decreased in fiscal 2009 due to a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and a decrease in cash used to purchase marketable securities, net of proceeds received from sales and maturities.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Net cash used for investing activities increased in fiscal 2008 due to an increase in cash used for acquisitions (primarily BEA), net of cash acquired, and an increase in cash used to purchase marketable securities, net of proceeds received from sales and maturities.  

 Cash Flows from Financing Activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt facilities as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and proceeds from stock option exercise activity.  

 Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008: Net cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2009 increased in comparison to cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2008 due to increased stock repurchases and dividend payments (see discussion in “Working Capital” above and in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information) and decreased proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options during fiscal 2009. In addition, financing activities provided cash in fiscal 2008 as a result of our issuance of $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes in April 2008 and certain commercial paper issuances, net of commercial paper repayments.  

 56   
 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2008 increased in comparison to cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2007 due to the issuance of $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes, additional proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and decreased spending on stock repurchases, and were partially offset by $1.4 billion of net repayments of short-term commercial paper notes.  

 Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Represents capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.    

 Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products and service offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell contracts that we have financed on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. In fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, $1.4 billion, $1.1 billion and $891 million or approximately 19%, 15% and 15%, respectively, of our new software license revenues were financed through our financing division.  

 Recent Financing Activities: In recent years, we have issued long-term senior notes to fund our acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. During fiscal 2009, we repaid $1.0 billion of senior notes that matured in May 2009. As of May 31, 2009, we have $10.2 billion of senior notes outstanding, including $1.0 billion that matures in May 2010. We have also, on occasion, issued short-term commercial paper notes in recent years pursuant to our commercial paper program to assist with the short-term financing for certain of our acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes. Typically, we have repaid these liabilities within 12 months or less from their issuance date. We also have entered into certain revolving credit agreements to back-stop any commercial paper notes we may issue and for other general corporate purposes. As of May 31, 2009, we have no commercial paper notes or amounts under our credit agreements outstanding. If we issue commercial paper notes in the future, we would most likely use our revolving credit agreements as a back-stop to these notes and we therefore consider that we have a total of $4.9 billion of capacity available to us pursuant to our credit agreements and commercial paper program as of May 31, 2009. Additional details of our various debt facilities and obligations are included in the “Contractual Obligations” section below and in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and risks associated with our debt obligations and any future debt issuances are included in Risk Factors (Item 1A).  

 Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On October 20, 2008, our Board of Directors expanded our repurchase program by $8.0 billion and as of May 31, 2009, $6.3 billion was available for share repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. We repurchased 225.6 million shares for $4.0 billion, 97.3 million shares for $2.0 billion, and 233.5 million shares for $4.0 billion in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend repayments, our debt repayment obligations (as described below), our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.  

 57   
 In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we declared and paid our first quarterly cash dividend in our history of $0.05 per share of outstanding common stock. In June 2009, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share of outstanding common stock payable on August 13, 2009 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 15, 2009. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.  

 Contractual Obligations: The contractual obligations presented in the table below represent our estimates of future payments under fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates and other factors may result in actual payments differing from these estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in our information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of May 31, 2009:   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Our borrowings (excluding capital leases) consist of the following as of May 31, 2009:    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

     Our floating rate senior notes due May 2010 bore interest at a rate of 0.97% as of May 31, 2009. We have entered into an interest rate swap agreement that has the economic effect of modifying the variable interest obligations associated with our floating rate senior notes due May 2010 so that the interest payable on the senior notes effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.59%. Interest payments were calculated based on terms of the related agreement and include estimates based on the effective interest rates as of May 31, 2009 for variable rate borrowings after consideration of the aforementioned interest rate swap agreement.   

  (2)   Represents remaining payments under capital leases assumed from acquisitions.   

  (3)   Primarily represents leases of facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring and merger integration activities. We have approximately $259 million in facility obligations, net of estimated sublease income, in accrued restructuring for these locations in our consolidated balance sheet at May 31, 2009.   

  (4)   Represents amounts associated with agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payment. Amounts in this row do not include purchase orders for raw materials and other goods entered into in the ordinary course of business as they are generally entered into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms and are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way.   

  (5)   Represents the maximum additional capital we may need to contribute toward our venture fund investments, which are payable upon demand.    

 On April 19, 2009, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) with Sun Microsystems, Inc., a provider of enterprise computing systems, software and services. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, our wholly owned subsidiary will merge with and into Sun and Sun will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Oracle. Upon the consummation of the merger, each share of Sun common stock will be converted into the right to receive $9.50 in cash. In addition, options to acquire Sun common stock, Sun restricted stock unit awards and other equity-  

 58   
 based awards denominated in shares of Sun common stock outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of the merger will generally be converted into options, restricted stock unit awards or other equity-based awards, as the case may be, denominated in shares of our common stock based on formulas contained in the Merger Agreement. The estimated total purchase price of Sun is approximately $7.4 billion. This transaction is subject to Sun stockholder approval, regulatory clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the applicable merger control laws of the European Commission and other jurisdictions, and other customary closing conditions. We also have entered into certain other agreements to acquire other companies and expect these proposed acquisitions to close during the first quarter of fiscal 2010. We intend to finance our proposed acquisitions through a combination of our internally available cash, our cash generated from operations, our existing available debt capacity, additional borrowings, or from the issuance of additional securities.  

 As of May 31, 2009, we have $2.3 billion of unrecognized tax benefits recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. We have reached certain settlement agreements with relevant taxing authorities to pay approximately $79 million of these liabilities (these amounts have been excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty of when they might be settled). Although it remains unclear as to when payments pursuant to these agreements will be made, some or all may be made in fiscal 2010. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which the remainder of our unrecognized tax benefits will be settled or released with the relevant tax authorities, although we believe it is reasonably possible that certain of these liabilities could be settled or released during fiscal 2010 (see Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).  

 We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligations. In addition, we believe we could fund any future acquisitions, including the proposed Sun acquisition, and dividend payments and repurchase common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, our existing available debt capacity, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.   

 Selected Quarterly Financial Data  

 Quarterly revenues, expenses and operating income have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including sales force incentive compensation plans. In addition, our European operations generally provide lower revenues in our first fiscal quarter because of the reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. These seasonal factors are common in the software industry. These factors have caused a decrease in our first quarter revenues as compared to revenues in the immediately preceding fourth quarter, which historically has been our highest revenue quarter within a particular fiscal year. Similarly, the operating income of our business is affected by seasonal factors in a consistent manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software license business) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. We expect these trends to continue in fiscal 2010.  

 59   
 The following tables set forth selected unaudited quarterly information for our last eight fiscal quarters. We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring adjustments, have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the results of such periods when read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The sum of the quarterly financial information may vary from the annual data due to rounding.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Stock Options  

 Our stock option program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of options granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2006 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 1.3% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new options granted and assumed, net of options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all options are exercised. Some of these options, which generally have 10 year exercise periods, have exercise prices substantially higher than the current market price of our common stock. At May 31, 2009, 45% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices in excess of the current market price. Consistent with our historical practices, we do not expect that dilution from future grants before the effect of our stock repurchase program will exceed 2.0% per year for our ongoing business. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock option program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At May 31, 2009, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised option awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 7.2%.  

 60   
 The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and approves the organization-wide stock option grants to selected employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any individual stock option grants in excess of 100,000 shares. A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer committee, approves individual stock option grants up to 100,000 shares to non-executive officers and employees. Stock option activity from June 1, 2006 through May 31, 2009 is summarized as follows (shares in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our Compensation Committee approves the annual organization-wide option grants to certain key employees. These annual option grants are made during the ten business day period following the second trading day after the announcement of our fiscal fourth quarter earnings report.  

 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

 For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk