PART I   

  Item 1.    Business    

 General Development of Business  

 AMETEK, Inc. (“AMETEK” or the “Company”) is incorporated in Delaware. Its predecessor was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1930 under the name American Machine and Metals, Inc. The Company maintains its principal executive offices in suburban Philadelphia, PA at 37 North Valley Road, Building 4, Paoli, PA 19301. AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of electronic instruments and electromechanical devices with operations in North America, Europe, Asia, and South America. The Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: AME). AMETEK is a component of the Russell 1000 and the S&P MidCap 400 indices.  

 Website Access to Information  

 The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on the Company’s website at www.ametek.com (in the “Investors — Financial News and Information” section), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company has posted, free of charge, to the investor information portion of its website, its corporate governance guidelines, board committee charters and codes of ethics. Such documents are also available in published form, free of charge to any stockholder who requests them by writing to the Investor Relations Department at AMETEK, Inc., 37 North Valley Road, Building 4, Paoli, PA 19301.  

 Products and Services  

 The Company markets its products worldwide through two operating groups, the Electronic Instruments Group (“EIG”) and the Electromechanical Group (“EMG”). EIG builds monitoring, testing, calibration and display devices for the process, aerospace, industrial and power markets. EMG is a supplier of electromechanical devices. EMG produces highly engineered electromechanical connectors for hermetic (moisture-proof) applications, specialty metals for niche markets, and brushless air-moving motors, blowers, and heat exchangers. End markets include aerospace, defense, mass transit, medical and office products. The Company believes that EMG is the world’s largest manufacturer of air-moving electric motors for vacuum cleaners, and is a prominent producer of motors for other floor care products. The Company continues to grow through strategic acquisitions focused on differentiated niche markets in instrumentation and electromechanical devices.  

 Competitive Strengths  

 Management believes that the Company has several significant competitive advantages that assist it in sustaining and enhancing its market positions. Its principal strengths include:  

 Significant Market Share. AMETEK maintains a significant share in many of its targeted niche markets because of its ability to produce and deliver high-quality products at competitive prices. In EIG, the Company maintains significant market positions in many niche segments within the process, aerospace, industrial, and power instrumentation markets. In EMG, the Company maintains significant market positions in many niche segments including aerospace, defense, mass transit, medical, office products, and air-moving motors for the floor care market.  

 Technological and Development Capabilities. AMETEK believes it has certain technological advantages over its competitors that allow it to develop innovative products and maintain leading market positions. Historically, the Company has grown by extending its technical expertise into the manufacture of customized products for its customers, as well as through strategic acquisitions. EIG competes primarily on the basis of product innovation in several highly specialized instrumentation markets, including process measurement, aerospace, power, and heavy-vehicle dashboard instrumentation. EMG’s differentiated businesses focus on developing customized products for specialized applications in aerospace and defense, medical, business  

 2   

 machines and other industrial applications. In its cost-driven motor business, EMG focuses on low-cost design and manufacturing, while enhancing motor-blower performance through advances in power, efficiency, lighter weight and quieter operation.  

 Efficient and Low-Cost Manufacturing Operations. EMG has motor manufacturing plants in China, the Czech Republic, Mexico and Brazil to lower its costs and achieve strategic proximity to its customers, providing the opportunity to increase international sales and market share. Certain of the Company’s electronic instrument businesses are also relocating manufacturing operations to low-cost locales. Furthermore, strategic acquisitions and joint ventures in Europe, North America and Asia have resulted in additional cost savings and synergies through the consolidation of operations, product lines and distribution channels that benefit both operating groups.  

 Experienced Management Team. Another key component of AMETEK’s success is the strength of its management team and its commitment to the performance of the Company. AMETEK’s senior management has extensive experience, averaging approximately 23 years with the Company, and is financially committed to the Company’s success through Company-established stock ownership guidelines, and equity incentive programs.  

 Business Strategy  

 AMETEK’s objectives are to increase the Company’s earnings and financial returns through a combination of operational and financial strategies. Those operational strategies include business acquisitions, new product development, global and market expansion, and Operational Excellence programs designed to achieve double-digit annual percentage growth in earnings per share and a superior return on total capital. To support those operational objectives, financial initiatives have been, or may be, undertaken, including public and private debt or equity issuance, bank debt refinancing, local financing in certain foreign countries, accounts receivable securitization and share repurchases. AMETEK’s commitment to earnings growth is reflected in its continued implementation of cost-reduction programs designed to achieve the Company’s long-term best-cost objectives.  

 AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan consists of four key strategies:  

 Operational Excellence. Operational Excellence is AMETEK’s cornerstone strategy for improving profit margins and strengthening the Company’s competitive position across its businesses. Through its Operational Excellence strategy, the Company seeks to reduce production costs and improve its market positions. The strategy has played a key role in achieving synergies from newly acquired companies. AMETEK believes that Operational Excellence, which focuses on Six Sigma process improvements, global sourcing and lean manufacturing, and also emphasizes team building and a participative management culture, has enabled the Company to improve operating efficiencies and product quality, increase customer satisfaction and yield higher cash flow from operations, while lowering operating and administrative costs and shortening manufacturing cycle times.  

 New Product Development. New products are a key internal growth driver. AMETEK’s new product development pipeline is filled with promising and innovative instruments and differentiated electromechanical devices. Among the most recent product introductions are:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 3   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Global and Market Expansion. AMETEK’s largest international presence is in Europe, where it has operations in the United Kingdom, Germany, Denmark, Italy, the Czech Republic, France, Austria and the Netherlands. These operations provide design and engineering capability, product-line breadth, enhanced European distribution channels, and low-cost production. AMETEK has a leading market position in European floor care motors and a significant presence in many of its instrument businesses. It has grown sales in Latin America and Asia by building and expanding low-cost electric motor and instrument plants in Reynosa, Mexico, and motor manufacturing plants near Sao Paulo, Brazil and in Shanghai, China. It also continues to achieve geographic expansion and market expansion in Asia through joint ventures in China, Taiwan and Japan and a direct sales and marketing presence in Singapore, Japan, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea, the Middle East and Russia.  

 Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances. The Company continues to pursue strategic acquisitions, both domestically and internationally, to expand and strengthen its product lines, improve its market share positions and increase earnings through sales growth and operational efficiencies at the acquired businesses. Since the beginning of 2004, to the date of this report, the Company has completed 17 acquisitions with annualized sales totaling approximately $730 million, including seven acquisitions in 2007 representing approximately $230 million in annualized sales (see “Recent Acquisitions”). Those acquisitions have enhanced AMETEK’s position in analytical instrumentation, aerospace, and electrical interconnects and packaging. Through these and prior acquisitions, the Company’s management team has gained considerable experience in successfully acquiring and integrating new businesses. The Company intends to continue to pursue this acquisition strategy.  

 2007 Overview  

 Operating Performance  

 In 2007, AMETEK generated sales of $2.1 billion, an increase of 17% from 2006, and increased net income by 25%. The Company set records for sales, operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share. This strong performance was driven by strong internal growth in each of the Company’s two reportable segments, the contribution of recently acquired businesses and the Company’s continuing cost reduction initiatives. Additionally, AMETEK generated record cash flow from operating activities during 2007 that totaled $278.5 million, a 23% increase from 2006.  

 Financing  

 The accounts receivable securitization facility was amended and restated in May 2007 to increase the Company’s available borrowing capacity from $75 million to $110 million as well as extend the expiration date from May 2007 to May 2008. In June 2007, the Company amended its revolving credit facility, increasing the total  

 4   

 borrowing capacity from $400 million to $550 million, which includes an accordion feature that permits the Company to request up to an additional $100 million in revolving credit commitments at any time during the life of the revolving credit agreement under certain conditions. The amendment also extended the term of the facility from October 2011 to June 2012. In the third quarter of 2007, the Company completed a private placement agreement to sell $450 million in senior notes to a group of institutional investors. There are two funding dates for the senior notes. The first funding occurred in December 2007 for $370 million, consisting of $270 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.20% senior notes due December 2017 and $100 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.30% senior notes due December 2019. The second funding date will be in July 2008 for $80 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.35% senior notes due July 2018. The notes will carry a weighted average interest rate of approximately 6.25%.  

 Recent Acquisitions  

 The Company spent $300.6 million for seven new business acquisitions in 2007. The seven businesses acquired have annualized sales of approximately $230 million.  

 In April 2007, the Company acquired Seacon Phoenix, subsequently renamed Sea Connect Products (“SCP”). SCP provides undersea electrical interconnect subsystems to the global submarine market. SCP is a part of the Company’s Electromechanical Group.  

 In June 2007, the Company acquired Advanced Industries, Inc. (“Advanced”) and B&S Aircraft Parts Accessories (“B&S”). Advanced manufactures starter generators, brush and brushless motors, vane-axial centrifugal blowers for cabin ventilation, and linear actuators for the business jet, light jet, and helicopter markets. B&S provides third-party maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) services, primarily for starter generators and hydraulic and fuel system components, for a variety of business aircraft and helicopter applications. Both businesses are a part of the Company’s Electronic Instruments Group.  

 Also in June 2007, the Company acquired Hamilton Precision Metals (“Hamilton”). Hamilton produces highly differentiated niche specialty metals used in medical implant devices and surgical instruments, electronic components and measurement devices for aerospace and other industrial markets. Hamilton is a part of the Company’s Electromechanical Group.  

 In August 2007, the Company acquired Cameca SAS (“Cameca”). Cameca is a manufacturer of high-end elemental analysis systems used in advanced laboratory research, semiconductor and nanotechnology applications. Cameca is part of the Company’s Electronic Instruments Group.  

 In November 2007, the Company acquired the Repair & Overhaul Division of Umeco plc (“Umeco”). Umeco is a leading independent provider of MRO services to the aviation industry in Europe. Umeco is part of the Company’s Electromechanical Group.  

 In December 2007, the Company acquired California Instruments. California Instruments is a leader in programmable alternating current (AC) power sources used to test electrical and electronic products. California Instruments is part of the Electronic Instruments Group.  

 Financial Information About Reportable Segments, Foreign Operations, and Export Sales  

 Geographic information and reportable segments are shown on pages 67-69 of this report.  

 The Company’s Global and Market Expansion growth strategy is subject to certain risks that are inherent in conducting business outside the United States. Those include fluctuations in currency exchange rates and controls, restrictions on the movement of funds, import and export controls, and other economic, political, tax and regulatory policies of the countries in which business is conducted. (Also see Item 1A. Risk Factors).  

 The Company’s international sales increased 22% in 2007 to $1,053.7 million, representing 49% of total sales in 2007 compared with 48% in 2006. The increase was driven by both internal growth and acquisitions. The Company increased export sales of products manufactured in the United States as well as sales from overseas operations.  

 5   

 Description of Business  

 The products and markets of each reportable segment are described below:  

 EIG  

 EIG is comprised of a group of differentiated businesses. EIG applies its specialized market focus and technology to manufacture instruments used for testing, monitoring and calibration for the process, aerospace, industrial and power markets. EIG’s growth is based on the four strategies outlined in AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. EIG designs products that, in many instances, are significantly different from, or technologically better than, competing products. It has reduced costs by implementing operational improvements, achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply chain management, moving production to low-cost locales and reducing headcount. EIG is among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it serves, including aerospace engine sensors, heavy-vehicle instrument panels, analytical instrumentation, level measurement products, power instruments and pressure gauges. It has joint venture operations in Japan, China and Taiwan. Approximately 54% of EIG’s 2007 sales were to markets outside the United States.  

 EIG employs approximately 5,400 people, of whom approximately 700 are covered by collective bargaining agreements. EIG has 45 manufacturing facilities: 29 in the United States, seven in the United Kingdom, four in Germany, one in France, one in Austria, one in Denmark, one in South America and one in Canada. EIG also shares manufacturing facilities with EMG in Mexico.  

 Process and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products  

 Approximately 66% of EIG sales are from instruments for process and analytical measurement and analysis. These include: oxygen, moisture, combustion and liquid analyzers; emission monitors; spectrometers; mechanical and electronic pressure sensors and transmitters; radiation measurement devices; level measurement devices; precision pumping systems; and force-measurement and materials testing instrumentation. EIG’s focus is on the process industries, including oil, gas and petrochemical refining, power generation, specialty gas production, water and waste treatment, natural gas distribution, and semiconductor manufacturing. AMETEK’s analytical instruments are also used for precision measurement in a number of other applications including radiation detection for Homeland Security, materials analysis and nanotechnology research.  

 Cameca, acquired in August 2007, manufactures high-end elemental analysis systems used in advanced laboratory research, semiconductor and nanotechnology applications. Cameca’s instruments measure the elemental and isotopic composition of micro- or nanovolumes at the surface or below the surface of a solid object. This extremely sensitive technology can measure atoms down to the part per billion level. The customer base, which is very diverse, includes semiconductor labs, semiconductor manufacturers and academic, governmental and industrial labs engaged in advanced research in nanotechnology, metals and nuclear science.  

 Land Instruments, acquired in June 2006, offers a full range of on-line optical temperature measurement instrumentation for industrial applications, including spot thermometers, line scanners and thermal imagers. These instruments, which measure temperatures up to 3000 degrees Celsius, are widely used by the metal, glass and mineral processing industries. The addition of Land Instruments’ high-temperature monitoring and control systems expands AMETEK’s on-line process monitoring capabilities, adding to our existing strengths in gas analysis for environmental applications.  

 Precitech, acquired in November 2006, designs and manufactures ultraprecise single-point and multi-axis diamond turning machining systems for applications requiring nanometric levels of accuracy. Its acquisition broadens our product offering for rapidly growing nanotechnology applications. Its products complement those of Taylor Hobson, which is a leading manufacturer of ultraprecision measurement instrumentation.  

 Power and Industrial Instrumentation Markets and Products  

 Approximately 17% of EIG sales are to the power and industrial instrumentation markets.  

 6   

 EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of power measurement and recording instrumentation used by the electric power and manufacturing industries. Those products include power transducers and meters, event and transient recorders, annunciators and alarm monitoring systems used to measure, monitor and record variables in the transmission and distribution of electric power. EIG’s Solidstate Controls designs and manufactures uninterruptible power supply systems for the process and power generation industries. EIG also manufactures sensor systems for land-based gas turbines and for boilers and burners used by the utility, petrochemical, process, and marine industries worldwide.  

 EIG’s vehicular information systems business is a leading North American manufacturer of dashboard instruments for heavy trucks, and is also among the major suppliers of similar products for construction vehicles. It has strong product development capability in solid-state instruments that primarily monitor engine operating parameters. Through its NCC business, EIG has a leading position in the food service instrumentation market and is a primary source for stand-alone and integrated timing controls for the food service industry.  

 California Instruments, acquired in December 2007, is a leader in programmable alternating current (AC) power sources used to test electrical and electronic products.  

 Pulsar, acquired in February 2006, is a supplier of power line carrier systems for relay communications equipment and fully integrated multiplexer systems for general power and telecommunication applications. This equipment provides communications between power substations for the protective relays on electric power lines to facilitate their operation and provide critical feedback on the faults and functioning of the electric transmission grid.  

 Aerospace Instrumentation Markets and Products  

 Approximately 17% of EIG sales are from aerospace products. AMETEK’s aerospace products are designed to customer specifications and are manufactured to stringent operational and reliability requirements. Its aerospace business operates in specialized markets, where its products have a technological and/or cost advantage. Acquisitions have complemented and expanded EIG’s core sensor and transducer product line, used in a wide range of aerospace applications.  

 Aerospace products include: airborne data systems; turbine engine temperature measurement products; vibration-monitoring systems, indicators and displays; fuel and fluid measurement products; sensors; switches; cable harnesses; and transducers. EIG serves all segments of commercial aerospace, including helicopters, business jets, commuter aircraft, and commercial airliners, as well as the military market.  

 Among its more significant competitive advantages are EIG’s 50-plus years of experience as an aerospace supplier and its long-standing customer relationships with global commercial aircraft Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). Its customers are the leading producers of airframes and jet engines. It also serves the commercial aerospace aftermarket with spare part sales and repair and overhaul services.  

 Advanced Industries, Inc. (“Advanced”), acquired in June 2007, manufactures starter generators, brush and brushless motors, vane-axial and centrifugal blowers for cabin ventilation, and linear actuators for the business jet, light jet and helicopter markets. These differentiated products complement our AMPHION product line of power management products for the aerospace industry and will broaden our product offering in the power management subsystem market.  

 B&S Aircraft Parts & Accessories (“B&S”), also acquired in June 2007, provides third-party MRO services, primarily for starter generators and hydraulic and fuel system components, for a variety of business aircraft and helicopter applications.  

 Customers  

 EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EIG’s operations. Approximately 12% of EIG’s 2007 sales were made to its five largest customers, and no one customer accounted for 10% or more of 2007 consolidated sales.  

 7   

 EMG  

 EMG is among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it serves, including highly engineered motors, blowers, fans, heat exchangers, connectors, and other electromechanical products or systems for commercial and military aerospace applications, defense, medical equipment, business machines and computers and other power or industrial applications. In its cost-driven motor business, the Company believes that EMG is the world’s largest producer of high-speed, air-moving electric motors for OEMs of floor care products. EMG designs products that, in many instances, are significantly different from, or technologically better than, competing products. It has reduced costs by implementing operational improvements, achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply chain management, moving production to low-cost locales and reducing headcount. Approximately 43% of EMG’s 2007 sales were to customers outside the United States.  

 EMG employs approximately 5,600 people, of whom approximately 2,200 are covered by collective bargaining agreements (including some that are covered by local unions). It has 42 manufacturing facilities: 24 in the United States, eight in the United Kingdom, three in France, two in Italy, two in Mexico, one in China, one in the Czech Republic, and one in Brazil.  

 Differentiated Businesses  

 Differentiated businesses account for an increasing proportion of EMG’s overall sales base. Differentiated businesses represented 69% of EMG’s sales in 2007 and are comprised of the engineered materials, interconnects and packaging businesses and the technical motors and systems businesses.  

 Engineered Materials, Interconnects and Packaging Markets and Products  

 Approximately 29% of EMG sales are engineered materials, interconnects and packaging products. AMETEK is an innovator and market leader in specialized metal powder, strip, wire, and bonded products. It produces stainless steel and nickel clad alloys; stainless steel, cobalt, and nickel alloy powders; metal strip; specialty shaped and electronic wire; and advanced metal matrix composites used in electronic thermal management. Its products are used in automotive, appliance, medical and surgical, aerospace, telecommunications, marine and general industrial applications. Its niche market focus is based upon proprietary manufacturing technology and strong customer relationships.  

 Hamilton Precision Metals, Inc. (“Hamilton”), acquired in June 2007, produces precision metal strip and foil for niche markets such as metals used in medical implant devices and surgical instruments, electronic components and measurement devices for aerospace and other industrial markets.  

 SCP, acquired in April 2007, produces undersea electrical interconnect subsystems for the global submarine market. It adds to the Company’s position in highly engineered hermetically sealed electrical interconnects and microelectronic packaging used to protect sophisticated electronics in aerospace, defense, telecommunications and industrial applications.  

 Technical Motors and Systems Markets and Products  

 Technical motors and systems, representing 40% of EMG’s 2007 sales, consist of brushless motors, blowers and pumps as well as other electromechanical systems. These products are used in aerospace, business machines, computer equipment, defense, mass transit vehicles, medical equipment, power, and industrial applications.  

 EMG produces electronically commutated (brushless) motors, blowers and pumps that offer long life, reliability and near maintenance-free operation. These motor-blower systems and heat exchangers are used for thermal management and other applications on a wide variety of military and commercial aircraft and military ground vehicles, and are used increasingly in medical and other applications, in which their long life, spark-free and reliable operation is very important. These motors provide cooling and ventilation for business machines, computers, and mass transit vehicles. In the emerging fuel cell market, AMETEK is working closely with many of the leading developers of fuel cell technology to produce blowers and pumps specifically developed for these applications.  

 8   

 EMG’s Prestolite switch business produces solenoids and other electromechanical devices for the motive and stationary power markets. The Prestolite battery charger business manufactures high-quality industrial battery chargers for use in the materials handling market. Both the switch and battery charger businesses have strong market positions and enjoy a reputation for high quality and service.  

 PennEngineering Motion Technologies, acquired in May 2006, is a leading designer and manufacturer of highly engineered motors for niche applications in the data storage, medical, electronic equipment, factory automation and aviation markets.  

 Southern Aeroparts Inc., acquired in December 2006, enabled the Company to establish a meaningful presence in the third-party MRO business providing repair and overhaul services on hydraulic, pneumatic and electromechanical components. These include power control units, hydraulic actuators, hydraulic flight controls, cargo handling systems, fans and blowers, airframe and power actuation systems.  

 Umeco R&O, acquired in November 2007, provides an extensive array of MRO services for electrical and electronic equipment, fluid power devices, hydraulic components, actuation systems, landing gear, wheels and brakes, and safety equipment. Umeco R&O operates from multiple locations in the United Kingdom and Toulouse, France.  

 Floor Care and Specialty Motor Markets and Products  

 Approximately 31% of EMG sales are to floor care and specialty motor markets, where it has the leading share, through its sales of air-moving electric motors to most of the world’s major floor care OEMs, including vertically integrated OEMs that produce some of their own motors. EMG produces motor-blowers for a full range of floor care products, ranging from hand-held, canister, and upright vacuums to central vacuums for residential use. High-performance vacuum motors also are marketed for commercial and industrial applications.  

 The Company also manufactures a variety of specialty motors used in a wide range of products, such as household and personal care appliances; fitness equipment; electric materials handling vehicles; and sewing machines. Additionally, its products are used in outdoor power equipment, such as electric chain saws, leaf blowers, string trimmers and power washers.  

 EMG has been successful in directing a portion of its global floor care marketing at vertically integrated vacuum cleaner manufacturers, who seek to outsource all or part of their motor production. By purchasing their motors from EMG, these customers are able to realize economic and operational advantages by reducing or discontinuing their own motor production and avoiding the capital investment required to keep their motor manufacturing current with changing technologies and market demands.  

 EMG focuses its new product development on reducing costs and achieving performance enhancements from its motors and motor-blowers. The latest generations of ADVANTEK II and INFIN-A-TEK vacuum motors incorporate environmentally friendly features, including innovations in fan design, materials and assembly techniques that allow for higher performance, greater efficiency, reduced noise, long life and better indoor air quality.  

 Customers  

 EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EMG’s operations. Approximately 14% of EMG’s sales for 2007 were made to its five largest customers, and no one customer accounted for 10% or more of 2007 consolidated sales.  

 Marketing  

 The Company’s marketing efforts generally are organized and carried out at the division level. EIG makes significant use of distributors and sales representatives in marketing its products, as well as direct sales in some of its more technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, its specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers. Given the technical nature of many of its products as well as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts most of its domestic and international marketing  

 9   

 activities through a direct sales force and makes some use of sales representatives and distributors both in the United States and in other countries.  

 Competition  

 In general, most of the Company’s markets are highly competitive. The principal elements of competition for the Company’s products are price, product technology, distribution, quality, and service.  

 In the markets served by EIG, the Company believes that it ranks among the leading U.S. producers of certain measuring and control instruments. It also is a leader in the U.S. heavy-vehicle instrumentation and power instrument markets and one of the leading instrument and sensor suppliers to the commercial aviation market. Competition remains strong and can intensify for certain EIG products, especially its pressure gauge and heavy-vehicle instrumentation products. Both of these businesses have several strong competitors. In the process and analytical instruments market, numerous companies in each specialized market compete on the basis of product quality, performance and innovation. The aerospace and power instrument businesses have a number of diversified competitors, which vary depending on the specific market niche.  

 EMG’s differentiated businesses have competition from a limited number of companies in each of their markets. Competition is generally based on product innovation, performance and price. There also is competition from alternative materials and processes. In its cost-driven businesses, EMG has limited domestic competition in the U.S. floor care market from independent manufacturers. Competition is increasing from Asian motor manufacturers that serve both the U.S. and the European floor care markets. Increasingly, global vacuum motor production is being shifted to Asia where AMETEK has a smaller but growing market position. There is potential competition from vertically integrated manufacturers of floor care products that produce their own motor-blowers. Many of these manufacturers would also be potential EMG customers if they decided to outsource their motor production.  

 Backlog and Seasonal Variations of Business  

 The Company’s approximate backlog of unfilled orders by business segment at the dates specified below was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The higher backlog at December 31, 2007 was primarily due to the seven businesses acquired in 2007, as well as increased order rates, primarily in the Company’s differentiated businesses.  

 Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at December 31, 2007, approximately 85% is expected to be shipped by December 31, 2008. The Company believes that neither its business as a whole, nor either of its reportable segments, is subject to significant seasonal variations, although certain individual operations experience some seasonal variability.  

 Availability of Raw Materials  

 The Company’s reportable segments obtain raw materials and supplies from a variety of sources, and generally from more than one supplier. However, for EMG, certain items, including various base metals and certain steel components, are available only from a limited number of suppliers. The Company believes its sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for its needs.  

 10   

 Research, Product Development and Engineering  

 The Company is committed to research, product development, and engineering activities that are designed to identify and develop potential new and improved products or enhance existing products. Research, product development, and engineering costs before customer reimbursement were $102.9 million, $87.6 million and $75.9 million, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Customer reimbursements in 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $7.1 million, $6.4 million and $8.9 million, respectively. These amounts included net Company-funded research and development expenses of $52.9 million, $42.0 million and $34.8 million, respectively. All such expenditures were directed toward the development of new products and processes, and the improvement of existing products and processes.  

 Environmental Matters  

 Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth on pages 32-33 of this report in the section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations entitled “Environmental Matters”.  

 Patents, Licenses and Trademarks  

 The Company owns numerous unexpired U.S. patents and foreign patents, including counterparts of its more important U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the world. The Company is a licensor or licensee under patent agreements of various types, and its products are marketed under various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names. However, the Company does not consider any single patent or trademark, or any group thereof, essential either to its business as a whole or to either of its business segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license agreements are not significant to either of its reportable segments or to the Company’s overall operations.  

 Employees  

 At December 31, 2007, the Company employed approximately 11,300 people in its EMG, EIG and corporate operations, of whom approximately 2,900 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Company has four collective bargaining agreements that will expire in 2008, which cover less than 250 employees. The Company expects no material adverse effects from the pending labor contract negotiations.  

 Working Capital Practices  

 The Company does not have extraordinary working capital requirements in either of its reportable segments. Customers generally are billed at normal trade terms, which may include extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely controlled and maintained at levels related to production cycles, and are responsive to the normal delivery requirements of customers.  

  Item 1A.    Risk Factors