ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

The following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially.  

Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness  

We are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing.  

We have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. As of December 31, 2010, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $3.3 billion. In addition, our Wynn Las Vegas credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness in the future and the Wynn Macau credit facilities permit us to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example:  

   •    if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. These rights and remedies include rights to:  

   •    repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral;  

   •    initiate judicial foreclosure against us; and  

   •    petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets.  

   •    we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas to service and amortize our Wynn Las Vegas indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, and may give us greater exposure to the current adverse economic and industry conditions;  

   •    we may experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and high unemployment due to the adverse economic and industry conditions, and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs and/or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject to under our existing indebtedness. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs;  

   •    we are dependent on certain amounts of cash flow from Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau to service Wynn Macau’s indebtedness, which reduces the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes at Wynn Macau;  

   •    we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition;  

   •    we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, to satisfy working capital requirements or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations;  

   •    while we do hedge a certain amount of our debt under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase; and  

   •    if we fail to pay our debts generally as they become due, unsecured creditors that we fail to pay may initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, subject to the requirements of the United States Bankruptcy Code, and such bankruptcy proceedings will delay or impact the repayment of our secured debt.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, we may, subject to certain limitations, be permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured senior and subordinated indebtedness. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated.  

The agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain financial covenants and other covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions.  

Our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios (currently required for both Wynn Macau and Wynn Las Vegas credit facilities) and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (currently required for our Wynn Macau credit facility). If our operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants causing a default in our agreements. Future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities.  

Our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. Our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets.  

The agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The debt facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to:  

   •    pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity;  

   •    incur additional debt;  

   •    make investments;  

   •    create liens on assets to secure debt;  

   •    enter into transactions with affiliates;  

   •    issue stock of, or member’s interests in, subsidiaries;  

   •    enter into sale-leaseback transactions;  

   •    engage in other businesses;  

   •    merge or consolidate with another company;  

   •    transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets;  

   •    issue disqualified stock;  

   •    create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and  

   •    designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries.  

If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities.  

19  

Table of Contents 

If Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness or otherwise become unable to make certain payments or dividends to us which we in turn could use to service our indebtedness, our ability to service the indebtedness of Wynn Macau or Wynn Las Vegas, LLC could be negatively impacted.  

Our subsidiaries’ indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets.  

Subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our subsidiaries’ debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries. In the event of a default by any of our subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if certain of our subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our subsidiaries’ secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our subsidiaries’ unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets.  

Risks Related to our Business  

The loss of Stephen A. Wynn could significantly harm our business.  

Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts, skills and reputation of Stephen A. Wynn, the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and one of the principal stockholders of Wynn Resorts. Mr. Wynn’s employment agreement expires in October 2020. However, we cannot assure you that Mr. Wynn will remain with Wynn Resorts, Limited. If we lose the services of Mr. Wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired.  

Continued weakness in the United States economic conditions may adversely affect consumer and corporate spending and tourism trends, resulting in additional deterioration in our business.  

Discretionary consumer spending has been adversely affected by continued economic weakness in the U.S. Consumers are traveling less and spending less when they do travel. Likewise, corporate spending on conventions and business development is being significantly curtailed as businesses cut their budgets. Since our business model relies on significant expenditure on luxury and discretionary items, continuation or deepening of the crisis will further adversely affect our operations.  

There may be excess room supply particularly in the luxury segment in Las Vegas.  

There have been large additions to the room supply in Las Vegas since December 2009. Even after the economy begins to recover, there may be excess supply, particularly in the luxury segment.  

We are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties.  

We are entirely dependent upon our resorts in Las Vegas and Macau for all of our cash flow. As a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. The risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following:  

   •    local economic and competitive conditions;  

   •    changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations;  

   •    natural and other disasters;  

   •    a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas or Macau;  

20  

Table of Contents 

   •    a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at our resorts ; and  

   •    the outbreak of an infectious disease such as H1N1 or the avian flu.  

Any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt.  

Our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition.  

Competition for Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas. The casino/hotel industry is highly competitive and additional developments have recently opened in Las Vegas. Resorts located on or near the Las Vegas Strip compete with other Las Vegas Strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in Las Vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors.  

Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas also compete with other hotel/casino facilities in other cities, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on Native American lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries and other forms of gaming. The proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. In particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. In addition, new or renovated casinos in Macau or elsewhere in Asia could draw Asian gaming customers away from Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas.  

Competition for Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau. Currently there are 33 operating casinos in Macau. We hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three sub-concessions authorized by the Macau government to operate casinos in Macau. The Macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since April 2009. If the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Our Macau resort complex also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of Asia, such as Genting Highlands Resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and casinos in Singapore and the Philippines. We also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including Australia and Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia. Further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other Asian countries are successful, our Wynn Macau resort will face additional regional competition.  

Our business relies on high-end, international customers. We often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease.  

General. A significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. The loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a substantial negative effect on our future operating results. A downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a further reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers.  

We conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. This credit is unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. The collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. We will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension.  

21  

Table of Contents 

In addition, high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter.  

Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas. While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the United States under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the United States Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the United States of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. Recent dramatic changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results.  

Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau. Although the law in Macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, Wynn Macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. We expect that Wynn Macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results.  

Currently, the gaming tax in Macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in Macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. As a result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers.  

Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy.  

Consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, high unemployment, the housing foreclosure crisis, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, the economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results.  

We are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business.  

General. The operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. The laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. The scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. We received all approvals for the opening of Wynn Las Vegas on April 28, 2005, and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas on December 22, 2008. We are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain their operations. We opened Wynn Macau on September 6, 2006 and Encore at Wynn Macau on April 21, 2010, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain their operations.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas. The Nevada Gaming Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt or securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own Wynn Resorts’ securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada.  

Nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. Substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. The suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations.  

Wynn Resorts’ articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, Wynn Resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as Wynn Resorts elects.  

Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau. Wynn Macau’s operations are subject to unique risks, including risks related to Macau’s regulatory framework. In Macau, we have developed certain operating procedures which are different from those used in United States casinos. Failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in Macau could result in the revocation of Wynn Macau, S.A.’s concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in Macau. Moreover, we would be subject to the risk that U.S. regulators could determine that Macau’s gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in Macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the Nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the United States.  

We are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. The rate of taxation could change.  

We are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the United States (at the federal, state and local levels) and in Macau. Various legislative actions or the failure to renew our agreement with the Macau government with respect to dividends could change the rates of taxation or the company’s ability to claim foreign tax credits.  

If enacted into law, certain provisions of the Administration’s 2012 Budget Proposal could impact the Company’s ability to claim U.S. foreign tax credits for Macau gaming taxes paid after 2011. Increases in taxation could adversely affect our results.  

Terrorism and the uncertainty of military conflicts, natural disasters and contagious diseases, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results.  

The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities our resorts offer. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, other terrorist activities in the United States and elsewhere, military conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan and in the Middle East, outbreaks of infectious disease and pandemics, and natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis and earthquakes, among other things, have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures. We cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us in the future. An extended period of reduced  

23  

Table of Contents 

 discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. In particular, because our business relies heavily upon high-end customers, particularly international customers, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel internationally could have a negative impact on our operations.  

In addition, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, high unemployment, and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. Negative changes in any factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations.  

Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase.  

The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences. We currently have insurance coverage for terrorist acts included in our commercial property insurance policy with respect to Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas, not to exceed $1.5 billion. Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau have separate terrorist insurance coverage for up to $800 million per occurrence for losses that could result from these acts. However, these types of acts could expose us to losses that exceed our coverage and could have a significant negative impact on our operations.  

We may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. We may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. While we currently carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. In the event that insurance premiums increase, we may not be able to maintain the insurance coverage we currently have or otherwise be able to maintain adequate insurance protection.  

If a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the Wynn-related service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed.  

We have filed applications with the PTO and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in Macau, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, certain European countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include “WYNN RESORTS,” “WYNN DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT,” “WYNN LAS VEGAS,” “ENCORE” and “WYNN MACAU.” Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future.  

A common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname “WYNN.” As a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired “secondary meaning.” To date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the PTO such secondary meaning for the Wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including Mr. Wynn’s prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications.  

Even if we are able to obtain registration of the WYNN-related marks, such federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. Third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations.  

24  

Table of Contents 

Our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of “Wynn,” are among our most valuable assets. Efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets.  

If a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. However, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. It is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. The defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business.  

Our largest stockholders are able to exert significant control over our operations and future direction.  

Mr. Wynn, Elaine P. Wynn, and Aruze USA, Inc., together own approximately 35.6%, of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Wynn, Elaine P. Wynn, and Aruze USA, Inc., to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant control over all matters requiring our stockholders’ approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions.  

In November 2006, Mr. Wynn, and Aruze USA, Inc., entered into a stockholders’ agreement. On January 6, 2010, the agreement was amended and restated to, among other things, recognize Mr. Wynn’s transfer of 11,076,709 shares to Elaine P. Wynn. Pursuant to the amended and restated stockholders agreement, Elaine P. Wynn became party to the agreement in connection with her ownership of 11,076,709 shares of the Company’s common stock. Under the amended and restated stockholders’ agreement, Mr. Wynn, Elaine P. Wynn, and Aruze USA, Inc., have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for a slate of directors supported by Mr. Wynn. As a result of this voting arrangement, Mr. Wynn, as a practical matter, controls the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. In addition, with stated exceptions, the agreement requires the written consent of the other parties prior to any party selling any shares of Wynn Resorts that it owns.  

In November 2006, the Board of Wynn Resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of Wynn Resorts’ common stock by either Mr. Wynn or Aruze USA, Inc. from Nevada’s acquisition of controlling interest statutes. The Nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain Nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. These statutes define a “controlling interest” as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. As a result of the bylaw amendment, either Mr. Wynn or Aruze USA, Inc. or their respective affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of Wynn Resorts permitting them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the corporation in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the stockholders of the corporation granting voting rights in the control shares acquired.  

Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities.  

We have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties  

25  

Table of Contents 

 affected by hazardous substances. Under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. As an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination.  

These laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. The liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property.  

Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or applicable Anti-Money Laundering Regulation could have a negative impact on us.  

A significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the United States, which exposes the Company to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in doing business cross-border and in each of the countries in which it transacts business. We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit U.S. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the FCPA. Internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. If our employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or Company policies governing our international operations, the Company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our resorts could have a negative effect on our results of operations.  

Risks Associated with Wynn Macau  

Revenues from our Macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the Macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017.  

Our concession agreement expires in June 2022. Unless our concession is extended, in June 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment located in defined areas of our casino in Macau will be automatically transferred to the Macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. Beginning in June 2017, the Macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year’s prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. We also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Visitation to Macau may decline due to economic disruptions in mainland China as well as increased restrictions on visitations to Macau from citizens of mainland China.  

A significant number of our gaming customers at Wynn Macau come from mainland China. Any economic disruption in China could disrupt the number of patrons visiting our property or the amount they may be willing to spend. In addition, any travel restrictions imposed by China could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to our property. It is not known when, or if, policies similar to those implemented in 2009 restricting visitation by mainland Chinese citizens to Macau and Hong Kong, will be put in place and visa policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future.  

We compete for limited labor resources in Macau and Macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor.  

The success of our operations in Macau will be affected by our success in retaining our employees. We compete with a large number of casino resorts in Macau for a limited number of qualified employees. We have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort and policies announced by the Macau government have affected our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. We coordinate with the Macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure our labor demand is satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees.  

We depend upon games promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. If we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. Increased competition may result in increased pressure on commission rates.  

A significant portion of our gaming revenue is generated by clientele of our games promoters. With the rise in gaming in Macau, the competition for services provided by games promoters has increased. We anticipate that this competition will further intensify as additional casinos are expected to open in Macau in the near future. While we believe that we currently maintain good relations with our existing games promoters, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain these relationships. If we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, or lose a significant number of our games promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with VIP customers. In addition, if our games promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our VIP customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered.  

Certain games promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. This leverage could result in games promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with games promoters. While we have not had to adjust our compensation arrangements with games promoters thus far, we are aware of increased commission rates paid by other casino operators to games promoters in the Macau market. If we need to increase our commission rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected.  

In August 2009, the Macau government published, in its official gazette, certain guidelines with respect to caps on the commission rates payable to gaming promoters that became effective December 1, 2009. Further changes or tightening of caps may occur and if the Macau government were to implement caps on commission rates payable to gaming promoters that causes us to pay them effectively less than the level we currently pay, gaming promoters may have less incentive to bring travelers to casinos in Macau, including our resort, or may cease operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  

27  

Table of Contents 

The reputations of the games promoters we deal with are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession and Macau gaming laws. While we endeavor, through contractual protections and otherwise, to ensure that our games promoters comply with the high standards of probity and integrity under Macau gaming laws, we cannot assure you that our games promoters will always comply with these high standards. In addition, if we enter into a business relationship with a games promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. If any of our games promoters violate the Macau gaming laws while on our premises, the Macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the games promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. If our games promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations.  

The financial resources of our games promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business at our resort.  

Our games promoters may encounter decreased liquidity, for a variety of reasons, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons and thereby decreasing gaming volume at Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau. Furthermore, credit already extended by our games promoters to their patrons may become increasingly difficult for them to collect. This inability to grant credit and collect amounts due can negatively affect our games promoters’ operations, and as a result, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.  

Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions.  

The success of Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau will depend on political and economic conditions in Macau and mainland China. In December 1999, after approximately 450 years of Portuguese control, Portugal returned Macau to Chinese administration. The People’s Republic of China established Macau as a special administrative region. As a result of this change in control, Macau’s legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. We cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments would affect the business of Wynn Macau.  

Our operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. For example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in Macau, China or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds.  

In December 2009, Fernando Chui Sai On was inaugurated as the second Chief Executive of Macau. Dr. Chui’s government is formulating new policies to further the development of Macau. Certain of these policies could affect the gaming industry.  

Macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development.  

Because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between Macau and Hong Kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of Macau. If transportation facilities to and from Macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting Macau, the desirability of Macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau, could be negatively impacted.  

Extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau.  

Macau’s subtropical climate and location on the South China Sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. Unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resort complex and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to Macau.  

28  

Table of Contents 

The Macau government can terminate our concession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.  

The Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable Macau laws. The concession agreement expressly provides that the government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if Wynn Macau, S.A.:  

   •    conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose;  

   •    suspends gaming operations in Macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification;  

   •    defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts;  

   •    does not comply with government inspections or supervision;  

   •    systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system;  

   •    fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government;  

   •    is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent;  

   •    engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or,  

   •    repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws.  

If the government of Macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, Wynn Macau, S.A. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under Macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. The loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in Macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.  

Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of Wynn Macau, Limited.  

In October 2009, Wynn Macau, Limited, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Wynn Resorts and the developer, owner and operator of Wynn Macau, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. Wynn Macau, Limited sold through an initial public offering, 1,437,500,000 shares (27.7%) of this subsidiary’s common stock. As a result of Wynn Macau, Limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of Wynn Macau, Limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of Wynn Macau, Limited. Decisions that could have different implications for Wynn Resorts and Wynn Macau, Limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with Wynn Macau, Limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest.  

Certain Nevada gaming laws apply to Wynn Macau’s gaming activities and associations.  

Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada. With respect to our Wynn Macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in Nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in Macau conducted by our Macau-related subsidiaries. We and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Gaming Commission if our Macau-related subsidiaries:  

   •    knowingly violate any Macau laws relating to their Macau gaming operations;  

29  

Table of Contents 

   •    fail to conduct Wynn Macau’s operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations;  

   •    engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to Nevada gaming policies;  

   •    engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the State of Nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or,  

   •    employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling.  

Such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries, including Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, and the imposition of substantial fines.  

In addition, if the Nevada State Gaming Control Board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our Macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board can require us and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. If the Nevada Gaming Commission finds that the activity or association in Macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our Macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. Consequently, should the Nevada Gaming Commission find that our Macau-related subsidiary’s gaming activities or associations in Macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in Macau, or be required to divest their investment in Macau, possibly on unfavorable terms.  

Unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase Wynn Macau’s obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in Macau.  

The currency delineated in Wynn Macau’s concession agreement with the government of Macau is the Macau pataca. The Macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the Hong Kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in Macau. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca, and the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in Chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments.  

We cannot assure you that the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca will continue to be linked to the U.S. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. We also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level.  

Because many of Wynn Macau’s payment and expenditure obligations are in Macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable Macau pataca or Hong Kong dollar rate changes, Wynn Macau’s obligations, as denominated in U.S. dollars, would increase. In addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in Macau will be in Hong Kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar. Also, if any of our Macau-related entities incur U.S. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Macau pataca or the Hong Kong dollar, in relation to the U.S. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact Wynn Macau.  

Currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of Wynn Macau. For example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of China. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macau and negatively impact Wynn Macau’s gaming operations.  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES