ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.  

Interest Rate Risks  

One of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Financing Activities.” We attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. We cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations.  

61  

Table of Contents 

The following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at December 31, 2010 of our expected long-term indebtedness. However, we cannot predict the LIBOR or HIBOR rates that will be in effect in the future. As of December 31, 2010, such rates remain at historic lows. Actual rates will vary. The one-month LIBOR and HIBOR rates at December 31, 2010 of 0.26% and 0.23%, respectively were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents as applicable.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest Rate Swap Information  

We have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. We measure the fair value of our interest rate swaps on a recurring basis.  

Wynn Las Vegas  

We entered into an interest rate swap agreement to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the Wynn Las Vegas Credit Agreement. Under this swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 2.485% on borrowings of $250 million incurred under the Wynn Las Vegas Credit Agreement in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable LIBOR at the time of payment. This interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on $250 million of borrowings under the Wynn Las Vegas Credit Agreement at approximately 5.485%. This interest rate swap agreement matures in November 2012. Changes in the fair value of this interest rate swap have and will continue to be recorded as an increase/ (decrease) in swap fair value in our Consolidated Statements of Income as the swap does not qualify for hedge accounting.  

Wynn Macau  

As of December 31, 2010, we had three interest rate swaps intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities. Under the first swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 3.632% on U.S. dollar borrowings of $153.8 million incurred under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable LIBOR at the time of payment. As of December 31, 2010, this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on $153.8 million of the current U.S. dollar borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities at approximately 4.88%-5.38%. Under the second swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 3.39% on Hong Kong dollar borrowings of approximately HK $991.6 million (approximately US$127.9 million) incurred under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable HIBOR at the time of payment. As of December 31, 2010, this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on approximately $127.9 million of the current Hong Kong dollar borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities at approximately 4.64%. Both of these interest rate swap agreements mature in August 2011. We entered into a third interest rate swap agreement at Wynn Macau to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities. Under this swap agreement we pay a fixed interest rate of 2.15% on borrowings of approximately HK$2.3 billion (approximately US$300 million) incurred under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable HIBOR at the time of payment. This interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on HK$2.3 billion  

62  

Table of Contents 

 (approximately US$300 million) of borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities at approximately 3.4%. This interest rate swap agreement matures in June 2012.  

Changes in the fair values of these interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase/(decrease) in swap fair value in our Consolidated Statements of Income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting.  

Summary of Historical Fair Values  

The following table presents the historical liability fair values as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, of our interest rate swap arrangements (amounts in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The fair value approximates the amount we would pay if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. Fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. We adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date, as applicable.  

Other Interest Rate Swap Information  

The following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of December 31, 2010 and using estimated future LIBOR and HIBOR rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve. The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  

Interest Rate Sensitivity  

As of December 31, 2010, approximately 92% of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. Based on our borrowings as of December 31, 2010, an assumed 1% change in variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $2.8 million.  

Foreign Currency Risks  

The currency delineated in Wynn Macau’s concession agreement with the government of Macau is the Macau pataca. The Macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the Hong Kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in Macau. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar  

63  

Table of Contents 

 and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca, and the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in Chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments.  

If the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca are not linked to the U.S. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. We also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level.  

Because many of Wynn Macau’s payment and expenditure obligations are in Macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable Macau pataca or Hong Kong dollar rate changes, Wynn Macau’s obligations, as denominated in U.S. dollars, would increase. In addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that Wynn Macau operates in Macau will be in Hong Kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar. Also, if any of our Macau-related entities incur U.S. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Macau pataca or the Hong Kong dollar, in relation to the U.S. dollar, could have adverse effects on Wynn Macau’s results of operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. To date, we have not engaged in hedging activities intended to protect against foreign currency risk.  

64  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA