Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

INTRODUCTION  

GENERAL  

The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions Financial Corporation’s (“Regions” or the “Company”) financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 2007, 2006 and 2005; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted.  

Regions’ profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non-interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest-bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions’ net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non-interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, securities brokerage, investment banking and trust activities, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, insurance activities and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non-interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy and other operating expenses, including income taxes.  

Economic conditions, competition, and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect most financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions’ market areas.  

Regions’ business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Regions delivers this business with the personal attention and feel of a community bank and with the service and product offerings of a large regional bank.  

Acquisitions  

The acquisitions of banks and other financial services companies have historically contributed significantly to Regions’ growth. The acquisitions of other financial services companies have also allowed Regions to better diversify its revenue stream and to offer additional products and services to its customers. Regions, from time to time, evaluates potential bank and non-bank acquisition candidates.  

During 2007, Regions acquired two financial services entities. On January 2, 2007, Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired certain assets of Miles & Finch, Inc., a multi-line insurance agency headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana, with annual revenues of approximately $10 million, for a purchase price of $21 million. On June 15, 2007, Morgan Keegan & Co., Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC (“Shattuck Hammond”), an investment banking and financial advisory firm headquartered in New York, New York, with annual revenues of approximately $28 million, for a purchase price of $25 million.  

Subsequent to December 31, 2007, on January 1, 2008, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. acquired certain assets of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc., a multi-line insurance agency headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi, with annual revenues of approximately $13 million, for a purchase price of $24 million.  

21  

On November 4, 2006, Regions merged with AmSouth Bancorporation (“AmSouth”), headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. In the transaction, AmSouth was merged with and into Regions Financial Corporation. The combination with AmSouth added approximately $57.9 billion of assets (including excess purchase price), $34.6 billion of loans, net of unearned income, and $37.5 billion of deposits (including divested deposits). This transaction was accounted for as a purchase of 100 percent of the voting interests of AmSouth by Regions and, accordingly, financial results for periods prior to November 4, 2006 have not been restated. AmSouth’s assets and liabilities were recorded at estimated fair values and its results of operations were included in Regions’ results beginning in November 2006. Note 2 “Business Combinations and Assets Held for Sale” provides a summary of AmSouth’s balance sheet. Comparisons with prior periods are significantly impacted by the merger with AmSouth.  

The Company completed the operational integration of AmSouth into Regions during 2007. As part of the integration process, Regions converted its mortgage, brokerage, trust, and payroll and benefits platforms, as well as its entire network of 1,965 branches to a common operating platform. Concurrent with the branch conversions, 160 branches in close proximity to one another were consolidated into the remaining branch system. The primary goal of the integration process was to ensure a smooth, seamless transition for Regions’ customers while selecting the best products, systems and other back-office functions from both organizations. By nearly all accounts, branch conversions were well executed, having minimal negative impact to Regions’ customer base. Also related to the merger, during the first quarter of 2007 Regions successfully divested 52 branches, which is discussed later in the “Dispositions” section of this report.  

Regions estimates that it will incur slightly above $700 million in one-time merger-related costs to bring the two companies together. Regions recorded $184.4 million of such costs in excess purchase price during 2006. This amount was subsequently adjusted down by $2.9 million in 2007. The majority of merger costs flowed directly through the income statement. These included $350.9 million and $88.7 million in merger expenses during 2007 and 2006, respectively. The remaining costs are anticipated to be recognized as merger expenses during the first two quarters of 2008.  

Anticipated cost savings are an important driver of any merger transaction. Regions estimates that at least $500 million of ongoing annual cost savings will result from the merger and expects to achieve the full cost savings run rate by mid-2008. Since the merger date, $355.9 million of the total cost savings have been achieved, with $344.5 million of that amount having been achieved during 2007. These savings were primarily recognized in areas such as personnel, occupancy and equipment, operations and technology, and corporate functions.  

On July 1, 2004, Regions merged with Union Planters Corporation (“Union Planters”), which was headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. The combination was accounted for as a purchase of Union Planters by Regions and accordingly, prior period financial statements have not been restated, except certain share and per share amounts related to the exchange of Regions’ common stock.  

Dispositions  

During the first quarter of 2007, through sales to three separate buyers, Regions completed the divestiture of 52 former AmSouth branches having approximately $2.7 billion in deposits and $1.7 billion in loans. These divestitures were required in markets where the merger may have affected competition. The $404.2 million premium received from the divestitures was recorded as a reduction to excess purchase price.  

On March 30, 2007, Regions sold its wholly owned non-conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst Corporation (“EquiFirst”) for a sales price of approximately $76 million. The business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented. The sales price is subject to final resolution of closing date values of net assets sold, which is not yet completed. See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

22  

Business Segments  

Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments:  

General Banking/Treasury  

Regions’ primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions’ banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state-chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The treasury function includes the Company’s securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2007, Regions’ general banking and treasury operations contributed approximately $1.4 billion to consolidated net income.  

Investment Banking, Brokerage and Trust  

Regions provides investment banking, brokerage and trust services in over 400 offices of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (“Morgan Keegan”), a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Morgan Keegan contributed $165.9 million to consolidated net income in 2007. Its lines of business include private client retail brokerage services, fixed-income capital markets, equity capital markets, trust and asset management.  

Insurance  

Regions provides insurance-related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions and a full-line insurance brokerage firm. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 30 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with commercial insurance and credit life products sold to consumer customers. Insurance activities contributed approximately $18.2 million to consolidated net income in 2007.  

See Note 22 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions’ business segments.  

23  

Table 1—Financial Highlights  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Note: Periods prior to November 4, 2006 do not include the effect of Regions’ acquisition of AmSouth. Periods prior to July 1, 2004 do not include the effect of Regions’ acquisition of Union Planters. See Note 2 “Business Combinations and Assets Held for Sale” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the AmSouth acquisition.  

24  

2007 OVERVIEW  

Regions reported net income from continuing operations of $1.95 per diluted share in 2007. Not included in this amount, Regions incurred a $217.4 million pre-tax loss related to EquiFirst resulting in an after-tax net loss for the year of $142.1 million, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Included in 2007 net income of $1.3 billion was $217.5 million in after-tax merger-related expenses (31 cents per diluted share). Net income from continuing operations was $2.71 per diluted share in 2006, including a reduction of 12 cents per diluted share related to $60.3 million in after-tax merger-related expenses. Excluding merger-related charges, annual earnings per share from continuing operations decreased 20 percent to $2.26 in 2007 from $2.83 in 2006. Primary drivers of 2007 net income from continuing operations, other than a full-year impact of the AmSouth merger, were Regions’ solid fee income, record performance at Morgan Keegan, and overall expense control, including merger cost savings. However, certain valuation-related and other charges during the fourth quarter of 2007, as well as a higher provision for loan losses resulting from the rapid deterioration of credit quality, contributed to lower earnings per share for 2007. See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for additional details.  

Return on average stockholders’ equity for the year ended December 31, 2007 was 6.24 percent, compared to 10.94 percent for the same period in 2006. Return on average assets for the year ended December 31, 2007 was 0.90 percent, compared to 1.41 percent for the same period in 2006. Return on average tangible stockholders’ equity was 15.82 percent for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to 22.86 percent for the year ended December 31, 2006 (20.43 percent and 24.85 percent, respectively, excluding merger charges). See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for additional details and Table 1 “Financial Highlights” for additional ratios.  

Net interest income was $4.4 billion in 2007 compared to $3.3 billion in 2006. The increase was driven by a larger balance sheet for the full year, resulting from the merger with AmSouth in late 2006. However, negatively impacting net interest income was a lower net interest margin, which declined to 3.79 percent during 2007 compared to 4.17 percent in 2006. Primary drivers of the reduced net interest margin include the impact of integrating AmSouth’s balance sheet into Regions’ balance sheet, a decline in low-cost deposit balances, and the negative effects of a lower tax-equivalent adjustment resulting from the first quarter 2007 adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”). See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for further details regarding the adoption of FIN 48.  

Net charge-offs totaled $270.5 million, or 0.29 percent of average loans, in 2007 compared to 0.22 percent in 2006. The increased loss rate resulted from deteriorating economic conditions during 2007, especially as related to the housing sector. Non-performing assets increased $484.9 million between December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007 to $864.1 million, primarily due to weakness in the Company’s residential homebuilder portfolio, which began experiencing significant pressure toward the end of 2007. This pressure was due to a combination of declining residential demand and resulting price and collateral value declines in certain of the Company’s markets, particularly areas of Florida and Atlanta, Georgia. Also affecting non-performing assets to a lesser extent was the impact of combining the credit policies and procedures of legacy Regions and AmSouth to form a single credit culture. Regions sold approximately $74.2 million of non-performing loans during the second half of 2007, which somewhat offset the net increase in non-performing assets.  

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in management’s judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2007, the provision for loan losses from continuing operations increased to $555.0 million compared to $142.4 million in 2006. Two primary factors led to the increase. Most notably, 2006 included just two months of provision for loan losses added to the portfolio as a result of the November 2006 merger with AmSouth, while the provision recorded in 2007 reflected the results of the newly merged Regions for the full year. Additionally, the provision rose due to an increase in management’s estimate of inherent losses in its residential homebuilder portfolio, as well as generally weaker conditions in the broader economy.  

25  

As a result of the general economic environment and the deteriorating credit conditions described above, which accelerated late in 2007, Regions increased its allowance for credit losses through a loan loss provision from continuing operations of $555.0 million and a provision for unfunded commitments of $6.4 million, $358.0 million and $2.4 million of which, respectively, were expensed in the fourth quarter. These provisions drove the allowance for credit losses up to 1.45 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, at December 31, 2007, as compared to 1.17 percent at December 31, 2006.  

Non-interest income from continuing operations (excluding securities gains/losses) totaled $2.9 billion or 39 percent of total revenue (fully taxable-equivalent basis) in 2007 compared to $2.0 billion or 37 percent in 2006, and continued to reflect Regions’ diversified revenue stream. Non-interest income increased due to the full-year inclusion of former AmSouth operations in 2007, compared with approximately two months of combined results in 2006. Service charges on deposit accounts increased in 2007 due to increases in the volume of non-sufficient funds (“NSF”) fees collected and higher interchange income, as the number of customer accounts rose through the addition of the AmSouth customer base. A change in the pricing structure of NSF service charges also contributed to the year-over-year increase. In addition to AmSouth-related increases, brokerage and investment banking revenues (mainly from Morgan Keegan’s business lines) were also strong during the year, largely attributable to higher private client activity and solid investment banking transaction flow. These increases were partially offset by a decline in mortgage income, including residential mortgage servicing fees and gains on sales of mortgage loans, during 2007.  

Non-interest expense from continuing operations totaled $4.7 billion in 2007 compared to $3.2 billion in 2006, impacted by merger charges totaling $350.9 million and $88.7 million, respectively. Merger costs consist mainly of personnel expenses, the cost of integrating AmSouth systems with those of Regions and the consolidation of branches. Excluding these merger-related expenses, non-interest expense increased $1.2 billion or 38 percent in 2007 compared to 2006, with the largest driver being the full-year inclusion of the AmSouth expense base in 2007. See Table 8 “Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP reconciliation)” for further details. As an offset to merger costs, non-interest expenses were positively affected by the realization of merger cost savings, which continued to build throughout 2007. These savings exceeded original estimates and totaled $344.5 million for the year. Cost savings are expected to increase through the second quarter of 2008, at which time a total annual savings run-rate in excess of $500 million should be achieved. Merger charges and an overall higher level of expense related to the larger size of post-merger Regions notwithstanding, non-interest expenses were impacted most significantly by higher salaries and employee benefit costs, driven by merit increases, and an increase in core deposit intangible amortization expense resulting from the AmSouth acquisition. In addition, Regions’ commission-driven revenues such as brokerage, investment banking and mortgage did, and will continue to, impact non-interest expense levels in direct correlation to revenue trends.  

The balance sheet decreased slightly in size in 2007 on a period-end basis, due largely to the impact of merger-related loan and deposit divestitures and a smaller investment securities portfolio. In addition, demand for residential-related real estate lending softened during the year, primarily a result of the challenging economic backdrop and industry-wide tightening of credit. Total loans were relatively unchanged comparing December 31, 2007 to the prior year end, while deposit divestitures totaling $2.7 billion contributed to the year-over-year decline in total deposits. Beyond the divestitures, changes in customers’ investment preferences fueled by changing interest rates and modestly improving equity markets early in the year further pressured deposit balances, which, excluding divested deposits, declined four percent overall in 2007 versus year end 2006.  

26  

Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding discontinued operations and merger charges (“non-GAAP”). Merger charges are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Regions believes the exclusion of merger charges in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures, including “earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding merger charges” and “return on average tangible equity, excluding discontinued operations and merger charges,” provides a meaningful base for period-to-period and company-to-company comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions’ business, because management does not consider merger charges to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures for the following purposes:  

   •    Preparation of Regions’ operating budgets  

   •    Calculation of performance-based annual incentive bonuses for certain executives  

   •    Calculation of performance-based multi-year incentive bonuses for certain executives  

   •    Monthly financial performance reporting, including segment reporting  

   •    Monthly close-out “flash” reporting of consolidated results (management only)  

   •    Presentations to investors of Company performance  

Regions believes that presenting these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors.  

Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies in place to address expenses that qualify as merger charges and procedures in place to approve and segregate merger charges from other normal operating expenses to ensure that the Company’s operating results are properly reflected for period-to-period comparisons. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes merger charges does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., merger charges are a reduction to earnings and stockholders’ equity).  

See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” below for computations of earnings and certain other GAAP financial measures and the corresponding reconciliation to non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude discontinued operations and merger charges for the periods presented.  

27  

Table 2—GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

28  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, intangible assets (excess purchase price and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses (“allowance”) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Management evaluates the adequacy of the allowance based on the total of these two components. Determining the appropriate level of the allowance is one of the most critical and complex accounting estimates for any financial institution. Accounting guidance requires Regions to make a number of estimates related to the level of credit losses inherent in the portfolio at year end. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors can be found in the “Allowance for Credit Losses” section within the discussion of credit risk, found in a later section of this report.  

The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, and external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews scenarios having different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions’ estimate of the allowance and results of operations.  

Management’s estimate of the allowance for commercial products, which includes commercial, real estate construction and real estate mortgages (except residential real estate mortgages and home equity lending), could be affected by risk rating upgrades or downgrades as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individual credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. A reasonably possible scenario would be an estimated 10 percent migration of lower risk-related pass credits to criticized status, which could increase estimated inherent losses by approximately $101 million. A 10 percent reduction in the level of criticized credits is also a reasonably possible scenario, which would result in an approximate $29 million decrease in estimated inherent losses.   

For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer-related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pool). The total of all residential loans, including residential real estate mortgages and home equity lending, represents approximately 34 percent of total loans. Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 10-basis-point increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these residential loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $32 million. The loss analysis related to consumer loans includes reasonably possible scenarios with estimated loss rates increasing or decreasing by 25 basis points, which would increase or decrease the related estimated inherent losses by approximately $15 million, respectively.  

Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for credit losses for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in interest rates, unemployment or employment rates, bankruptcy filings, used car prices, real estate demand and values, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. While no one factor is dominant, each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ materially from originally estimated amounts.  

The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome.  

29  

Intangible Assets  

Regions’ intangible assets consist primarily of excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (excess purchase price) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles). Regions’ excess purchase price is tested for impairment annually, or more often if events or circumstances indicate impairment may exist. Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the business unit, or other factors could result in a decline in implied fair value of excess purchase price. If the implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to implied fair value. These changes or factors, when they occur, could be material to Regions’ operating results for any particular reporting period; the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated.  

Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles, are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset, such as loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, when they occur, could be material to Regions’ operating results for any particular reporting period; the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

For purposes of evaluating mortgage servicing impairment, Regions must estimate the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices. Although sales of MSRs do occur, the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the value of the related MSRs. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its MSRs using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates and discount rates. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors could result in impairment of the servicing asset and a charge against earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2007 fair value of MSRs by approximately 10 percent ($34 million) and 22 percent ($74 million), respectively. Conversely, 25-basis-point and 50-basis-point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2007 fair value of MSRs by approximately eight percent ($28 million) and 15 percent ($50 million), respectively.  

The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome.  

Income Taxes  

Accrued taxes represent the estimated amount payable to or receivable from taxing jurisdictions, either currently or in the future, and are reported, on a net basis, as a component of “other liabilities” (as Regions is in a net payable position) in the consolidated balance sheets. The calculation of Regions’ income tax expense is complex and requires the use of many estimates and judgments in its determination.  

Management’s determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon management’s judgment of various future events and uncertainties, including the timing and amount of future income earned by certain subsidiaries and the implementation of various tax plans to maximize realization of the deferred tax asset. Management believes that the subsidiaries will generate sufficient operating earnings to realize the deferred tax benefits.  

From time to time, for certain business plans enacted by Regions, management bases the estimates of related tax liabilities on its belief that future events will validate management’s current assumptions regarding the ultimate outcome of tax-related exposures. While Regions has obtained the opinion of advisors that the   

30  

 anticipated tax treatment of these transactions should prevail and has assessed the relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment, examination of Regions’ income tax returns, changes in tax law and regulatory guidance may impact the tax treatment of these transactions and resulting provisions for income taxes. For example, as a result of normal examinations of Regions’ income tax returns, Regions has received notices of proposed adjustments relating to taxes due for certain years. Regions believes that adequate provisions for income taxes have been recorded and intends to vigorously contest the proposed adjustments. To the extent, however, that final resolution of the proposed adjustments results in significantly different conclusions from Regions’ current assessment of the proposed adjustments, Regions’ effective tax rate in any given financial reporting period may be materially different from its current effective tax rate.  

Regions adopted FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007. See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

OPERATING RESULTS  

GENERAL  

Net income totaled $1.3 billion in 2007, an eight percent decrease from 2006 net income. Net income from continuing operations, which excludes the operations of EquiFirst, increased two percent to $1.4 billion in 2007. After-tax merger-related expenses of approximately $217.5 million and $60.3 million were incurred during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Excluding the impact of merger-related charges, earnings from continuing operations were $1.6 billion in 2007 compared to $1.4 billion in 2006.  

NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN  

Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions’ principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions’ ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income from continuing operations increased 33 percent to $4.4 billion in 2007 from $3.3 billion in 2006. The increase is primarily related to a larger average earning asset base due to the AmSouth merger.  

Regions measures its ability to produce net interest income using the net interest margin ratio, which is net interest income (on a fully taxable-equivalent basis) as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. The net interest margin is presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis to consistently reflect income from taxable and tax-exempt loans and securities. The net interest margin decreased from 4.17 percent in 2006 to 3.79 percent in 2007, largely a result of combining Regions’ balance sheet with that of the former AmSouth. Pre-merger AmSouth’s net interest margin was lower than that of pre-merger Regions. Other than the merger, changes in the net interest margin during the year occurred primarily due to a decline in low-cost deposits, a narrowing interest rate spread—a result of changing market interest rates and their affect on the pricing and repricing of Regions’ interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, branch divestitures, and a large tax deposit made with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). Although the tax deposit lowered the net interest margin, it was accretive to net income. Also, a lower tax-equivalent adjustment, resulting from the January 1, 2007 adoption of FIN 48 relating to accounting for uncertain tax positions, contributed to year-over-year margin compression. See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for further details of the adoption of FIN 48.  

Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis Including Discontinued Operations” presents a detail of net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, and the net interest margin.  

31  

Table 3—Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis Including Discontinued Operations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Notes:  

 (1) Loans, net of unearned income include non-accrual loans for all periods presented.  

 (2) Interest income includes loan fees of $78,568,000, $81,460,000 and $77,957,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

 (3) The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.  

32  

Table 4—Volume and Yield/Rate Variances   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Notes:  

 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.  

 2. The computation of taxable net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.  

33  

Comparing 2007 to 2006, interest-earning asset yields were slightly lower, decreasing five basis points, while interest-bearing liability rates were higher, increasing 30 basis points. As a result, Regions’ average interest rate spread declined to 3.13 percent in 2007 as compared to 3.48 percent in 2006.  

The year-over-year comparison of funding cost was most significantly impacted by the addition of AmSouth’s interest-bearing liabilities, which carried a higher overall funding cost than that of pre-merger Regions. Aside from the merger, changes in market rates affected deposit pricing as well. Since a large portion of Regions’ funding base is in the form of time deposits (e.g., certificates of deposits), it takes some period of time for the benefits of decreases in market rates to be realized and to impact the overall cost of funds for the Company. Due to this repricing lag, in addition to intense competition for deposits throughout Regions’ operating footprint, funding costs increased throughout the year.  

In terms of changes in the broad interest rate environment, the Fed Funds rate, which is an influential driver of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, declined 100 basis points during 2007, ending the year at 4.25 percent. Longer-term rates experienced less movement, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note declining 67 basis points over the same period and ending the year at 4.04 percent. Both interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities were impacted by these changes in market rates. In addition, as new loan production was added to the balance sheet during 2007, these loans were made at yields lower than that of the existing portfolio. The EquiFirst sale also affected overall interest-earning asset yields, because the loans sold generally carried higher yields than the rest of Regions’ loan portfolio.  

The previously described branch divestitures also affected the net interest margin, since over half of the deposits divested were low-cost or interest-free in nature. In addition, approximately $1.7 billion of loans were sold in the divestiture transactions. The combination of the lower interest-earning asset base resulting from the loan divestitures, and the divestiture of low-cost and interest-free deposits, negatively impacted 2007 net interest income. The annualized net interest income impact of the divestitures is approximately $81 million.  

The mix of interest-earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions’ primary types of interest-earning assets are loans and investment securities. Interest-earning assets at December 31, 2007 totaled $116.1 billion, a decrease of $5.1 billion as compared to the prior year. On an average basis, interest-earning assets were 41 percent higher in 2007, largely the result of the full-year inclusion of former AmSouth balances. The proportion of interest-earning assets to total assets measures the effectiveness of management’s efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest-earning vehicles and represented 82 percent and 85 percent of total assets at year end 2007 and 2006, respectively. Average loans as a percentage of interest-earning assets was 81 percent in 2007 and 78 percent in 2006. The categories which comprise interest-earning assets are shown in Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis Including Discontinued Operations”.  

Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest-earning assets funded by interest-bearing liabilities. Funding for Regions’ interest-earning assets comes from interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing sources. The net spread on interest-earning assets funded by non-interest-bearing liabilities and stockholders’ equity is higher than the net spread on interest-earning assets funded by interest-bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest-earning assets funded by average interest-bearing liabilities was 82 percent in 2007 and 80 percent in 2006. This increase negatively impacted the net interest margin in 2007.  

During 2007 and 2006, Regions used interest rate derivatives to hedge certain asset and liability positions. These derivatives had the effect of decreasing net interest income by $13.9 million in 2007 and decreasing it by $30.4 million in 2006. See the “Risk Management” section later in this report for further detailed discussion.  

Table 4 “Volume and Yield/Rate Variances” provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income.  

34  

Provision for Loan Losses  

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in management’s judgment is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2007, the provision for loan losses from continuing operations increased to $555.0 million compared to $142.4 million in 2006. This increase is reflective of an increase in management’s estimate of inherent losses in the loan portfolio, which was driven by two primary factors. Most notably, 2006 included just two months of provision for loan losses that were added to the portfolio as a result of the November 2006 merger with AmSouth, while the provision recorded in 2007 was for the loan portfolio of the newly merged Regions for the full year. Additionally, the provision rose due to an increase in management’s estimate of losses inherent in its residential homebuilder portfolio, as well as generally weaker conditions in the broader economy. Net loan charge-offs also rose during 2007, increasing to $270.5 million as compared to $139.9 million in 2006. The resulting year end 2007 allowance for loan losses increased $265.3 million to $1.3 billion. For further discussion of the total allowance for credit losses, see the “Risk Management” section found later in this report and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.  

NON-INTEREST INCOME  

The following section contains a discussion of non-interest income from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income.  

Non-interest income represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest-earning assets. Table 5 “Non-Interest Income” provides a detail of the components of non-interest income. Non-interest income (excluding securities transactions) totaled $2.9 billion in 2007 compared to $2.0 billion in 2006. The increase in non-interest income is due primarily to full-year inclusion of former AmSouth operations in 2007, compared with approximately two months of AmSouth results in 2006. In addition to the merger-related increase, service charges on deposit accounts and brokerage and investment banking income were strong during 2007. These increases were partially offset by decreases in mortgage income resulting from the mortgage banking environment, which became increasingly difficult as the year progressed. Non-interest income (excluding securities transactions) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable-equivalent basis) equaled 39 percent in 2007 compared to 37 percent in 2006.  

Table 5—Non-Interest Income  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

35  

Service Charges on Deposit Accounts  

Income from service charges on deposit accounts increased 61 percent to $1.2 billion in 2007 from $722.0 million in 2006, mainly due to the full-year inclusion of AmSouth operations in 2007. In addition to the increased number of accounts related to the merger, 2007 results were affected by the implementation of a tiered NSF pricing structure, as well as volume-related increases in NSF fees and interchange income due primarily to the addition of AmSouth activity in 2007.  

Brokerage, Investment Banking and Trust  

Regions’ primary source of brokerage, investment banking and trust revenue is its subsidiary, Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegan’s revenues are predominantly recorded in the brokerage and investment banking and trust department income lines of the consolidated statements of income, while a smaller portion is reported in other non-interest income.  

Morgan Keegan contributed $1.3 billion in total revenues in 2007, up from $1.0 billion in 2006. Total brokerage and investment banking revenues increased 24 percent to $830.8 million in 2007 from $669.4 million in 2006. Part of this increase is again attributable to the November 2006 merger with AmSouth, as 2006 only included approximately two months of combined results compared to a full year for 2007. Merger benefits have been realized mainly through an expanded customer base, primarily through additional Morgan Keegan offices opened in the former AmSouth retail branches. Results for 2007 were strong across the board and included strong private client revenues, healthy fixed-income capital markets activity, solid equity capital markets revenues from good investment banking transaction flow, and higher trust and asset management fees. Morgan Keegan’s second quarter 2007 acquisition of Shattuck Hammond, an investment banking and financial advisory firm specializing in the health care industry, also bolstered fixed-income capital markets revenues. As of December 31, 2007, Morgan Keegan employed approximately 1,300 financial advisors. Customer assets under management were approximately $80.0 billion at year end 2007 compared to approximately $76 billion at year end 2006.  

Revenues from the private client division, which was the top revenue producing line of business, totaled $393.5 million, or 30 percent of Morgan Keegan’s total revenue in 2007 compared to $305.1 million, or 30 percent in 2006. The private client line of business benefited from equity markets volatility, as well as the increased number of financial advisors and branch outlets in 2007 related to opening Morgan Keegan offices in former AmSouth branches throughout the footprint. Fixed-income capital markets revenue totaled $244.4 million and $187.4 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, benefiting from higher trading volumes. Equity capital markets revenue totaled $103.3 million in 2007, essentially unchanged from the 2006 level. The asset management division produced $188.9 million of revenue in 2007 and $149.5 million in 2006.  

Morgan Keegan’s pre-tax income was negatively affected during 2007 by $42.8 million in losses on investments in two open-ended mutual funds managed by Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions. The Company, through Morgan Keegan, purchased fund shares in order to provide liquidity to the funds. The carrying value of these investments, which is equal to their estimated market value, was approximately $64.6 million as of December 31, 2007.  

Trust department income increased 59 percent to $251.3 million in 2007, driven by full-year inclusion of AmSouth results. The increase resulted from an increase in assets under management from both the merger and internal growth and higher fees.  

36  

Table 6 “Morgan Keegan” details the components of Morgan Keegan’s contribution to the Company’s revenue and earnings for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Table 7 “Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division” illustrates Morgan Keegan’s revenues by division for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.  

Table 6—Morgan Keegan  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 7—Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

37  

Mortgage Income  

Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long-term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased 24 percent, from $178.7 million in 2006 to $135.7 million in 2007, primarily due to the increasingly challenging mortgage industry environment (see “Economic Environment in Regions’ Banking Markets” later in this report), which deteriorated as the year progressed. At December 31, 2007, Regions’ servicing portfolio totaled $43.1 billion and included approximately 380,000 loans. Of this portfolio, $26.9 billion were serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2006, the servicing portfolio totaled $43.0 billion, $30.4 billion of which were serviced for third parties. Regions’ mortgage division, primarily through retail operations in its 16-state footprint, originated mortgage loans totaling $6.9 billion in 2007 compared to $5.6 billion in 2006. The increase is primarily related to the inclusion of full-year AmSouth operations.  

During the first quarter of 2007, Regions sold its non-conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst for a sales price of approximately $76 million and recorded an after-tax gain of approximately $1 million. The sales price is subject to final resolution of closing date values of net assets sold, which is not yet completed. See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. During the third quarter of 2007, Regions also exited the wholesale warehouse lending business as a result of risk and return considerations. Regions believes there will be no material effect on future revenue or earnings from continuing operations related to this business decision. Also late in 2007, Regions sold approximately $1.9 billion of its $4.5 billion out-of-market mortgage servicing portfolio, accounting for approximately $25.6 million of its MSR assets, realizing a loss on the sale of approximately $4.4 million. This loss is primarily due to market rate changes and transaction costs.  

Net Securities Gains (Losses)  

Regions reported net losses of $8.6 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2007, as compared to net gains of $8.1 million in 2006. The 2007 losses were primarily related to the sale of federal agency securities in conjunction with balance sheet management activities.  

Commercial Credit Fee Income  

Commercial credit fee income includes letters of credit fees and fees earned through Regions executing capital market derivative transactions including interest rate swaps, caps and floors on its commercial customers’ behalf. With respect to derivatives, in most instances, Regions enters into offsetting positions, significantly reducing or eliminating its exposure to customer derivative positions. Derivative exposures are actively managed and marked-to-market on a daily basis. Commercial credit fee income increased $29.4 million to $104.3 million in 2007 compared to $74.9 million in 2006. This increase was driven by higher customer derivative transactions, as customers actively managed their interest rate exposure in response to uncertainty regarding the direction of interest rates.  

Insurance Commissions  

Insurance commissions and fees income increased 16 percent to $99.4 million in 2007, compared to $85.5 million in 2006. This increase is primarily due to increased revenue from the acquisition of Miles & Finch during the year, increased commissions related to new business production, and increased cross-selling efforts as a result of the AmSouth merger within Regions’ banking and brokerage segments.  

Other Income  

Other income increased in 2007 due to higher gains on sales of student loans and an increase in bank-owned life insurance income. Gains on the sale of loans increased in 2007 to $32.1 million compared to $0.7 million in 2006, reflecting a bulk sale of student loans and related servicing in early 2007. Bank-owned life insurance income increased $50.2 million due to the AmSouth acquisition and, to a lesser extent, the purchase of $896.6 million of additional life insurance late in the year.  

38  

NON-INTEREST EXPENSE  

The following section contains a discussion of non-interest expense from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income.  

The largest components of non-interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Total non-interest expense increased $1.5 billion, or 45 percent, to $4.7 billion in 2007, related primarily to the AmSouth merger. Included in non-interest expense are merger-related expenses totaling $350.9 million in 2007 and $88.7 million in 2006.  

Table 8 “Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP reconciliation)” presents major non-interest expense components, both including and excluding merger-related expenses, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Management believes Table 8 is useful in evaluating trends in non-interest expense. Note that 2007 and 2006 merger-related charges as shown in this table relate to Regions’ acquisition of AmSouth, while the 2005 amounts relate to Regions’ acquisition of Union Planters. See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation,” and the text preceding it, for further discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.  

39  

Table 8—Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP reconciliation)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

40  

Salaries and Employee Benefits  

Total salaries and employee benefits increased $612.0 million, or 33 percent, in 2007. The majority of the increase was due to the November 2006 addition of approximately 12,000 AmSouth associates. Included in salaries and employee benefits are merger charges of $158.6 million in 2007 and $65.7 million in 2006. In addition to merger-related items, drivers of the year-over-year increase include normal annual compensation adjustments and higher incentive payouts at Morgan Keegan, as well as merit increases in other areas of the Company. Included in salaries and benefits are payroll taxes, which increased $33.8 million due to the additional number of associates for the full year, combined with increased salary levels.  

At December 31, 2007, Regions had 33,161 employees compared to 36,517 at December 31, 2006. Headcount reductions were largely the result of the sale of EquiFirst (approximately 1,300 associates), merger-related branch divestitures (approximately 500 associates), branch consolidations and normal attrition.  

Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. New enrollment in the Regions pension plan ended effective December 31, 2000. New enrollment in the legacy AmSouth pension plan ended effective with the merger date, November 4, 2006. Former AmSouth employees enrolled as of November 4, 2006 continue to be active in the plan, but no additional participants will be added. Effective September 30, 2007, the two pension plans merged into one plan. Regions’ 401(k) plans include a company match of eligible employee contributions. At December 31, 2007, this match totaled 100 percent of the eligible employee contribution (up to six percent of compensation). See Note 17 “Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions’ lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. At Morgan Keegan, commissions and incentives are a key component of compensation, which is typical in the brokerage and investment banking industry. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. Regions’ long-term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 “Share-Based Payments” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Net Occupancy Expense  

Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Occupancy expense increased $159.1 million, or 62 percent, in 2007 due primarily to the full-year inclusion of AmSouth operations. Included in net occupancy expense were merger charges of $33.8 million in 2007 and $3.5 million in 2006. Other increases were related to new and acquired branch offices and rising price levels. In conjunction with the merger integration, Regions consolidated 160 branches into other existing branches in overlapping areas within its footprint.  

Furniture and Equipment Expense  

Furniture and equipment expense increased $143.4 million to $301.3 million in 2007. This increase is due primarily to the additional offices and equipment acquired through the AmSouth merger and the related depreciation expense.  

Professional Fees  

Professional fees expense is comprised of fees related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. Professional fees increased $54.8 million to $152.0 million in 2007, of which $34.6 million represent merger-related charges. The increase is attributable to higher consulting fees related to merger integration, legal fees related to special assets litigation resulting from credit deterioration, and miscellaneous merger-related professional fees during the year.  

41  

Marketing  

Marketing expense increased $63.9 million during 2007 (including $42.9 million of merger-related charges) to $134.1 million from $70.2 million in 2006, primarily due to expenses related to post-merger rebranding initiatives, marketing campaigns run to coincide with branch conversions, as well as customer communications associated with branch conversions and consolidations.  

Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles  

Amortization of core deposit intangibles totaled $155.3 million, an increase of $91.8 million in 2007, driven by amortization of $121.0 million of core deposit intangibles related to the AmSouth merger.  

Amortization of Mortgage Servicing Rights and Impairment of Mortgage Servicing Rights  

Amortization expense related to mortgage servicing rights increased 12 percent to $78.9 million in 2007 compared to $70.6 million in 2006. Declining market interest rates and higher prepayment assumptions drove changes in servicing asset valuations, leading to the increase in amortization expense in 2007 compared to 2006. Impairment of mortgage servicing rights decreased by $10.0 million compared to 2006, representing the fluctuations in market values based on the period-end dates.  

Other Miscellaneous Expenses  

Other miscellaneous expenses include outside services, communications, and business and development services. Other non-interest expenses also reflects non-merger charges recorded in the latter half of 2007, including a $51.5 million charge for liabilities related to the Visa USA Inc. antitrust lawsuit settlement with American Express and other pending Visa litigation (reflecting Regions’ share as a former Visa member). Regions expects that proceeds from an anticipated share redemption related to its interest in Visa’s planned initial public offering should offset these charges in 2008. Also included in other non-interest expenses is $38.5 million of losses related to investments in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds discussed earlier in this report.  

INCOME TAXES  

Regions’ 2007 provision for income taxes from continuing operations totaled $645.7 million, an increase of $26.6 million compared to 2006. Regions’ effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2007 was 31.7 percent, as compared to 31.1 percent in 2006. The effective tax rate increased primarily due to the full-year inclusion of AmSouth results and the adoption of FIN 48. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48, Regions recorded a cumulative reduction in equity of $259.0 million as of January 1, 2007. During 2007, the adoption of FIN 48 increased income tax expense and decreased after-tax net income by approximately $65 million.  

From time to time, Regions engages in business plans that may also have an effect on its tax liabilities. While Regions has obtained the opinion of advisors that the tax aspects of these strategies should prevail, examination of Regions’ income tax returns or changes in tax law may impact the tax benefits of these plans.  

Periodically, Regions invests in pass-through investment vehicles that generate tax credits, principally low-income housing credits and non-conventional fuel source credits, which directly reduce Regions’ federal income tax liability. Congress has enacted these tax credit programs to encourage capital inflows to these investment vehicles. The amount of tax benefit recognized from these tax credits was $81.3 million in 2007 compared to $31.2 million in 2006. The non-conventional fuel source credits, which totaled $39.6 million in 2007, expired at the end of 2007.  

Regions has segregated a portion of its investment securities and intellectual property into separate legal entities in order to, among other business purposes, protect such tangible and intangible assets from inappropriate   

42  

 claims of Regions’ creditors and to maximize the return on such assets by the professional and focused management thereof. Regions has recognized state tax benefits related to these legal entities of $45.8 million in 2007 compared to $37.8 million in 2006.  

With few exceptions in certain state jurisdictions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal or state and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 1998, which would include audits of acquired entities. In the normal course of these examinations, Regions is subject to challenges from governmental authorities regarding amounts of taxes due. The IRS and certain states have proposed various adjustments to the Company’s previously filed tax returns, including proposed adjustments relating to an increase in taxable income of a mortgage-related subsidiary and to the proper tax treatment of certain leveraged lease transactions that were entered into during the years under examination. Regions believes adequate provision for income taxes has been recorded for all years open for review and intends to vigorously contest the proposed adjustments. To the extent that final resolution of the proposed adjustments results in significantly different conclusions from Regions’ current assessment of the proposed adjustments, Regions’ effective tax rate in any given financial reporting period may be materially different from its current effective tax rate.  

Management’s determination of the realization of deferred tax assets is based upon management’s judgment of various future events and uncertainties, including the timing, nature and amount of future income earned by certain subsidiaries and the implementation of various plans to maximize realization of the deferred tax asset. Management believes that the subsidiaries will generate sufficient operating earnings to realize the deferred tax benefits. However, management does not believe that it is more-likely-than-not that all of its state net operating loss carryforwards will be realized. Accordingly, a valuation allowance has been established in the amount of $19.2 million against such benefits in 2007 compared to $16.1 million in 2006.  

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 19 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about the provision for income taxes.  

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS  

At December 31, 2007, Regions reported total assets of $141.0 billion compared to $143.4 billion at the end of 2006, a decline of approximately $2.3 billion or two percent. The primary drivers of the decline were the merger-related divestitures of 52 AmSouth branches, an investment securities portfolio that declined in size as a result of interest rate sensitivity management efforts coupled with unfavorable reinvestment alternatives, and lower demand for certain categories of loans.  

Loans  

Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 81 percent of total interest-earning assets at December 31, 2007. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three functional lines: commercial loans (including financial and agricultural), real estate loans and consumer loans. The composition of the portfolio by these major categories, with real estate loans further broken down between mortgage and construction loans, and consumer loans further broken down into home equity, indirect and other consumer loans, is presented in Table 9 “Loan Portfolio.”  

43  

Year-end total loans, net of unearned income, remained relatively flat for 2007 versus 2006. A challenging economic environment, particularly in the real estate sector, was the primary factor leading to the modest growth rate. Table 9 shows a year-over-year comparison of loans by loan type. However, 2007 loan classifications within this table have been impacted by conversion-related re-mapping during 2007, making year-over-year comparisons difficult. In general, the reclassifications shifted balances from the commercial category into the real estate mortgage or real estate construction categories.  

Table 9—Loan Portfolio  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 10—Selected Loan Maturities(1) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Table 10 excludes residential real estate mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans.  

Commercial Loans—Commercial loans represent loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases or other expansion projects.  

Real Estate Mortgage Loans—Real estate mortgage loans consist of loans to businesses for long-term financing of land and buildings, loans for real estate development (residential and income-producing property types), residential home mortgages and various other loans secured by real estate. While demand for residential mortgage loans remained at normal levels during the first half of 2007, growth slowed later in the year as the credit markets contracted due to softening in the housing market.  

Loans to consumers with weak credit history, generally called “sub-prime loans,” were a cause for industry concern in 2007 as the performance of these loans deteriorated significantly during the year. Regions’ exposure   

44  

 to sub-prime loans is insignificant, at approximately $100 million at December 31, 2007, and continues to decline. The credit loss exposure related to these loans is addressed in management’s periodic determination of the allowance for credit losses.  

Real Estate Construction Loans—Real estate construction loans are loans to individuals, companies or developers used for the purchase or construction of a commercial property for which repayment will be generated by cash flows related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. A significant portion of Regions’ real estate construction portfolio is comprised of residential product types (land, single-family and condo loans) within Regions’ markets followed by retail and multi-family projects. Typically, these loans are for construction projects that have been presold, preleased or otherwise have secured permanent financing as well as loans to real estate companies that have significant equity invested in each project.  

During late 2007, the residential homebuilder portfolio, which totaled $7.2 billion as of December 31, 2007, came under significant stress. In Table 9 “Loan Portfolio”, the majority of these loans is reported in the real estate construction loan category, while a smaller portion is reported as real estate mortgage loans. The residential homebuilder portfolio is geographically concentrated in Florida and Regions’ East region, mainly Atlanta, Georgia. Regions has realigned its organizational structure to enable some of the Company’s most experienced bankers to concentrate their efforts on management of this portfolio. See the “Credit Risk” section later in this report for further detail on the residential homebuilder portfolio.  

Home Equity Lending—Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower’s residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values as of the time the loan or line is secured directly affect the amount of credit extended and, in addition, changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. During 2007, home equity lending balances increased slightly over the year ended December 31, 2006.  

Indirect Lending—Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third-party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. Loans of this type decreased $99 million, or two percent, during 2007 due to a generally weaker economy. This lending category has historically included marine loans and loans on recreational vehicles. Regions made a business decision to no longer offer these lines of lending in 2007. Due to this decision, these loans are a declining element in the overall loan portfolio. Outstanding marine and recreational vehicle loans totaled approximately $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion at year end 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Other Consumer Loans—Other consumer loans include all consumer loans not classified as real estate mortgage, home equity or indirect, including direct consumer installment loans, bankcard, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans increased four percent in 2007 versus 2006.  

Loans Held for Sale  

At December 31, 2007, loans held for sale totaled $720.9 million and consisted of residential real estate mortgage loans in the process of being sold to third parties. At December 31, 2006, loans held for sale totaled $4.9 billion and consisted of $3.3 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans (including $1.7 billion of EquiFirst loans) and student loans, and $1.6 billion of loans to be sold related to the 2007 branch divestitures. Excluding the divested loans, loans held for sale decreased $2.6 billion, due mainly to the sale of EquiFirst. In addition, lower origination volumes and tightening of the secondary market for mortgage production, as a result of the weakening housing market in 2007, contributed to the decrease during 2007.  

45  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses represents management’s estimate of credit losses inherent in both the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments as of the balance sheet date. The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loans losses, which is recorded as a contra-asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. At December 31, 2007, the allowance for credit losses totaled $1.4 billion or 1.45 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, compared to $1.1 billion or 1.17 percent at year-end 2006. See “Allowance for Credit Losses” in the Risk Management section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance.  

Securities  

Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, regulatory capital, and to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high-quality mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities. Securities represented 12 percent of total assets at December 31, 2007 compared with 13 percent at December 31, 2006. In 2007, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, decreased $1.2 billion, or six percent. This contraction of the portfolio was largely the result of prepayments of mortgage-backed securities, management’s decision in general not to reinvest funds from the maturity of securities back into a relatively unattractive securities market, as well as sales during 2007 in conjunction with balance sheet management activities. The “Interest Rate Risk” section, found later in this report, further explains Regions’ interest rate risk management practices. The weighted-average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 5.03 percent in 2007 and 2006. Table 11 “Securities” illustrates the carrying values of securities by category.  

Table 11—Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

At December 31, 2007, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $149.6 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. At December 31, 2006, securities available for sale included a net unrealized loss of $115.3 million. The net unrealized gain at December 31, 2007, reflects the impact on bond prices of declining interest rates in 2007 as well as purchases, maturities and sales throughout the year. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax.  

In January 2008, Regions sold approximately $1.1 billion of agency debentures and recognized a gain of approximately $52.8 million. Approximately $650 million of the related proceeds were reinvested in U.S. Treasury securities classified as trading, which are expected to be sold during the first quarter of 2008. The remainder of the proceeds, approximately $465 million, was reinvested in mortgage-backed securities classified as available for sale. Also during January 2008, Regions sold approximately $325 million in U.S. Treasury securities classified as trading account assets and recognized a gain of approximately $2.5 million.  

46  

Maturity Analysis—The average life of the securities portfolio at December 31, 2007 was estimated to be 3.8 years, with a duration of approximately 2.9 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 4.1 years, with a duration of approximately 3.3 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2006. Table 12 “Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities” provides additional details.  

Table 12—Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Notes:  

 1. The weighted-average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted-average yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35%. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non-deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax-exempt obligations.  

 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above.  

Portfolio Quality—Regions’ investment policy stresses credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 94 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2007. State, county, and local municipal securities rated below single A or which are non-rated represented only 0.1 percent of total securities at year end 2007.  

Trading Account Assets  

Trading account assets decreased $535.7 million to $907.3 million at December 31, 2007. Trading account assets, which consist of U.S. Government agency and guaranteed securities and corporate and tax-exempt securities, are held at Morgan Keegan for the purpose of selling at a profit. Trading account assets are carried at market value with changes in market value reflected in the consolidated statements of income. Table 13 “Trading Account Assets” provides a detail by type of security.  

47  

Table 13—Trading Account Assets  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Margin Receivables  

Margin receivables totaled $504.6 million at December 31, 2007 and $570.1 million at December 31, 2006. Margin receivables represent funds advanced to brokerage customers for the purchase of securities that are secured by certain marketable securities held in the customer’s brokerage account. The risk of loss from these receivables is minimized by requiring that customers maintain marketable securities in the brokerage account that have a fair market value substantially in excess of the funds advanced to the customer.  

Premises and Equipment  

Premises and equipment at December 31, 2007 increased $212.4 million to $2.6 billion compared to year end 2006. This increase primarily resulted from the opening of 50 new branches during 2007, partially offset by the divestiture of 52 branches in 2007.  

Excess Purchase Price  

Excess purchase price at December 31, 2007 totaled $11.5 billion as compared to $11.2 billion at December 31, 2006, with the increase driven by finalizing the purchase price adjustments related to the AmSouth merger. See Note 2 “Business Combinations and Assets Held for Sale” to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of the AmSouth-related excess purchase price.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2007 totaled $321.3 million compared to $374.9 million at December 31, 2006. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Table 14 “Mortgage Servicing Rights.” The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors and include original amounts capitalized, less accumulated amortization and a valuation allowance. The carrying values of mortgage servicing rights are affected by various factors, including estimated prepayments of the underlying mortgages. A significant change in prepayments of mortgages in the servicing portfolio could result in significant changes in the valuation adjustments, thus creating potential volatility in the carrying amount of mortgage servicing rights. The mortgage servicing rights valuation allowance increased by $6.0 million in 2007, due to lower mortgage rates and corresponding increased estimated prepayment speeds. On December 31, 2007, mortgage servicing rights on approximately $1.9 billion of loans in Regions’ out-of-market servicing portfolio, totaling approximately $25.6 million, were sold for a loss of $4.4 million.  

48  

Table 14—Mortgage Servicing Rights  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other Identifiable Intangible Assets  

Other identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of core deposit intangibles (“CDI”), totaled $759.8 million at December 31, 2007 compared to $957.8 million at December 31, 2006. The year-over-year decline, net of amortization of previously existing intangibles, is primarily attributable to finalizing valuations of CDI recorded in connection with the AmSouth merger. See Note 9 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Other Assets  

Other assets increased $2.7 billion to $6.8 billion as of December 31, 2007. This increase is primarily related to a tax deposit made with the IRS and an $896.6 million purchase of bank-owned life insurance during the latter part of the year.  

Also included in other assets during the year were investments of approximately $55.0 million in the Regions Morgan Keegan (“RMK”) Select High Income Fund and approximately $75.0 million in the RMK Select Intermediate Bond Fund, purchased by Morgan Keegan to provide liquidity support to these funds. Both of these funds are proprietary open-end mutual funds managed by Morgan Keegan. A portion of the Regions Morgan Keegan Select High Income Fund investments were sold during 2007. During 2007, Regions recognized total losses of approximately $42.8 million on these investments in accordance with the equity method of accounting, the majority of which is included in other non-interest expense. These investments are recorded at market value in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet and totaled approximately $64.6 million at December 31, 2007.  

DEPOSITS  

Deposits are Regions’ primary source of funds, providing funding for 82 percent of average interest-earning assets in 2007 and 81 percent in 2006. Table 15 “Deposits” details year-over-year deposits on a period-ending basis. Deposits as of year-end 2007 decreased $6.5 billion, or six percent, compared to year-end 2006. The decrease in deposits was partially attributable to the merger-related branch divestitures, which occurred in the first quarter of 2007. Deposits totaling $2.7 billion, including $533 million of non-interest-bearing deposits and $2.2 billion of interest-bearing deposits, were sold in those branch divestitures. Excluding the impact of the divested deposits, year-end total deposits decreased four percent in 2007.  

49  

Table 15—Deposits  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions’ ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposit product offerings and how effectively the Company meets customers’ needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing well-designed products, a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and expanding the traditional branch network to offer convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high-quality telephone banking services and alternative product delivery channels, such as internet banking.  

Non-interest-bearing deposits, excluding divested deposits, declined by nine percent in 2007 as customers migrated to interest-bearing offerings, including Regions’ interest-bearing checking accounts, among other product types or investment alternatives. Divested non-interest-bearing deposits totaled approximately $533 million. Non-interest-bearing deposits accounted for approximately 19 percent of total deposits in 2007 as compared to 20 percent at year end 2006 (excluding divested deposits).  

Savings balances, excluding divested deposits, declined six percent to $3.6 billion, generally reflecting customers’ preference for higher-yielding accounts, including money market accounts.  

Interest-bearing transaction accounts remained relatively stable at December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006, due to the success of a marketing campaign aimed toward garnering free interest checking accounts during the year.  

Money market products are one of Regions’ most significant funding sources, accounting for 20 percent of total deposits in 2007. In 2007, the balance of money market accounts, excluding divested deposits, remained relatively stable compared to 2006, primarily due to Regions’ aggressive sales efforts related to this product. However, the relative attractiveness of alternative investment opportunities, including equity products and other potentially higher-yielding investments, partially offset growth of money market balances. In addition, deposits divested in the first quarter of 2007 in connection with the merger also contributed to the year-over-year decline.  

Included in time deposits are certificates of deposits and individual retirement accounts. The balance of time deposits decreased six percent in 2007, primarily due to divested deposits and a balance sheet management strategy that allowed higher-rate deposits to run off. These decreases were partially offset by customer demand for higher-rate deposits. Time deposits accounted for 31 percent of total deposits in 2007.  

Foreign deposits increased by $83 million during 2007, due to increased levels of wholesale Eurodollar funding, partially offset by lower demand for customer sweep accounts.  

50  

The sensitivity of Regions’ deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions’ average interest rate paid on interest-bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest-bearing deposits increased to 3.47 percent in 2007 from 3.14 percent in 2006. While the Federal Funds rate decreased 100 basis points during 2007 to 4.25 percent at year end, these decreases were not instituted until late in the year. Therefore, the impact on average rates was minimal as a lag period exists between the change in market rates and the repricing of the deposits. Table 16 “Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More” presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2007 and 2006.  

Table 16—Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS  

Regions’ short-term borrowings consist of federal funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, treasury, tax and loan notes, and other short-term borrowings. See Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are used to satisfy daily funding needs. Balances in these accounts can fluctuate significantly on a day-to-day basis. Federal funds purchased and security repurchase agreements totaled $8.8 billion at December 31, 2007 and $7.7 billion at December 31, 2006. The balance of federal funds purchased and security repurchase agreements, net of federal funds sold and security reverse repurchase agreements, increased $862.9 million in 2007, due primarily to a change in the funding mix between years.  

In October 2007, Regions began participating in the Federal Reserve’s Treasury, Tax and Loan Program. This program provides Regions with an alternative source of short-term funding and aids in maintaining the stability of the financial markets by reducing uncertainty about the supply of reserves in the banking system and simplifying the Federal Reserve’s implementation of monetary policy. As of December 31, 2007, Regions had $1.2 billion outstanding in the program.  

Short-term borrowings also include Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) short-term borrowings which, much like federal funds purchased, are used to satisfy short-term funding needs and can fluctuate between periods. These borrowings totaled $100.0 million at December 31, 2007 compared to $500.0 million outstanding at December 31, 2006. Also, at December 31, 2006, there were $250.0 million of short-term senior bank notes outstanding. These notes matured during 2007, leaving none outstanding as of December 31, 2007. In addition, Regions maintains a liability for its brokerage customer position through Morgan Keegan. This liability represents liquid funds in customers’ brokerage accounts. Balances due to brokerage customers totaled $505.5 million at December 31, 2007 as compared to $492.6 million at December 31, 2006. The short-sale liability, which is primarily maintained at Morgan Keegan in connection with trading obligations related to customer accounts, was $217.4 million at December 31, 2007 compared to $587.7 million at December 31, 2006. The balance of this account fluctuates frequently based on customer activity.  

51  

Other short-term borrowings increased by $166.6 million to $327.0 million at December 31, 2007. This balance includes certain lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintains with unaffiliated banks and derivative collateral. The lines of credit had maximum borrowings of $485.0 million at December 31, 2007.  

Table 17—Short-Term Borrowings  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

LONG-TERM BORROWINGS  

Regions’ long-term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, subordinated notes, senior notes and other long-term notes payable. See Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Membership in the FHLB system provides access to a source of lower-cost funds. Long-term FHLB advances totaled $3.8 billion at December 31, 2007, an increase of $1.4 billion compared to 2006.  

As of December 31, 2007, Regions had outstanding subordinated notes totaling $4.3 billion compared to $3.6 billion at December 31, 2006. During 2007, Regions issued a total of $800 million of subordinated notes. Regions’ subordinated notes consist of 12 issues with interest rates ranging from 4.85 percent to 7.75 percent.  

Senior debt and bank notes totaled $1.8 billion at December 31, 2007 compared to $1.9 billion at December 31, 2006, reflecting the maturity of notes as well as Regions’ issuance of $600 million of senior debt in 2007.  

During 2007, Regions Financing Trust II issued $700 million of institutional enhanced trust preferred securities, which are reflected as junior subordinated notes. Also in 2007, $225.8 million of Union Planters trust preferred securities were called and the related 8.20 percent junior subordinated notes were redeemed.  

Other long-term debt at December 31, 2007 and 2006, had weighted-average interest rates of 6.1 percent and 6.4 percent, respectively, and a weighted-average maturity of 6.9 years at December 31, 2007. Regions has $79.7 million included in other long-term debt in connection with a seller-lessee transaction with continuing involvement. See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

In May 2007, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC. This shelf registration can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and/or equity securities, and does not have a limit on the amount of securities that can be issued.  

52  

Regions’ long-term debt includes $633.1 million of subordinated notes that is callable in early 2008. The Company exercised the call option on $311.4 million of this debt on February 1, 2008, and anticipates exercising the call option on the remaining $321.7 million on March 15, 2008. See Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these transactions.  

RATINGS  

Table 18 “Credit Ratings” reflects the most recent debt ratings of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by Standard & Poor’s Corporation, Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch IBCA and Dominion Bond Rating Service.  

A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  

Table 18—Credit Ratings  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table reflects ratings as of December 31, 2007.  

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  

Stockholders’ equity decreased from $20.7 billion at year end 2006 to $19.8 billion at year end 2007. Net income and the net change in unrealized gains on securities available for sale added $1.3 billion and $166.1 million, respectively, to stockholders’ equity, which were more than offset by cash dividends declared and purchases of treasury stock which reduced equity by $1.0 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. In addition, Regions recorded the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles that reduced stockholders’ equity by $269.4 million related to the adoption of FIN 48 and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13-2, “Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leverage Lease Transaction” (“FSP 13-2”). The internal capital generation rate (net income less dividends as a percentage of average stockholders’ equity) was 1.1 percent in 2007 compared to 3.7 percent in 2006.  

During 2007, Regions repurchased 40.8 million shares at a total cost of $1.4 billion, leaving 23.1 million shares available for repurchase under the current repurchase authorization as of December 31, 2007. Despite the remaining authorization, management believes that in today’s uncertain credit environment, it is especially important to maintain a strong capital base. As such, Regions does not expect to repurchase a significant number of its shares in 2008.  

Regions’ ratio of stockholders’ equity to total assets was 14.05 percent at December 31, 2007 compared to 14.44 percent at December 31, 2006. This ratio decreased during 2007 due to share repurchase activity, which   

53  

 lowered stockholders’ equity. Regions’ ratio of tangible stockholders’ equity (stockholders’ equity less excess purchase price and other identifiable intangibles) to total tangible assets was 5.88 percent at December 31, 2007 compared to 6.53 percent at December 31, 2006, mainly reflecting the repurchase activity discussed above.  

Regions attempts to balance the return to stockholders through the payment of dividends with the need to maintain strong capital levels for future growth opportunities. In 2007, on a per share basis, Regions returned 82 percent of earnings to its stockholders in the form of dividends. Total dividends paid by Regions in 2007 were $1.0 billion, or $1.46 per share, an increase of four percent from the $1.40 per share paid in 2006.  

In October 2007, the Board of Directors declared a six percent increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $0.36 to $0.38 per share, marking the 37th consecutive year that Regions has increased quarterly cash dividends.  

BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS  

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by banking regulatory agencies. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure.  

The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure and interest rate risks, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk-weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital.  

The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets is eight percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, less excess purchase price and certain other intangibles (“Tier 1 Capital”). The remainder (“Tier 2 Capital”) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital is “total risk-based capital.”  

The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk-based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of three percent of Tier 1 Capital to average assets less excess purchase price (the “Leverage Ratio”). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage Ratio of one percent to two percent above the minimum three percent level. Table 19 “Capital Ratios” summarizes Regions’ capital ratios at December 31, 2007, which substantially exceeded all regulatory requirements.  

Total capital at Regions Bank also has an important effect on the amount of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance premiums paid. Institutions not considered well capitalized can be subject to higher rates for FDIC insurance. Other requirements are needed in addition to total capital in order for a company to be considered well capitalized. See Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2007, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized.  

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and the FDIC’s revised premium assessment program, every FDIC-insured institution will pay some level of deposit insurance assessments regardless of the level of designated reserve ratio. Regions Bank had a FICO assessment of $10.7 million in FDIC deposit premiums in 2007 and $7.1 million in 2006, both of which were expensed in their respective years.  

54  

The FDIC also has finalized rules providing for a one-time credit to each eligible insured depository institution based on the assessment base of the institution on December 31, 1996. Regions Bank qualified for a credit of approximately $110 million, of which $34 million was applied in 2007, leaving a remaining balance at year end of $76 million to be applied over the next two years, based on the current assessment rate.  

Table 19—Capital Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Includes $60,469 and $53,285 in 2007 and 2006, respectively, associated with reserves recorded in other liabilities for off-balance sheet credit exposures.  

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

Regions’ primary off-balance sheet arrangements are financial instruments issued in connection with lending activities. These arrangements include commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit and commercial letters of credit. See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion, including details of the contractual amounts outstanding at December 31, 2007.  

Regions sells commercial loans to third-party, multi-issuer conduits, and Regions retains servicing responsibilities. As part of the sale and securitization of commercial loans to conduits, Regions provides credit enhancements to these conduits by providing standby letters of credit, which create exposure to credit risk to the extent of the letters of credit. At December 31, 2007, Regions had $50.0 million of letters of credit supporting the conduit sales. This credit risk is reviewed quarterly and a reserve for loss exposure is maintained in other liabilities on the balance sheet.  

Regions also provides liquidity lines of credit to support the issuance of commercial paper under 364-day loan commitments. These liquidity lines can be drawn upon in the event of a commercial paper market disruption   

55  

 or other factors, which could prevent the asset-backed commercial paper issuers from being able to issue commercial paper. Regions had $41.5 million of commercial loans in the conduits on December 31, 2007. For additional discussion, see the “Liquidity” section of this report.  

Regions also has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities in the aggregate of $700 million at the time of issuance. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity with equity typically comprising 30 percent to 50 percent of the total partnership capital. Regions’ maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2007 was $457.3 million, which included $156.8 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships.  

EFFECTS OF INFLATION  

The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity-to-assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation.  

Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions’ ability to react to changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income.  

RISK MANAGEMENT  

Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are interest rate and associated prepayment risk, liquidity risk, market and other brokerage-related risk associated with Morgan Keegan and credit risk. Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or securities earlier than at their stated maturities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions’ ability to fund present and future obligations. The Company, through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market-related risks associated with its brokerage and market-related activities. Credit risk represents the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans.  

External factors beyond management’s control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Regions’ Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process and assures the adequacy of documentation. The results of these reviews are reported regularly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Company also has a Risk Committee that assists the Board of Directors in overseeing the Company’s policies, procedures and practices relating to market, regulatory and operational risk.  

Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report.  

INTEREST RATE RISK   

Regions’ primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To   

56  

 quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short-term indicator of Regions’ interest rate risk.  

Sensitivity Measurement—Financial simulation models are Regions’ primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions’ balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate-related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing administered rate accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. Financial derivative instruments are used in hedging the values of selected assets and liabilities against changes in interest rates. The effect of these hedges is included in the simulations of net interest income.  

The primary objective of Asset/Liability Management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. A standard set of alternate interest rate scenarios is compared to the results of the base case scenario to determine the extent of potential fluctuations and to establish exposure limits. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus and minus 100 and 200 basis points. In addition, Regions includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. The gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six-month period.  

Exposure to Interest Rate Movements—As of December 31, 2007, Regions was moderately asset sensitive in positioning to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts of plus or minus 100 or 200 basis points. Table 20 “Interest Rate Sensitivity” demonstrates the estimated potential effects that gradual (over six months beginning at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively) and instantaneous parallel interest rate shifts would have on Regions’ net interest income.  

In January 2008, the Federal Reserve lowered the federal funds rate by 125 basis points in response to mounting concerns of a recession. As indicated above, Regions was moderately asset sensitive at year end 2007 and was in a similar position at the time of the Federal Reserve actions. As a result, Regions expects to experience a reduction in net interest income, which can be gauged by referring to Table 20 “Interest Rate Sensitivity.”  

57  

Table 20—Interest Rate Sensitivity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Derivatives—Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (“ALCO”), in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to hedge the risks associated with customer derivatives.  

Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed-upon price. Foreign exchange forwards are contractual agreements to receive or deliver a foreign currency at an agreed-upon future date and price.  

Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed-rate funding position to a variable-rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable-rate loan portfolio to fixed-rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held-for-sale portfolio.  

Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolio by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non-dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and/or posted to that counterparty. The “Credit Risk” section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk.  

Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Positions with similar   

58  

 characteristics are used to hedge the market risk and minimize income statement volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are entered into the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of income.  

The objective of Regions’ hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions’ execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. As a result, Regions’ hedging strategies may be ineffective in mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings. See to Note 20 “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities” to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions’ year end derivatives positions.  

PREPAYMENT RISK  

Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage-related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower-yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions’ interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Regions’ greatest exposure to prepayment risks primarily rests in its mortgage-backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed-rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non-interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management.  

LIQUIDITY RISK  

Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions’ ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Table 21 “Contractual Obligations” summarizes Regions’ contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2007. Regions intends to fund contractual obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to uncertain tax positions (see Note 19 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements), obligations related to its ownership interest in Visa USA Inc. (see discussion of other non-interest expense found earlier in this report), and potential litigation contingencies (see Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements).  

Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders’ equity. Regions’ goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting its cash flow needs. This is accomplished through the active management of both the asset and liability sides of the balance sheet. The liquidity position of Regions is monitored on a daily basis by Regions’ Treasury Division. In addition, the ALCO, which consists of members of Regions’ senior management team, reviews liquidity on a regular basis and approves any changes in strategy that are necessary as a result of asset/liability composition or anticipated cash flow changes. Management also compares Regions’ liquidity position to established corporate liquidity policies on a monthly basis.  

59  

Table 21—Contractual Obligations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The securities portfolio is one of Regions’ primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Table 12 “Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities”). Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 10 “Selected Loan Maturities”). At December 31, 2007, commercial loans, real estate construction loans and certain real estate mortgage loans with an aggregate balance of $21.7 billion, as well as securities of $674.6 million, were due to mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Historically, Regions’ high levels of earnings have also contributed to cash flow. In addition, liquidity needs can be met by the purchase of funds in state and national money markets. Regions’ liquidity also continues to be enhanced by a relatively stable deposit base.  

As reflected in the consolidated statements of cash flows, operating activities provided significant levels of funds in 2007, due primarily to high levels of net income. Investing activities were a net provider of funds in 2007, primarily due to proceeds from the sale and maturity of securities available for sale and the proceeds from sales of student loans, partially offset by the purchase of securities available for sale and increased lending activity. Financing activities were a net user of funds in 2007, reflecting a decrease in deposits, payments made on borrowings and repurchase of Regions stock in 2007.  

Regions’ financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. The maximum amount that could be borrowed from the FHLB under the current borrowing agreement is approximately $28.2 billion (see Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements). However, the actual borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. At December 31, 2007, approximately $6.3 billion of first mortgage loans on one- to four-family dwellings held by Regions Bank were pledged to secure borrowings from the FHLB. Investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $200.8 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2007. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. As of December 31, 2007, Regions’ borrowings from the FHLB totaled $3.9 billion.  

As mentioned previously in the “Long-Term Borrowings” section of this report, in May 2007, Regions filed a shelf registration statement. The shelf allows for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of various debt and/or equity securities.  

In addition, Regions Bank has the requisite agreements in place to issue and sell up to $4.5 billion of bank notes to institutional investors through placement agents as of December 31, 2007. The issuance of additional bank notes could provide a significant source of liquidity and funding to meet future needs.  

Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

60  

Regions can borrow a maximum amount of approximately $12.9 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank. See Note 12 “Long-term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further detail.  

As an additional source of liquidity, Regions periodically sells commercial loans to qualifying special purpose entities known as conduits in securitization transactions. The conduits are financed by the issuance of securities to asset-backed commercial paper issuers. The transactions are accounted for as sales and allow Regions to utilize its asset capacity and capital for higher-yielding interest-earning assets, while continuing to manage customer relationships. At December 31, 2007, the outstanding balance of commercial loans sold to conduits was $41.5 million compared to $431.7 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to unfavorable conditions in the asset-backed commercial paper market which developed in the latter half of 2007, leading management to reduce exposure in this area. While the conduit transactions are a source of funding, these off-balance sheet arrangements have the potential to require Regions to provide funding to the conduits in the event of a liquidity shortage.  

If Regions is unable to maintain or renew its financing arrangements, obtain funding in the capital markets on reasonable terms or experiences a decrease in earnings, it may be required to slow or reduce the growth of the assets on its balance sheet, which may adversely impact its earnings.  

MARKET AND OTHER BROKERAGE-RELATED RISK  

Morgan Keegan’s business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk.  

Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax-exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and guaranteed securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers’ orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to “make a market” in these securities. Morgan Keegan’s trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiary’s capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. The establishment of short positions exposes Morgan Keegan to off-balance sheet risk in the event that prices increase, as it may be obligated to cover such positions at a loss. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to these instruments by entering into offsetting or other positions in a variety of financial instruments.  

In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. At December 31, 2007, the contract amounts of futures contracts were $4.1 million to purchase and $50.9 million to sell U.S. Government and municipal securities. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions’ consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions’ exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility.  

Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to-be-announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange-traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties.  

61  

Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest-sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories, recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are marked-to-market and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegan’s securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegan’s equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non-performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegan’s business.  

To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (“VAR”) model to estimate the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time-to-liquidate time horizon. The end-of-period VAR was approximately $1.8 million as of December 31, 2007 and approximately $910,000 as of December 31, 2006. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2007 was $6.8 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $1.2 million.  

CREDIT RISK  

Regions’ objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high-quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle.  

Management Process  

Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and commercial real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk-rated, approved and monitored.  

Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi-annually or more frequently as needed.  

To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions’ Special Asset Group, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures.  

62  

Separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups exist, which report to the Chief Credit Officer. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios.  

Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product and business unit, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk-rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended.  

Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio  

In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, it is appropriate to consider the current U.S. economic environment and that of Regions’ primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the three major categories of loans—commercial, real estate and consumer.  

Economic Environment in Regions’ Banking Markets  

The largest factor influencing the credit performance of Regions’ loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The U.S. economy slowed in 2007, as evidenced by declining growth in Gross Domestic Product and a notably weaker housing market.  

Housing weakened considerably during 2007 and the risk of recession is significantly increasing due to the negative impact housing is having on the overall economy. This weakness prompted the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates during the second half of 2007 and into 2008, including the 125-basis-points cuts in January 2008, in order to add liquidity to the markets. Within the Regions footprint, the housing slowdown has been relatively severe in parts of Florida, and Atlanta, Georgia has also experienced pockets of overbuilding. Both areas had experienced above-average price increases and construction activity in recent years. The slowdown is manifesting itself through decreases in housing permits, starts and sales, falling prices and excess unsold inventory on the market. Management anticipates that the housing industry will remain weak throughout 2008.  

While the conditions outside of the residential real estate industry remain generally sound, there has been a decrease in job creation and increases in unemployment in states within our footprint. Industries reliant upon a strong housing market are being negatively affected, including title and mortgage companies, and manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers of building supplies, home furnishings and appliances.  

The economic environment became more challenging during 2007, particularly for borrowers directly or indirectly tied to the housing industry. Other indicators of economic strains include oil prices that have continued to increase, consumer debt levels remaining at record levels and the consumer savings rate being negative. Additionally, the volumes of adjustable-rate mortgages subject to rate reset will be at record levels over the next 24 to 36 months on a national basis. These factors will only add more strain to consumers.  

Portfolio Characteristics  

Regions has a well-diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2007, commercial loans represented 22 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, real estate mortgage loans (including residential one- to four-family) represented 41 percent, real estate construction loans were 15 percent and consumer loans comprised the remaining 22 percent.  

63  

Commercial—The commercial loan portfolio totaled $20.9 billion at year end 2007 and primarily consists of loans to middle market commercial customers doing business in Regions’ geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and usually secured with the assets of the company and/or the personal guarantee of the business owners.  

Net charge-offs on commercial loans were 0.31 percent of average commercial loans in 2007 compared to 0.22 percent in 2006. This increase was due in large part to the performance of a small number of specific credits.  

Real Estate Mortgage—The real estate mortgage portfolio totaled $39.3 billion at year end 2007 and includes various loan types. A large portion is owner-occupied loans to businesses for long-term financing of land and buildings. These loans are generally underwritten and managed in the commercial business line. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner-occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers.  

Another large component of real estate mortgage loans is loans to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. While losses on these types of real estate mortgage loans have been very low for a number of years, they did rise in 2007 in reaction to a slowing economy and its effects on demand for real estate properties. Regions expects that losses on these types of loans will continue to rise during 2008.  

Also included in the real estate mortgage loan category are loans on one- to four-family residential properties, which are secured principally by single-family residences. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions’ market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values, and thus, are difficult to predict. During 2007, losses on single-family residences were relatively low. However, Regions expects losses on loans of this type to increase moderately during 2008, driven by the general housing slowdown throughout the U.S., including areas within Regions’ operating footprint.  

Real Estate Construction—These loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A construction loan may also be made to a commercial business for the development of land or buildings where the repayment is usually derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. As of December 31, 2007, real estate construction loans were $14.0 billion or 15 percent of Regions’ total loan portfolio. Most construction credits were to finance shopping centers, apartment complexes, condominiums, commercial buildings and residential property development. These loans are generally vulnerable to economic downturns in periods of high interest rates and declines in property values.  

Included in the real estate construction loan category are loans to residential homebuilders. The chart and table below provide details related to this residential homebuilder portfolio, which totaled $7.2 billion at December 31, 2007. Further details about this portfolio are also provided in the Balance Sheet Analysis section, found earlier in this report. Credit quality of the construction portfolio is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. While losses within this portfolio have been low historically, they increased in 2007 largely as a result of the stresses described above. These stresses are expected to continue throughout 2008 and, accordingly, losses on real estate construction loans are expected to continue to rise as well.  

64  

RESIDENTIAL HOMEBUILDER PORTFOLIO  

(In millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) East consists of Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina  

 (2) Midwest consists of Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Missouri and Texas  

 (3) Southwest consists of Louisiana and Mississippi  

Home Equity Lending—This portfolio contains home equity loans and lines of credit totaling $15.0 billion as of year end 2007. This entire portfolio was originated through Regions’ and its acquired banks’ branch network, with none having been obtained through brokers or other third parties. Losses on home equity lending have begun moving from historic lows to more normalized levels. As a percentage of outstanding home equity loans and lines, losses decreased in 2007 to 0.27 percent from 0.34 percent in 2006. The Company had credit insurance covering approximately $533 million of higher-risk lines as of year end. These lines were generally in a second lien position with loan-to-values above 90 percent.  

Indirect and Other Consumer Lending—Loans within the indirect portfolio, which consist mainly of automobile, marine and recreational vehicle loans originated through third-party business relationships, totaled $3.9 billion as of year end 2007. Other consumer loans, which consist primarily of borrowings for home improvements, student loans, automobiles, overdrafts and other personal household purposes, totaled $2.2 billion as of year end.  

Losses on home equity and other consumer lending began to increase in the latter half of 2007 due to deterioration of general economic conditions, including unfavorable changes in housing demand and property values. These portfolios will continue to be impacted by these factors, which Regions believes will remain pressured in 2008 and, therefore, the Company expects losses to rise modestly during 2008.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses represents management’s estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Management’s assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on the combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit   

65  

 losses in accordance with regulatory guidance, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114, “Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan” (“FAS 114”) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” (“FAS 5”). Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments.  

At December 31, 2007, the allowance for credit losses totaled $1.4 billion or 1.45 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.1 billion or 1.17 percent at year end 2006. The increase in the allowance for credit loss ratio reflects management’s estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which management believes increased significantly during the fourth quarter of 2007 due to a slowing economy and a weakening housing market. The increase in non-performing assets was a key determining factor in the assessment of inherent losses and, as a result, was an important factor in determining the allowance level. Non-performing assets increased from $379.1 million at December 31, 2006 to $864.1 million at December 31, 2007, with $275.7 million of the increase occurring during the fourth quarter of 2007. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s total, are included in Table 22 “Allowance for Credit Losses.” Management expects the allowance for credit loss ratio to vary over time due to changes in economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses.  

Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses include, but are not limited to: (1) detailed reviews of individual loans; (2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge-offs for the various portfolio segments evaluated; (3) the level of the allowance for credit losses in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; (4) levels and trends in non-performing and past due loans; (5) collateral values of properties securing loans; (6) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; and (7) management’s analysis of economic conditions.  

Various departments, including Credit Review, Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management, and Special Assets, are involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits.  

For the majority of the loan portfolio, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and management’s judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance.  

Impaired loans are defined as commercial and commercial real estate loans (excluding leases) on non-accrual status. All loans that management has identified as impaired, and that are greater than $2.5 million, are evaluated individually for purposes of determining appropriate allowances for credit losses. This process results in what are internally called FAS 114 Specific Reserves. In the Specific Reserve process, loans are valued based on the most suitable valuation technique as defined in FAS 114 (see Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements). If current valuations are lower than the current book balance of the credit, the negative differences are reviewed for possible charge-off. In instances where management determines that a charge-off is not appropriate, a FAS 114 Specific Reserve is established for the individual loan in question. That Specific Reserve is incorporated as a part of the overall allowance for credit losses. At December 31, 2007, loans qualifying for FAS 114 consideration totaled $660.4 million with Specific Reserves of $58.7 million. This compares to total loans qualifying for FAS 114 of $237.5 million with Specific Reserves of $17.6 million at December 31, 2006.  

Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the   

66  

 use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates.  

Table 22—Allowance for Credit Losses   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Regions transferred the portion of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded credit commitments to other liabilities.  

67  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NON-PERFORMING ASSETS  

Non-performing assets consists of loans on non-accrual status and foreclosed properties. Loans are placed on non-accrual status when management has determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest unless well-secured and in the process of collection. Uncollected interest income accrued on non-accrual loans in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on loans placed on non-accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses.  

At December 31, 2007, non-performing assets totaled $864.1 million, or 0.90 percent of ending loans, compared to $379.1 million, or 0.40 percent of loans, at December 31, 2006. The increase in non-performing assets at December 31, 2007, was largely influenced by growth in non-performing loans in the fourth quarter of 2007 due to the residential homebuilder portfolio as previously discussed. Sales of non-accrual loans during the second half of 2007 totaling $74.2 million partially offset the otherwise higher level of non-performing assets. Associated with the non-performing loans sale, Regions recorded an additional $11 million of loan loss provision, which coupled with $7 million of existing reserves on these loans resulted in an $18 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses in the third quarter of 2007. Changes in economic conditions and real estate demand in Regions’ markets are likely to further increase the level of non-performing assets during 2008.  

Foreclosed properties, a subset of non-performing assets, totaled $120.5 million at December 31, 2007 and $72.7 million at December 31, 2006. Regions’ foreclosed properties are composed primarily of a number of small to medium-size properties that are diversified geographically throughout the franchise. Foreclosed properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less the estimated cost to sell. Table 23 “Non-Performing Assets” presents information on non-performing loans and foreclosed properties acquired in settlement of loans.  

68  

Table 23—Non-Performing Assets  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due  

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Regions had approximately $221.5 million and $13.6 million, respectively, of potential problem commercial loans that were not included in non-accrual loans or in the accruing loans 90 days past due categories at year end, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. At December 31, 2007, none of the $13.6 million from 2006 remained categorized as potential problem loans. These loans either migrated to non-performing status or were no longer considered potential problem loans.  

As a result of the unfavorable trends in credit quality previously described, including the expectation of rising non-performing asset levels driven largely by deterioration in the Company’s residential homebuilder portfolio, management expects that net loan charge-offs could rise to 0.55 percent to 0.65 percent of net loans for the year ended December 31, 2008. This forecast was made as of year end 2007 and actual results could vary from this forecast, which is subject to changes in assumed underlying economic conditions and other influential factors.  

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS  

Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. As a bank holding company, Regions is subject to the internal control reporting and attestation requirements of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act and, therefore, is very familiar with the process of maintaining and evaluating internal controls over financial reporting. Regions’ process starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas; how those risks are controlled or mitigated; and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of management’s testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently.  

Regions also has established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the SEC are generally designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  

Regions’ Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In   

69  

 addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, operations and technology, as well as from the core business segments. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, and Proxy filings, and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from all core business segments, accounting, legal, risk management, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as evidence of the Company’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10-K and 10-Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.  

As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions’ periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary.  

Regions’ common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and, therefore, Regions is required to comply with NYSE corporate governance listing standards. During 2007, Regions submitted to the NYSE the CEO Certification required under Section 303A of the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. In addition, the CEO and CFO Certifications that are required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2, respectively.  

COMPARISON OF 2006 WITH 2005  

Earnings in 2006 benefited from the acquisition of AmSouth, which closed on November 4, 2006, resulting in approximately two additional months of higher earnings as compared to 2005. Comparisons of 2006 to 2005 are therefore significantly impacted by the merger. Other than the merger-related increase, the primary drivers of 2006 earnings were Regions’ net interest income contribution, record performance at Morgan Keegan, overall expense control and lower credit costs.  

Net income from continuing operations in 2006 was $1.4 billion, or $2.71 per diluted share, representing a 31 percent increase from 2005 diluted earnings per share of $2.07. Net income in 2006 includes after-tax merger charges (related to the AmSouth merger) of $60.3 million, or 12 cents per diluted share, compared to 2005 after-tax merger charges (related to the Union Planters merger) of $109.7 million, or 23 cents per diluted share. Return on average stockholders’ equity was 10.94 percent for 2006 as compared to 9.37 percent for 2005, while return on average assets was 1.41 percent for 2006, up from the 2005 level of 1.18 percent.  

During 2006, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates four times (100 basis points). The yield curve became inverted due to short-term rates increasing without similar increases in long-term rates. However, Regions was able to counter this effect with prudent loan and deposit pricing and balance sheet positioning. As a result, increases in Regions’ interest-earning asset yields outpaced increases in interest-bearing liability costs, leading to an increased interest rate spread compared to 2005. This increase in spread helped bolster the net interest margin, which increased from 3.91 percent in 2005 to 4.17 percent in 2006. Over that same period, net interest income increased 19 percent to $3.3 billion in 2006 from $2.8 billion in 2005. Growth in average interest-earning assets and the addition of AmSouth operations also contributed to the increase in net interest income.  

The following discussion of non-interest income and expense is from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income.  

Non-interest income (excluding securities gains/losses) totaled $2.0 billion, or 37 percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable-equivalent basis) in 2006, compared to $1.7 billion, or 37 percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable-equivalent basis) in 2005.  

70  

Service charges on deposit accounts increased 30 percent to $722.0 million, due primarily to an increase in the number of total deposit accounts, as well as a revised fee schedule and the addition of new accounts in connection with the AmSouth merger.  

Brokerage and investment banking revenues increased in 2006 to $669.4 million, compared to $548.7 million in 2005. The increase was attributable to strong private client streams, strong equity capital markets, solid fixed-income capital markets banking activity, and a continuing focus on asset management and investment advisory revenues during 2006.  

In addition, trust income increased 24 percent to $158.2 million in 2006 versus $127.8 million in 2005 due to higher asset values, increased fees and additional activity from trust accounts added in connection with the AmSouth merger.  

In 2006, mortgage income decreased 11 percent to $178.7 million compared to $201.5 million in 2005, the result of rising interest rates and decreased loan demand, partially offset by the addition of AmSouth activity in the last two months of the year.  

Regions reported net gains of $8.1 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2006, compared to net losses of $18.9 million in 2005. These gains and losses were primarily related to the sale of agency and mortgage-related securities in conjunction with balance sheet management activities.  

Other income increased seven percent to $293.3 million in 2006, primarily due to increases in commercial credit fee income and insurance commissions and fees. Commercial credit fee income increased 31 percent due to continued improvements in the sales process and a favorable yield curve environment. Insurance commissions and fees increased seven percent to $85.5 million due to revenue from commissions related to new business production, acquisitions, and increased cross-selling efforts with Regions’ banking and brokerage segments.  

Non-interest expense totaled $3.2 billion in 2006 compared to $2.9 billion in 2005. Included in non-interest expense are merger-related charges of $88.7 million in 2006 and $168.8 million in 2005. The 2006 overall expense level was impacted by approximately two additional months of former AmSouth operations.  

Salaries and employee benefits increased 11 percent to $1.9 billion in 2006 compared to $1.7 billion in 2005, primarily due to the November 2006 addition of approximately 12,000 legacy AmSouth associates, as well as normal annual compensation adjustments and higher incentive payouts. Excluding $65.7 million of merger-related charges in 2006 and $73.6 million in 2005, salaries and benefits increased 12 percent in 2006. See Table 8 “Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP reconciliation)” for further details.  

Net occupancy expense increased 16 percent to $254.6 million in 2006, primarily attributable to expenses added in connection with the AmSouth acquisition, new and acquired branch offices and rising price levels. Furniture and equipment expense in 2006 totaled $157.9 million, a 23 percent increase over the prior year. In addition to the higher merger-related expense base, furniture and equipment associated with the addition of new branch offices was also a factor.  

Other non-interest expense increased two percent to $931.7 million in 2006 primarily due to a $48.0 million increase in impairment of mortgage servicing rights, merger-related costs of $19.1 million and an increase in amortization of core deposit intangibles (primarily related to intangibles added in the AmSouth merger) of $17.5 million. Partially offsetting these increases were reductions in legal and other professional fees and amortization of mortgage servicing rights.  

Regions’ provision for income taxes from continuing operations in 2006 increased $223.2 million compared to 2005 due to an overall increase in consolidated pre-tax income, partially driven by the AmSouth merger. The effective tax rate from continuing operations was 31.1 percent in 2006 compared to 29.1 percent in 2005. The increase is due to the merger with AmSouth, coupled with increased consolidated net income.  

71  

Non-performing assets decreased $27.7 million or seven percent to $379.1 million in 2006 from $406.9 million in 2005. Although affected by the addition of merger-related non-performing assets, generally improving credit quality and the sale of $85.4 million in non-accrual loans during the year resulted in an overall decline in non-performing assets. Non-performing assets as a percentage of loans plus foreclosed properties was 0.40 percent as of December 31, 2006, compared to 0.70 percent at year end 2005.  

Net charge-offs increased $3.8 million, or three percent, in 2006 due to the merger with AmSouth, offset somewhat by improving credit quality. However, aided by a larger loan portfolio in 2006 compared to 2005, the net-charge-off ratio improved one basis point from 0.23 percent to 0.22 percent. The provision for loan losses from continuing operations decreased $24.4 million to $142.4 million, reflecting the improved credit environment during 2006. The allowance for credit losses increased $324.3 million to $1.1 billion or 1.17 percent of total loans in 2006, compared to $783.5 million or 1.34 percent at year end 2005. The increase in the allowance for credit losses was driven by the larger loan portfolio, a result of loans added in the AmSouth acquisition. The decrease in the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio was primarily due to the acquisition of AmSouth, which had a ratio lower than that of Regions.  

72  

Table 24—Quarterly Results of Operations   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Note: Quarterly amounts may not add to year-to-date amounts due to rounding.  

 (1) Certain per share amounts may not appear to reconcile due to rounding.  

73  

  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data