Item 1A. Risk Factors   

Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by Regions, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on Regions. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business and our results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause Regions’ actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Regions.  

Our success will be dependent on our ability to profitably manage our growth.  

We expect to continue to expand our franchise through continued branch expansion. Our ability to manage our growth successfully will depend on our ability to maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms. Although we have been able to achieve significant growth, our expansion strategy could have an adverse impact on our profitability in the short term due to the operating and other non-interest expenses associated with growth and branching. The opening of new branches requires an investment of funds that will not generate profits for a period of time, if at all.  

We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.  

We may need to raise additional capital in the future to support growth or for other capital needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth could be limited.  

Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance.  

Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities.  

13  

Our current one-year interest rate sensitivity position is moderately asset sensitive, meaning that a gradual increase in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon does not have a pronounced impact on net interest income over a twelve-month forecast horizon. However, like most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” and Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” of this Form 10-K.  

Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse impact on our profitability.  

The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions.  

Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities.  

The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations.  

Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability.  

The results of operations of Regions are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open-market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, particularly in light of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and the current military operations in the Middle East, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the United States government and other governments in responding to such terrorist attacks or the military operations in the Middle East may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects.  

If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected.  

As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporations and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets.  

14  

We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions.  

Further disruptions in the residential real estate market could adversely affect our performance.  

As of December 31, 2007, residential homebuilder loans represented approximately 8% of our total loan portfolio. This portfolio came under stress in the fourth quarter of 2007 and, due to its weakening credit quality, we increased our loan loss provision and our total allowance for credit losses. In addition, we have implemented several measures to support the management of the residential homebuilder loan portfolio, including reassignment of experienced, key relationship managers to focus on work-out strategies for distressed borrowers.  

While we expect that these actions will help mitigate the overall effects of the credit down cycle, the weakness in the homebuilder portfolio is expected to continue well into 2008. Accordingly, it is anticipated that our non-performing asset and charge-off levels will continue to increase in 2008.  

Further, the effects of recent mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing decrease in residential real estate market prices and demand, could result in further price reductions in home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the residential real estate and construction loans that we hold, as well as loan originations and gains on sale of real estate and construction loans.  

Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated.  

Regions’ success depends to a certain extent on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by Regions Bank in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on Regions Bank’s commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of these geographical areas in general or any one or more of these local markets could negatively impact the financial results of Regions’ banking operations and have a negative effect on its profitability.  

Our ability to achieve the benefits expected from the merger with AmSouth Bancorporation.  

Regions’ ability to achieve the benefits of the merger with AmSouth depend on a variety of factors, including:  

   •    Regions’ ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements with respect to the acquired operations, or lower than expected revenues from continuing operations;  

   •    The assimilation of the combined companies’ corporate cultures;  

   •    the continued growth of the markets that the acquired entities serve, consistent with recent historical experience;  

   •    difficulties related to the integration of the businesses.  

15  

Hurricanes and other weather-related events could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on the results of operations.  

A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the loss of market that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of any collateral held by us. Some of the states in which we operate are experiencing an extreme drought. The effects of the drought are difficult to predict, but could have an adverse effect on many areas of the economy.  

We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands.  

The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations.  

Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success.  

Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business.  

We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations.  

The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state law. We are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and the Superintendent of Banking of the State of Alabama. These regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance fund, and not our shareholders. These regulations govern matters ranging from the regulation of certain debt obligations, changes in the control of bank holding companies and state-chartered banks, and the maintenance of adequate capital to the general business operations and financial condition of Regions Bank, including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, to the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law. Additionally, certain subsidiaries of Regions and Regions Bank, such as Morgan Keegan, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, FINRA and state securities and insurance regulators. We are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, Regions Bank and our subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that such modifications or new laws will not adversely affect us. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under Item 1 “Business—Supervision and Regulation” of this Form 10-K.  

16  

Future issuances of additional securities could result in dilution of your ownership.  

We may determine from time to time to issue additional securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities will dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders.  

Anti-takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value.  

Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors’ approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including our shares. Banking agencies review the acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The banking agencies have 60 days to act on the notice, and take into account several factors, including the resources of the acquiror and the antitrust effects of the acquisition. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquiror.  

Securities issued by Regions, including our common stock, are not FDIC insured.  

Securities issued by Regions, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the DIF, or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal.  

  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

None.  

  Item 2. Properties