Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as indicative of future operations. 

Executive Summary 

Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation’s largest publicly-traded owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had interests in 1,950 properties, totaling approximately 182.2 million square feet of GLA located in 45 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Peru.  

The Company is self-administered and self-managed through present management, which has owned and managed neighborhood and community shopping centers for over 50 years. The executive officers are engaged in the day-to-day management and operation of real estate exclusively with the Company, with nearly all operating functions, including leasing, asset management, maintenance, construction, legal, finance and accounting, administered by the Company. 

In connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the "RMA"), which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is permitted to participate in activities which it was precluded from previously in order to maintain its qualification as a Real Estate Investment Trust ("REIT"), so long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Code, subject to certain limitations. As such, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiaries, is engaged in various retail real estate-related opportunities including (i) merchant building, through its wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which are primarily engaged in the ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) retail real estate advisory and disposition services, which primarily focus on leasing and disposition strategies of retail real estate controlled by both healthy and dist ressed and/or bankrupt retailers and (iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax deferred exchange transactions. The Company will consider other investments through taxable REIT subsidiaries should suitable opportunities arise. 

In addition, the Company continues to capitalize on its established expertise in retail real estate by establishing other ventures in which the Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides management, leasing and operational support for those properties. The Company also provides preferred equity capital for real estate entrepreneurs and provides real estate capital and advisory services to both healthy and distressed retailers. The Company has made selective investments in secondary market opportunities where a security or other investment was, in management’s judgment, priced below the value of the underlying assets. However, these investments are subject to volatility within the equity and debt markets. 

The Company’s strategy is to maintain a strong balance sheet providing it the necessary flexibility to invest opportunistically and selectively, primarily focusing on neighborhood and community shopping centers. 

The Company continually evaluates its debt maturities, and, based on management’s current assessment, believes it has viable financing and refinancing alternatives that will not materially adversely impact its expected financial results. Although the credit environment has become much more constrained since the third quarter of 2008, the Company continues to pursue opportunities with large commercial U.S. and global banks, select life insurance companies and certain regional and local banks. The Company has noticed a trend that the approval process from lenders has slowed, while pricing and loan-to-value ratios remain dependent on specific deal terms, in general, spreads are higher and loan-to-values are lower, but the lenders are continuing to complete financing agreements. Moreover, the Company continues to assess 2009 and beyond to ensure the Company is prepared if the current credit market dislocation continues.  

The retail shopping sector has been negatively affected by recent economic conditions. These conditions have forced some weaker retailers, in some cases, to declare bankruptcy and/or close stores. Certain retailers have announced store closings even though they have not filed for bankruptcy protection. However, any of these particular store closings affecting the Company often represent a small percentage of the Company’s overall gross leasable area and the Company does not currently expect store closings to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s overall performance.  

The decline in market conditions has also had a negative effect on real estate transactional activity as it relates to the acquisition and sale of real estate assets. The Company believes that the lack of real estate transactions will continue throughout 2009 which will curtail the Company’s growth in the near term. 

45 

Critical Accounting Policies 

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest, including where the Company has been determined to be a primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity in accordance with the provisions and guidance of Interpretation No. 46 (R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, or meets certain criteria of a sole general partner or managing member in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue 04-5, Investor’s Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners have Certain Rights ("EITF 04-5"). The Company applies these provisions to each of its joint venture investments to determine whether the cost, equity or consolidation method of accounting is appropriate. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting p rinciples generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. In preparing these financial statements, management has made its best estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. These estimates are based on, but not limited to, historical results, industry standards and current economic conditions, giving due consideration to materiality. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to revenue recognition and the recoverability of trade accounts receivable, depreciable lives, valuation of real estate and intangible assets and liabilities, valuation of joint venture investments, marketable securities and other investments and realizability of deferred tax assets. Application of these assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties, and, as a result, act ual results could materially differ from these estimates. 

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of its real estate properties, investments in joint ventures, marketable securities and other investments. The Company’s reported net income is directly affected by management’s estimate of impairments and/or valuation allowances. 

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable 

Base rental revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Certain of these leases also provide for percentage rents based upon the level of sales achieved by the lessee. These percentage rents are recorded once the required sales level is achieved. Operating expense reimbursements are recognized as earned. Rental income may also include payments received in connection with lease termination agreements. In addition, leases typically provide for reimbursement to the Company of common area maintenance, real estate taxes and other operating expenses.  

The Company makes estimates of the uncollectability of its accounts receivable related to base rents, expense reimbursements and other revenues. The Company analyzes accounts receivable and historical bad debt levels, customer credit-worthiness and current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. In addition, tenants in bankruptcy are analyzed and estimates are made in connection with the expected recovery of pre-petition and post-petition claims. The Company’s reported net income is directly affected by management’s estimate of the collectability of accounts receivable. 

Real Estate 

The Company’s investments in real estate properties are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Significant renovations and replacements, which improve and extend the life of the asset, are capitalized. 

Upon acquisition of operating real estate properties, the Company estimates the fair value of acquired tangible assets (primarily consisting of land, building, building improvements and tenant improvements) and identified intangible assets and liabilities (primarily consisting of above and below-market leases, in-place leases and tenant relationships), assumed debt and redeemable units issued in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, Business Combinations. Based on these estimates, the Company allocates the purchase price to the applicable assets and liabilities. The Company utilizes methods similar to those used by independent appraisers in estimating the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. The useful lives of amortizable intangible assets are evaluated each reporting period with any changes in estimated useful lives being accounted for over the revised remaining useful life. 

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows: 

 Buildings and building improvements  15 to 50 years  

 Fixtures, leasehold and tenant improvements  Terms of leases or useful  

 (including certain identified intangible assets)  lives, whichever is shorter   

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of its properties for purposes of determining the amount of depreciation to reflect on an annual basis with respect to those properties. These assessments have a direct impact on the Company’s net income. 

Real estate under development on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets represents ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping center projects which are subsequently sold upon completion and projects which the Company may hold as long-term investments. These assets are carried at cost. The cost of land and buildings under development includes specifically  

46 

identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved and other costs incurred during the period of development. The Company ceases cost capitalization when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity. If, in management’s opinion, the estimated net sales price of these assets is less than the net carrying value, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. A gain on the sale of these assets is generally recognized using the full accrual method in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 66, Accounting for Real Estate Sales. 

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may be impaired. A property value is considered impaired only if management’s estimate of current and projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the property over its remaining useful life is less than the net carrying value of the property. Such cash flow projections consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. To the extent impairment has occurred, the carrying value of the property would be adjusted to an amount to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

When a real estate asset is identified by management as held-for-sale, the Company ceases depreciation of the asset and estimates the sales price of such asset net of selling costs. If, in management’s opinion, the net sales price of the asset is less than the net book value of such asset, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures 

The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated joint ventures under the equity method of accounting as the Company exercises significant influence, but does not control, these entities. These investments are recorded initially at cost and are subsequently adjusted for cash contributions and distributions. Earnings for each investment are recognized in accordance with each respective investment agreement and, where applicable, are based upon an allocation of the investment’s net assets at book value as if the investment was hypothetically liquidated at the end of each reporting period. 

The Company’s joint ventures and other real estate investments primarily consist of co-investments with institutional and other joint venture partners in neighborhood and community shopping center properties, consistent with its core business. These joint ventures typically obtain non-recourse third-party financing on their property investments, thus contractually limiting the Company’s exposure to losses to the amount of its equity investment, and, due to the lender’s exposure to losses, a lender typically will require a minimum level of equity in order to mitigate its risk. The Company’s exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily limited to its carrying value in these investments. The Company, on a selective basis, obtains unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. These unsecured financings are guaranteed by the Company with guarantees from the joint venture partners for their proportionate amount s of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make.  

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the Company’s investments in unconsolidated joint ventures may be impaired. An investment’s value is impaired only if management’s estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value of the investment and such difference is deemed to be other-than-temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the estimated fair value of the investment. 

The Company’s estimated fair values are based upon a discounted cash flow model for each specific property that includes all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period. Capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in these models are based upon rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for each respective property.  

Marketable Securities 

 The Company classifies its existing marketable equity securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. These securities are carried at fair market value with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (“OCI”). Gains or losses on securities sold are based on the specific identification method. 

 All debt securities are generally classified as held-to-maturity because the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are stated at amortized cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Debt securities which contain conversion features are generally classified as available-for-sale. 

 On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the Company’s marketable securities may be impaired. A marketable security is impaired if the fair value of the security is less than the carrying value of the security and such difference is deemed to be other-than-temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the security over the estimated fair value in the security. 

47 

Results of Operations 

Comparison 2008 to 2007 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) 

Revenues from rental property increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2008 and 2007, providing incremental revenues of approximately $54.2 million,(ii) the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects and tenant buyouts providing incremental revenues of approximately $34.1 million for the year ended 2008 as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, partially offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, primarily resulting from the transfer of operating properties to various unconsolidated joint venture entities and the sale of certain properties during 2008 and 2007 and (iv)an overall occupancy decrease from the consolidated shopping center portfolio from 95.9% at December 31, 2007 to 93.2% at December 31, 2008. 

(2) 

Rental property expenses increased primarily due to operating property acquisitions during 2008 and 2007 which were partially offset by operating property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities. 

(3) 

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to operating property acquisitions during 2008 and 2007 which were partially offset by operating property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities. 

Mortgage and other financing income increased $4.1 million to $18.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to $14.2 million for the corresponding period in 2007. This increase is primarily due to an increase in interest income from new mortgage receivables entered into during 2008 and 2007. 

Management and other fee income decreased approximately $7.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in other transaction related fees of approximately $9.1 million, recognized during the year ended December 31, 2007, partially offset by an increase in property management fees of approximately $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $14.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. This increase is primarily due to personnel-related costs, primarily due to the growth within the Company’s co-investment programs and the overall continued growth of the Company during 2008 and 2007. In addition, due to current economic conditions resulting in the lack of transactional activity within the real estate industry as a whole, the Company has accrued approximately $3.6 million at December 31, 2008, relating to severance costs associated with employees who have been terminated during January 2009.  

Interest, dividends and other investment income increased approximately $19.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. This increase is primarily due to (i) an increase in realized gains of approximately $2.5 million resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during 2008 as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, (ii) an increase in interest income of approximately $16.1 million, primarily resulting from interest earned on notes acquired in 2008 and (iii) an increase in dividend income of approximately $1.2 million primarily resulting from increased investments in marketable securities during 2008. 

Other expense, net decreased approximately $8.3 million to $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to $10.6 million for the corresponding period in 2007. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a reduction in Canadian withholding tax expense relating to a 2007 capital transaction from a Canadian preferred equity investment, partially offset by (ii) the receipt of fewer shares during 2008 as compared to 2007 of Sears Holding Corp. common stock received as partial settlement of Kmart pre-petition claims and (iii) the recognition of a $7.7 million unrealized decrease in the fair value of an embedded derivative instrument relating to the convertible option of certain debt securities. 

48 

(Provision)/benefit for income taxes changed $45.9 million to a provision of $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to a benefit of $42.4 million for the corresponding period in 2007. This change is primarily due to (i) a tax provision of approximately $17.3 million, partially offset by a reduction of approximately $3.1 million in NOL valuation allowance from equity income recognized during 2008 in connection with the Albertson’s investment and (ii) a reduction of approximately $28.1 million of NOL valuation allowance during 2007. 

Income from other real estate investments increased $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. This increase is primarily due to a gain of approximately $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, from the sale of the Company’s interest in a real estate company located in Mexico. 

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net for the year ended December 31, 2008, was approximately $132.2 million as compared to $173.4 million for the corresponding period in 2007. This reduction of approximately $41.2 million is primarily the result of (i) a decrease in equity in income of approximately $47.1 million from the Kimco Retail Opportunity Portfolio (“KROP”) joint venture investment primarily due to a decrease in profit participation from the sale/transfer of operating properties for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, (ii) a decrease in equity in income of approximately $25.2 million from the KIR joint venture investment primarily resulting from fewer gains on sales of operating properties during the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, (iii) impairment charges during 2008 of approximately $11.2 million, before income tax benefit, relating to certain joint vent ure properties held by the KimPru joint venture that are deemed held-for-sale or were transitioned to held-for-use properties,(iv) lower gains on sale of approximately $21.3 million for 2008 as compared to 2007, partially offset by (v) an increase in equity in income of approximately $67.4 million from the Albertson’s joint venture investment primarily resulting from gains on sale of 121 properties during 2008 as compared to 2007 and (vi) growth within the Company’s other various real estate joint ventures due to additional capital investments for the acquisition of additional operating properties by ventures throughout 2007 and the year ended December 31, 2008. 

During 2008, the Company sold, in separate transactions, (i) two completed merchant building projects, (ii) 21 out-parcels, (iii) a partial sale of one project and (iv) a partnership interest in one project for aggregate proceeds of approximately $73.5 million and received approximately $4.1 million of proceeds from completed earn-out requirements on three previously sold merchant building projects. These sales resulted in gains of approximately $21.9 million, after income taxes of $14.6 million.  

During 2007, the Company sold, in separate transactions, (i) four completed merchant building projects, (ii) 26 out-parcels, (iii) 74.3 acres of undeveloped land and (iv) completed partial sales of two projects, for aggregate total proceeds of approximately $310.5 million and approximately $3.3 million of proceeds from completed earn-out requirements on previously sold projects. These transactions resulted in gains of approximately $24.1 million, after income taxes of $16.0 million. 

For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of approximately $114.8 million, net of income tax benefit of approximately $31.1 million, of which approximately $105.1 million of these charges where taken in the fourth quarter of 2008.  

Approximately $92.7 million of the total non-cash impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2008, were due to the decline in value of certain marketable equity securities and other investments that were deemed to be other-than-temporary. Of the $92.7 million, approximately $83.1 million of these impairment charges were taken at the end of the fourth quarter of 2008 resulting from the unprecedented deterioration of the equity markets during the fourth quarter and the uncertainty of their future recoverability.  

The Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $15.5 million against the carrying value of its investment in its unconsolidated joint ventures with PREI, reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of its investment resulting from further significant declines in the real estate markets during the fourth quarter of 2008. Also, impairments of approximately $6.6 million were recognized on real estate development projects including Plantations Crossing located in Middleburg, FL and Miramar Town Center located in Miramar, FL. These development project impairment charges are the result of adverse changes in local market conditions and the uncertainty of their recovery in the future. 

The Company will continue to assess the value of all its assets on an on-going basis. Based on these assessments, the Company may determine that a decline in value for one or more of its investments may be other-than-temporary or permanent and would therefore write-down its cost basis accordingly. 

During 2008, the Company disposed of seven operating properties and a portion of four operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $73.0 million, which resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $20.0 million. In addition, the Company partially recognized deferred gains of approximately $1.2 million on three properties relating to their transfer and partial sale in connection with the Kimco Income Fund II transaction described below.  

49 

During 2007 the Company transferred 11 operating properties to a wholly-owned consolidated entity, Kimco Income Fund II (“KIF II”), for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $278.2 million, including non-recourse mortgage debt of $180.9 million, encumbering 11 of the properties. During 2008, the Company transferred an additional three properties for $73.9 million, including $50.6 million in non-recourse mortgage debt. During 2008 the Company sold a 26.4% non-controlling ownership interest in the entity to third parties for approximately $32.5 million, which approximated the Company’s cost. The Company continues to consolidate this entity. 

Additionally, during 2008, the Company disposed of an operating property for approximately $21.4 million. The Company provided seller financing for approximately $3.6 million, which bears interest at 10% per annum and is scheduled to mature on May 1, 2011. Due to the terms of this financing the Company has deferred its gain of $3.7 million from this sale. 

Additionally, during 2008, a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment disposed of a property for a sales price of approximately $35.0 million. As a result of this capital transaction, the Company received approximately $3.5 million of profit participation, before minority interest of approximately $1.1 million. This profit participation has been recorded as income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

During 2007, the Company (i) disposed of six operating properties and completed partial sales of three operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $40.0 million, which resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $6.4 million, after income taxes of approximately $1.6 million and (ii) transferred one operating property, which was acquired in the first quarter of 2007, to a joint venture in which the Company holds a 15% non-controlling ownership interest for an aggregate price of approximately $4.5 million, which represented the net book value. 

Additionally, during 2007, two consolidated joint ventures in which the Company had preferred equity investments disposed of, in separate transactions, their respective properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $66.5 million. As a result of these capital transactions, the Company received approximately $22.1 million of profit participation, before minority interest of approximately $5.6 million. This profit participation has been recorded as income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2008, was $249.9 million or $0.78 on a diluted per share basis as compared to $442.8 million or $1.65 on a diluted per share basis for the corresponding period in 2007. This change is primarily attributable to (i) the recognition of non-cash impairment charges aggregating approximately $121.5 million, net of income tax benefit, resulting from continuing declines in the equity securities and real estate markets, (ii) recognition of an extraordinary gain of approximately $50.3 million, net of income tax, in 2007, relating to the Albertson’s joint venture, (iii) a reduction of Equity in income of real estate joint ventures of approximately $41.2 million, primarily due to a decrease in profit participation and gain on sales of operating properties during 2008 as compared to 2007, iv) a decrease in the reduction of NOL valuation allowance and the recording of a provision from equity in income recognized during 2008 in connection with the Albert son’s investment, partially offset by (v) an increase in revenues from rental properties primarily due to acquisitions of operating properties during 2008 and 2007. 

Comparison 2007 to 2006 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) 

Revenues from rental property increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2007 and 2006, providing incremental revenues of approximately $85.5 million, (ii) an overall occupancy increase from the consolidated shopping center portfolio to 95.9% at December 31, 2007, as compared to 95.1% at December 31, 2006, due to growth in rental rates from renewing expiring leases, the completion of certain redevelopment and development projects and tenant buyouts providing incremental revenues of approximately $14.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006, offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $6.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006, resulting from the transfer of operating properties to various unconsolidated joint venture entities, and the sale of certain properties during 2007 and 2006. 

50 

(2) 

Rental property expenses increased primarily due to operating property acquisitions during 2007 and 2006, which were partially offset by operating property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities. 

(3) 

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to operating property acquisitions during 2007 and 2006, which were partially offset by operating property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities. 

Mortgage and other financing income decreased $4.6 million to $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to $18.8 million for the corresponding period in 2006. This decrease is primarily due to the recognition of accretion income of approximately $6.2 million, resulting from the early prepayment of a mortgage receivable in 2006 partially offset by an overall increase in interest income on mortgage receivables entered into in 2007 and 2006. 

Management and other fee income increased approximately $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This increase is primarily due to increased property management fees and other transaction related fees related to the growth in the Company’s co-investment programs. 

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $27.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This increase is primarily due to personnel-related costs, primarily due to growth within the Company’s co-investment programs and the overall continued growth of the Company. 

Interest, dividends and other investment income decreased approximately $19.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in realized gains resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during 2007 as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. 

Other (expense)/income, net decreased approximately $19.5 million to $10.6 million of an expense for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to $8.9 million in income for the corresponding period in 2006. This decrease is primarily due to (i) the receipt of fewer shares during 2007 as compared to 2006 of Sears Holding Corp. common stock received as partial settlement of Kmart pre-petition claims and (ii) an increase in Canadian withholding charges on profit participation proceeds received during 2007 relating to capital transactions from a Canadian preferred equity investment. 

Interest expense increased approximately $43.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This increase is due to higher interest rates and higher outstanding levels of debt during the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to 2006. 

Benefit for income taxes increased $46.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This increase is primarily due to the reduction of approximately $31.2 million of NOL valuation allowance and a tax benefit of approximately $10.1 million from operating losses recognized in connection with the Albertson’s investment. 

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net increased $67.8 million to $173.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to $105.5 million for the corresponding period in 2006. This increase is primarily the result of (i) an increase in equity in income from the Kimco Realty Opportunity Portfolio ("KROP") joint venture investment primarily resulting from profit participation of approximately $39.3 million and gains on sale/transfer of operating properties during 2007 of which the Company’s share of gains were $12.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, (ii) an increase in equity in income from the Kimco Income Opportunity Portfolio ("KIR") joint venture investment primarily resulting from gains on sale of operating properties during 2007 of which the Company’s share of gains was $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and (iii) the Company’s growth of its various other real estate joint ventures due to additio nal capital investments for the acquisition of additional operating properties by the ventures throughout 2007 and 2006, partially offset by net operating losses and excess cash distribution from the Albertson’s joint venture of approximately $7.9 million during 2007. 

During 2007, the Company sold, in separate transactions, (i) four completed merchant building projects, (ii) 26 out-parcels, (iii) 74.3 acres of undeveloped land and (iv) completed partial sales of two projects, for aggregate total proceeds of approximately $310.5 million and approximately $3.3 million of proceeds from completed earn-out requirements on previously sold projects. These transactions resulted in gains of approximately $24.1 million, after income taxes of $16.0 million. 

As part of the Company’s ongoing analysis of its merchant building projects, the Company has determined that for two of its projects, located in Jacksonville, FL and Anchorage, AK, the recoverable value will not exceed their estimated cost. This is primarily due to adverse changes in local market conditions and the uncertainty of their recovery in the future. As a result, the Company has recorded an aggregate pre-tax adjustment of property carrying value on these projects for the year ended December 31, 2007, of $8.5 million, representing the excess of the carrying value of the projects over their estimated fair value.  

51 

During 2006, the Company sold six recently completed merchant building projects, its partnership interest in one project and 30 out-parcels, in separate transactions, for approximately $260.0 million. These sales resulted in gains of approximately $25.1 million, after income taxes of $12.2 million. These gains exclude approximately $1.1 million of gain relating to one project, which was deferred due to the Company’s continued ownership interest. 

During 2007, the Company (i) disposed of six operating properties and completed partial sales of three operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $40.0 million, which resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $6.4 million, after income tax of approximately $1.6 million and (ii) transferred one operating property, which was acquired in the first quarter of 2007, to a joint venture in which the Company holds a 15% non-controlling ownership interest for an aggregate price of approximately $4.5 million, which represented the net book value. 

Additionally, during 2007, two consolidated joint ventures in which the Company had preferred equity investments disposed of, in separate transactions, their respective properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $66.5 million. As a result of these capital transactions, the Company received approximately $22.1 million of profit participation, before minority interest of approximately $5.6 million. This profit participation has been recorded as income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

During 2006, the Company disposed of (i) 28 operating properties and one ground lease for an aggregate sales price of $270.5 million, which resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $71.7 million, net of income taxes of $2.8 million relating to the sale of two properties, and (ii) transferred five operating properties, to joint ventures in which the Company has 20% non-controlling interests for an aggregate price of approximately $95.4 million, which resulted in a gain of approximately $1.4 million from one transferred property. 

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $442.8 million or $1.65 on a diluted per share basis as compared to $428.3 million or $1.70 on a diluted per share basis for the corresponding period in 2006. This change is primarily attributable to (i) an increase in revenues from rental properties primarily due to acquisitions of operating properties during 2007 and 2006, (ii) an increase in equity in income of real estate joint ventures achieved from profit participation and gains on sale of joint venture operating properties and additional capital investments in the Company’s joint venture programs for the acquisition of additional operating properties throughout 2007 and 2006, (iii) earnings of $75.5 million related to the Albertson’s investment monetization, partially offset by (iv) a decrease in income resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during the corresponding period in 2006 and (v) a decrease in gains on sale of operating properties in 20 07 as compared to 2006. 

Tenant Concentrations 

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties, avoiding dependence on any single property and a large tenant base. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s five largest tenants were The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings, Kohl’s and Wal-Mart, which represented approximately 3.3%, 2.8%, 2.5%, 2.2% and 1.8%, respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company’s capital resources include accessing the public debt and equity capital markets, when available, mortgage and construction loan financing and immediate access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of approximately $1.7 billion. 

The Company’s cash flow activities are summarized as follows (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities 

Cash flows provided from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008, were approximately $567.6 million, as compared to approximately $666.0 million for the comparable period in 2007. The change of approximately $98.4 million is primarily attributable to (i) a decrease in distributions from joint ventures resulting from a decrease of approximately $66.2 million in distributions from the Albertson’s investment during 2008 as compared to 2007 and a decrease of approximately $74.8 million in  

52 

distributions from other joint venture investments, primarily from the KROP joint venture investment, which was due to a decrease in profit participation from the sale/transfer of operating properties for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, partially offset by increased cash flows due to (ii) the acquisition of properties during 2008 and 2007 and (iii) growth in rental rates from lease renewals and the completion of certain re-development and development projects.  

Recently, the capital and credit markets have become increasingly volatile and constrained as a result of adverse conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and the availability of funds remains limited, the Company will incur increased costs associated with issuing or obtaining debt. In addition, it is possible that the Company’s ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these or other factors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at this time the Company anticipates that cash flows from operating activities will continue to provide adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt service obligations and dividend payments in accordance with REIT requirements in both the short term and long term.  

The Company continually evaluates its debt maturities, and, based on management’s current assessment, believes it has viable financing and refinancing alternatives that will not materially adversely impact its expected financial results. Although the credit environment has become much more constrained since the third quarter of 2008, the Company continues to pursue opportunities with large commercial U.S. and global banks, select life insurance companies and certain regional and local banks. The Company has noticed a trend that the approval process from lenders has slowed, while pricing and loan-to-value ratios remain dependent on specific deal terms, in general, spreads are higher and loan-to-values are lower, but the lenders are continuing to complete financing agreements. Moreover, the Company continues to assess 2009 and beyond to ensure the Company is prepared if the current credit market dislocation continues.  

Debt maturities for 2009 consist of: $451.9 million of consolidated debt; $756.1 million of unconsolidated joint venture debt; and $245.0 million of preferred equity debt, assuming the utilization of extension options where available. The 2009 consolidated debt maturities are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, borrowings from the Company’s credit facilities, which at December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $1.0 billion available under these credit facilities, and debt refinancings. The 2009 unconsolidated joint venture and preferred equity debt maturities are anticipated to be repaid through debt refinancing and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate. 

The Company anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facilities, issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Net cash flow provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008, was primarily attributable to (i) cash flow from the diverse portfolio of rental properties, (ii) the acquisition of operating properties during 2008 and 2007, (iii) new leasing, expansion and re-tenanting of core portfolio properties and (iv) contributions from the Company’s joint venture and Preferred Equity programs. 

Investing Activities 

Cash flows used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008, were approximately $781.4 million, as compared to approximately $1.5 billion for the comparable period in 2007. This decrease in cash utilization of approximately $726.3 million resulted primarily from decreases in (i) the acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate, (ii) the acquisition of and improvements to real estate under development and (iii) the Company’s investment and advances to joint ventures, partially offset by (iv) an increase in cash utilized for investments in marketable securities including the acquisition of the Valad convertible notes and equity securities during 2008 and (v) a decrease in proceeds from the sale of development properties during the 2008 as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. 

Acquisitions of and Improvements to Operating Real Estate 

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company expended approximately $266.2 million towards acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate including $68.9 million expended in connection with redevelopments and re-tenanting projects as described below. (See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects during 2009 will be approximately $50.0 million to $80.0 million. The funding of these capital requirements will be provided by cash flow from operating activities and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit. 

Investments and Advances to Real Estate Joint Ventures 

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company expended approximately $219.9 million for investments and advances to real estate joint ventures and received approximately $118.7 million from reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures. (See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

53 

Acquisitions of and Improvements to Real Estate Under Development 

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consist of (i) merchant building through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which develop neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) U.S. ground-up development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (iii) various ground-up development projects located in Latin America for long-term investment (see Recent Developments - International Real Estate Investments and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The ground-up development projects generally have significant pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had in progress a total of 47 ground-up development projects including 11 merchant building projects, one U.S. ground-up development project, 29 ground-up development projects located throughout Mexic o, three ground-up development projects located in Chile, two ground-up development projects located in Brazil and one ground-up development project located in Peru. 

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company expended approximately $389.0 million in connection with construction costs and the purchase of land related to ground-up development projects. The Company anticipates its capital commitment during 2009 toward these and other development projects will be approximately $150.0 million to $200.0 million. The proceeds from the sales of completed ground-up development projects, proceeds from construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital requirements.  

Dispositions and Transfers 

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company received net proceeds of approximately $176.3 million relating to the sale of various operating properties and ground-up development projects and approximately $32.4 million from the transfer of operating properties to various joint ventures. (See Notes 3 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Financing Activities 

Cash flows provided from financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008, were approximately $262.4 million, as compared to approximately $584.1 million for the comparable period in 2007. This decrease of approximately $321.7 million resulted primarily from the (i) decrease in proceeds provided by mortgage/construction loan financing of approximately $337.5 million, (ii) a decrease of $300.0 million in proceeds from the issuance of unsecured senior notes and (iii) the increase in dividends paid during 2008 as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, offset by (iv) an increase in borrowings under the Company’s unsecured revolving credit facilities of approximately $185.0 million and (v) a decrease in repayment of unsecured senior notes and repayments of borrowings under unsecured revolving credit facilities of approximately $187.5 million.  

The Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment-grade debt ratings. The Company may, from time-to-time, seek to obtain funds through additional common and preferred equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a conservative debt structure. 

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $6.1 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have been used for the purposes of, among other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments. These markets have experienced extreme volatility and deterioration since the third quarter 2008. As available, the Company will continue to access these markets. In March 2006, the Company was added to the S & P 500 Index, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap corporations, most of which are U.S. corporations. 

The Company has a $1.5 billion unsecured U.S. revolving credit facility (the "U.S. Credit Facility") with a group of banks, which is scheduled to expire in October 2011. The Company has a one-year extension option related to this facility. This credit facility has made available funds to finance general corporate purposes, including (i) property acquisitions, (ii) investments in the Company’s institutional management programs, (iii) development and redevelopment costs and (iv) any short-term working capital requirements, including managing the Company’s debt maturities. Interest on borrowings under the U.S. Credit Facility accrues at LIBOR plus  

54 

0.425% and fluctuates in accordance with changes in the Company’s senior debt ratings. As part of this U.S. Credit Facility, the Company has a competitive bid option whereby the Company may auction up to $750.0 million of its requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid option provides the Company the opportunity to obtain pricing below the currently stated spread. A facility fee of 0.15% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. As part of the U.S. Credit Facility, the Company has a $200.0 million sub-limit which provides it the opportunity to borrow in alternative currencies such as Pounds Sterling, Japanese Yen or Euros. As of December 31, 2008, there was $675.0 million outstanding and $23.5 million in letter of credit appropriations under this credit facility. Pursuant to the terms of the U.S. Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is subject to maintenance of various covenants. The Company is currently not in violation of these covenants. Financial covenants for the U.S. Credit Facility are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For a full description of the US Credit Facility’s covenants refer to the Credit Agreement dated as of October 25, 2007 filed in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 25, 2007. 

The Company also has a three-year CAD $250.0 million unsecured credit facility with a group of banks. This facility bore interest at the CDOR Rate, as defined, plus 0.45%, and was scheduled to expire in March 2008. During October 2007, the facility was amended to modify the covenant package to conform to the Company’s U.S. Credit Facility. The facility was further amended in January 2008, to extend the maturity date to 2011, with an additional one-year extension option, at a reduced rate of CDOR plus 0.425%, subject to change in accordance with the Company’s senior debt ratings. This facility also permits U.S. dollar denominated borrowings. Proceeds from this facility are used for general corporate purposes, including the funding of Canadian denominated investments. As of December 31, 2008, there was CAD $40.0 million (approximately USD $32.7 million) outstanding balance under this credit facility. The Canadian facility covenants are t he same as the U.S. Credit Facility covenants described above. 

Additionally, the Company had a three-year MXP 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility which bore interest at the TIIE Rate, as defined therein, plus 1.00%, subject to change in accordance with the Company’s senior debt ratings, and was scheduled to mature in May 2008. During March 2008, the Company obtained a MXP 1.0 billion term loan, which bears interest at a rate of 8.58%, subject to change in accordance with the Company’s senior debt ratings, and is scheduled to mature in March 2013. The Company utilized proceeds from this term loan to fully repay the outstanding balance of the MXP 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which has been terminated. Remaining proceeds from this term loan were used for funding MXP denominated investments. As of December 31, 2008, the outstanding balance on this term loan was MXP 1.0 billion (approximately USD $73.9 million). The Mexican term loan covenants are the same as the U.S. and Canadian Cre dit Facilities covenants described above. 

The Company has a Medium Term Notes ("MTN") program pursuant to which it may, from time-to-time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities. (See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)  

The Company’s supplemental indenture governing its medium term notes and senior notes contains the following covenants, all of which the Company is compliant with: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For a full description of the Indenture’s covenants refer to the Indenture dated September 1, 1993, First Supplemental Indenture dated August 4, 1994, the Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 7, 1995, and the Third Supplemental Indenture dated June 2, 2006, as filed with the SEC. See Exhibits Index on page 67, for specific filing information. 

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company repaid its $100.0 million 3.95% medium term notes, which matured on August 5, 2008, and its $25.0 million 7.2% senior notes, which matured on September 15, 2008. 

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the Company may, from time-to-time, obtain mortgage financing on selected properties and construction loans to partially fund the capital needs of its ground-up development projects. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had over 390 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio. 

55 

During 2008, the Company (i) obtained an aggregate of approximately $16.7 million of non-recourse mortgage debt on three operating properties, (ii) assumed approximately $101.1 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the acquisition of five operating properties, including approximately $0.8 million of fair value debt adjustments and (iii) paid off approximately $73.4 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt that encumbered 11 operating properties. 

During 2008, the Company obtained individual construction loans on three merchant building projects. Additionally, the Company repaid a construction loan on one merchant building project. At December 31, 2008, total loan commitments on the Company’s 16 outstanding construction loans aggregated approximately $364.2 million of which approximately $268.3 million has been funded. These loans have scheduled maturities ranging from two months to 42 months and bear interest at rates ranging from 1.81% to 3.19% at December 31, 2008. Approximately $194.0 million of the outstanding loan balance matures in 2009. These maturing loans are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, borrowings under the Company’s credit facilities and additional debt financings. In addition, the Company may pursue or exercise existing extension options with lenders where available. 

During May 2006, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR, which is effective for a term of three-years, for unlimited future offerings, from time-to-time, of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants. 

During September 2008, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of 11,500,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. The net proceeds from this sale of common stock, totaling approximately $409.4 million (after related transaction costs of $0.6 million) were used to partially repay the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility.  

During 2008, the Company received approximately $38.3 million through employee stock option exercises and the dividend reinvestment program. 

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows. The Company’s Board of Directors will continue to evaluate the Company’s dividend policy on a quarterly basis as they monitor sources of capital and evaluate the impact of the economy and capital markets availability on operating fundamentals. Since cash used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests in new properties and other investments as suitable opportunities arise and such other factors as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. Cash dividends paid increased to $4 69.0 million in 2008, compared to $384.5 million in 2007 and $332.6 million in 2006. 

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable instruments. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.44 per common share payable to shareholders of record on January 2, 2009, which was paid on January 15, 2009. In addition, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.44 per common share payable April 15, 2009 to shareholders of record on April 6, 2009. 

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments 

The Company has debt obligations relating to its revolving credit facilities, MTNs, senior notes, mortgages and construction loans with maturities ranging from less than one year to 27 years. As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s total debt had a weighted average term to maturity of approximately 4.5 years. In addition, the Company has non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has 48 shopping center properties that are subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying land to the Company to construct and/or operate a shopping center. In addition, the Company has 16 non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its retail store lease portfolio. The following table summarizes the Company’s debt maturities, excluding extension options, and obligations under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2008 (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

56 

(1) 

maturities utilized do not reflect extension options, which range from six months to two years. 

(2) 

for loans which have interest at floating rates, future interest expense was calculated using the rate as of December 31, 2008. 

The Company has $50.0 million of medium term notes, $130.0 million of senior unsecured notes, $6.1 of unsecured notes payable, $173.6 million of mortgage debt and $194.0 million of construction loans scheduled to mature in 2009. The Company anticipates satisfying these maturities with a combination of operating cash flows, its unsecured revolving credit facilities, refinancing of debt, new debt issuances, when available, and the sale of completed ground-up development projects. 

The Company has issued letters of credit in connection with completion and repayment guarantees for construction loans encumbering certain of the Company’s ground-up development projects and guaranty of payment related to the Company’s insurance program. These letters of credit aggregate approximately $34.3 million. 

During August 2008, KimPru entered into a new $650.0 million credit facility which matures in August 2009, with the option to extend for one year, and bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.25%. KimPru is obligated to pay down a minimum of $165.0 million, among other requirements, in order to exercise the one-year extension option. The required pay down is expected to be sourced from property sales, other debt financings and/or capital contributions by the partners. This facility is guaranteed by the Company with a guarantee from PREI to the Company for 85% of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. Proceeds from this new credit facility were used to repay the outstanding balance of $658.7 million under an existing $1.2 billion credit facility, which was scheduled to mature in October 2008 and bore interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 0.45%. As of December 31, 2008, the outstanding balance on the new credit facility was $650.0 million. 

During September 2008, a joint venture in which the Company has a non-controlling ownership interest obtained a $37.0 million mortgage loan, which is jointly and severally guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner, with a commitment of up to $37.0 million of which $26.9 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2008. This loan bears interest at 6.375% and is scheduled to mature in October 2019. 

During October 2008, a joint venture in which the Company has a non-controlling ownership interest entered into an extension and modification agreement for a $28.0 million term loan. The loan is guaranteed by the Company, with a commitment of up to $28.0 million of which $28.0 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2008. This loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.65%, which was 2.09% at December 31, 2008, and is scheduled to mature in March 2009. The Company is currently negotiating with lenders regarding extending or refinancing this debt. 

During June 2007, the Company entered into a joint venture, in which the Company has a non-controlling ownership interest, and acquired all of the common stock of InTown Suites Management, Inc. This investment was funded with approximately $186.0 million of new cross-collateralized non-recourse mortgage debt with a fixed interest rate of 5.59%, encumbering 35 properties, a $153.0 million three-year unsecured credit facility, with two one-year extension options, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.375% and is guaranteed by the Company and the assumption of $278.6 million cross-collateralized non-recourse mortgage debt with fixed interest rates ranging from 5.19% to 5.89%, encumbering 86 properties. The joint venture partner has pledged its equity interest for any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to pay. The outstanding balance on the three-year unsecured credit facility was $147.5 million as of December 31, 2008. The joint venture obtained an interest rate swa p at 5.37% on $128.0 million of this debt. The swap is designated as a cash flow hedge and is deemed highly effective; as such adjustments to the swaps fair value are recorded in Other comprehensive income. 

During November 2007, the Company entered into a joint venture, in which the Company has a non-controlling ownership interest, to acquire a property in Houston, Texas. This investment was funded with a $24.5 million unsecured credit facility scheduled to mature in November 2009, with a six-month extension option, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.375% and is guaranteed by the Company. The outstanding balance on this credit facility as of December 31, 2008, was $24.5 million. 

During April 2007, the Company entered into a joint venture, in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling ownership interest to acquire a property in Visalia, CA. Subsequent to this acquisition the joint venture obtained a $6.0 million three-year promissory note which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.75% and has an extension option of two-years. This loan is jointly and severally guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner. As of December 31, 2008, the outstanding balance on this loan was $6.0 million. 

During 2006, an entity in which the Company has a preferred equity investment, located in Montreal, Canada, obtained a non-recourse construction loan, which is collateralized by the respective land and project improvements. Additionally, the Company has provided a guaranty to the lender and the developer partner has provided an indemnity to the Company for 25% of all debt. As of December 31, 2008, there was CAD $89.0 million (approximately USD $72.7 million) outstanding on this construction loan. 

In connection with the construction of its development projects and related infrastructure, certain public agencies require performance and surety bonds be posted to guarantee that the Company’s obligations are satisfied. These bonds expire upon the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. As of December 31, 2008, there were approximately $61.8 million bonds outstanding. 

57 

Additionally, the RioCan Venture, an entity in which the Company holds a 50% non-controlling interest, has a CAD $7.0 million (approximately USD $5.7 million) letter of credit facility. This facility is jointly guaranteed by RioCan and the Company and had approximately CAD $4.6 million (approximately USD $3.8 million) outstanding as of December 31, 2008, relating to various development projects.  

During 2005, an entity in which the Company has a preferred equity investment obtained a CAD $24.3 million (approximately USD $19.8 million) credit facility to finance the construction of a 0.1 million square foot shopping center property located in Kamloops, B.C. This facility bears interest at Royal Bank Prime Rate ("RBP") plus 0.5% per annum and was scheduled to mature in March 2008. During 2008, this facility was extended to expire on February 28, 2009. The Company and its partner in this entity each have a limited and several guarantee of CAD $7.5 million (approximately USD $6.1 million) on this facility. As of December 31, 2008, there was CAD $22.3 million (approximately USD $18.2 million) outstanding on this facility. The Company and its partner are currently negotiating with lenders regarding extending or refinancing this debt. 

During 2005, PL Retail, a joint venture in which the Company holds a 15% non-controlling interest, entered into a $39.5 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.50% and was scheduled to mature in February 2008. During 2008, the loan was extended to February 2009. This facility is guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner has guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 85% of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. As of December 31, 2008, there was $35.6 million outstanding under this facility. During February 2009, PL Retail made a principal payment of $5.6 million and obtained a one-year extension option at LIBOR plus 400 basis points for the remaining balance of $30.0 million. 

Additionally, during 2005, the Company acquired three operating properties and one land parcel, through joint ventures, in which the Company holds 50% non-controlling interests. Subsequent to these acquisitions, the joint ventures obtained four individual loans aggregating $20.4 million with interest rates ranging from LIBOR plus 1.00% to LIBOR plus 3.50%. During 2007, one of these properties was sold for a sales price of approximately $10.5 million, including the pay down of $5.0 million of debt. These loans are scheduled to mature in May 2009, October 2009 and December 2009. During 2008, one of the loans was increased by $2.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, there was an aggregate of $17.4 million outstanding on these loans. These loans are jointly and severally guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures 

The Company has investments in various unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. These joint ventures operate either shopping center properties or are established for development projects. Such arrangements are generally with third-party institutional investors, local developers and individuals. The properties owned by the joint ventures are primarily financed with individual non-recourse mortgage loans, however, the Company, on a selective basis, obtains unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. These unsecured financings are guaranteed by the Company with guarantees from the joint venture partners for their proportionate amounts of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. Non-recourse mortgage debt is generally defined as debt whereby the lenders’ sole recourse with respect to borrower defaults is limited to the value of the property collateralized by the mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse aga inst any other assets owned by the borrower or any of the constituent members of the borrower, except for certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  

These investments include the following joint ventures: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) 

Ownership % is a blended rate. 

(b) 

See Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments regarding guarantees by the Company and its joint venture partners. 

(c) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Prudential Real Estate Investors. 

(d) 

Represents the Kimco Income REIT, formed in 1998. 

(e) 

Represents the Company’s joint venture formed from the acquisition of the Price Legacy Corporation. 

(f) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with UBS Wealth Management North American Property Fund Limited. 

(g) 

Represents the Company’s joint venture with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust. 

58 

The Company has various other unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. As of December 31, 2008, these unconsolidated joint ventures had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $2.8 billion and unsecured notes payable aggregating approximately $189.4 million. The Company’s share of this debt was approximately $1.4 billion. These loans have scheduled maturities ranging from one month to 22 years and bear interest at rates ranging from 1.19% to 10.5% at December 31, 2008. Approximately $312.8 million of the outstanding loan balance matures in 2009. These maturing loans are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, debt refinancing and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Other Real Estate Investments 

The Company maintains a Preferred Equity program, which provides capital to developers and owners of real estate properties. The Company accounts for its preferred equity investments under the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity Program was approximately $437.3 million relating to 231 properties. As of December 31, 2008, these preferred equity investment properties had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $1.7 billion. Due to the Company’s preferred position in these investments, the Company’s share of each investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property cash flows. The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its preferred equity investments is primarily limited to its invested capital. 

Additionally, during July 2007, the Company invested approximately $81.7 million of preferred equity capital in a portfolio comprised of 403 net leased properties which are divided into 30 master leased pools with each pool leased to individual corporate operators. These properties consist of a diverse array of free-standing restaurants, fast food restaurants, convenience and auto parts stores. As of December 31, 2008, these properties were encumbered by third party loans aggregating approximately $428.8 million with interest rates ranging from 5.08% to 10.47% with a weighted average interest rate of 9.3% and maturities ranging from 0.4 years to 14.2 years.  

During June 2002, the Company acquired a 90% equity participation interest in an existing leveraged lease of 30 properties. The properties are leased under a long-term bond-type net lease whose primary term expires in 2016, with the lessee having certain renewal option rights. The Company’s cash equity investment was approximately $4.0 million. This equity investment is reported as a net investment in leveraged lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases (as amended). The net investment in leveraged lease reflects the original cash investment adjusted by remaining net rentals, estimated unguaranteed residual value, unearned and deferred income and deferred taxes relating to the investment. 

As of December 31, 2008, 18 of these leveraged lease properties were sold, whereby the proceeds from the sales were used to pay down the mortgage debt by approximately $31.2 million. As of December 31, 2008, the remaining 12 properties were encumbered by third-party non-recourse debt of approximately $42.8 million that is scheduled to fully amortize during the primary term of the lease from a portion of the periodic net rents receivable under the net lease. As an equity participant in the leveraged lease, the Company has no recourse obligation for principal or interest payments on the debt, which is collateralized by a first mortgage lien on the properties and collateral assignment of the lease. Accordingly, this debt has been offset against the related net rental receivable under the lease. 

Effects of Inflation 

Many of the Company's leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above pre-determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon changes in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the Company's leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and will, from time-to-time, enter into interest rate protection agreements and/or foreign currency hedge agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate debt and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

Global Market and Economic Conditions; Real Estate and Retail Shopping Sector 

In the U.S., recent market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower growth throughout 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2008, continued concerns about the systemic impact of the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues and declining equity and real estate markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. economy. In the third quarter, added concerns fueled by the federal government conservatorship of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association, the declared bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the U.S. government provided loans to American  

59 

International Group Inc. and other federal government interventions in the U.S. credit markets led to increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels and has led to the unprecedented deterioration of the U.S. and international equity markets during the fourth quarter of 2008. 

Historically, real estate has been subject to a wide range of cyclical economic conditions that affect various real estate markets and geographic regions with differing intensities and at different times. Different regions of the United States have and may continue to experience varying degrees of economic growth or distress. Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions could result in the inability of some tenants of the Company to meet their lease obligations and could otherwise adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract or retain tenants. The Company’s shopping centers are typically anchored by two or more national tenants which generally offer day-to-day necessities, rather than high-priced luxury items. In addition, the Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through ownership of a portfolio of properties with a diverse geographic and tenant base.  

The Company monitors potential credit issues of its tenants, and analyzes the possible effects to the financial statements of the Company and its unconsolidated joint ventures. In addition to the collectability assessment of outstanding accounts receivable, the Company evaluates the related real estate for recoverability as well as any tenant related deferred charges for recoverability, which may include straight-line rents, deferred lease costs, tenant improvements, tenant inducements and intangible assets. 

The retail shopping sector has been negatively affected by recent economic conditions. These conditions may result in our tenants delaying lease commencements or declining to extend or renew leases upon expiration. These conditions also have forced some weaker retailers, in some cases, to declare bankruptcy and/or close stores. Certain retailers have announced store closings even though they have not filed for bankruptcy protection. However, any of these particular store closings affecting the Company often represent a small percentage of the Company’s overall gross leasable area and the Company does not currently expect store closings to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s overall performance.  

The decline in market conditions has also had a negative effect on real estate transactional activity as it relates to the acquisition and sale of real estate assets. The Company believes that the lack of real estate transactions will continue throughout 2009 which will curtail the Company’s growth in the near term. 

New Accounting Pronouncements -  

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 157, Fair Value Measurement (“SFAS No. 157”), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurement. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. During February 2008, the FASB issued two Staff Positions that (i) partially deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for one year for certain nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities and (ii) removed certain leasing transactions from the scope of SFAS No. 157. The impact of partially adopting SFAS No. 157 did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. (See footnote 15 for additional disclosure). 

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (“SFAS No. 159”). SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The impact of adopting SFAS No. 159 did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations, as the Company did not elect the fair value option for its financial assets and liabilities. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (“SFAS No. 141(R)”). The objective of this statement is to improve the relevance, representational faithfulness and comparability of the information that a reporting entity provides in its financial reports about a business combination and its effects. To accomplish that, this statement establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer: (i) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, (ii) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase, (iii) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination and (iv) requires expensing of transaction costs associated with a business combination. This s tatement applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. An entity may not apply it before that date. The impact the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will have on the Company’s financial position and results of operations will be dependent upon the volume of business combinations entered into by the Company. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Non-controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements” (“FAS 160”). FAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards that require the ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent be clearly identified, labeled and presented in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, but separate  

60 

from the parent’s equity; the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the non-controlling interest be clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of income; changes in a parent’s ownership interest while the parent retains its controlling financial interest in its subsidiary be accounted for consistently; when a subsidiary is deconsolidated, any retained non-controlling equity investment in the former subsidiary be initially measured at fair value; and entities provide sufficient disclosures that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the non-controlling owners. The objective of the guidance is to improve the relevance, comparability, and transparency of the financial information that a reporting entity provides in its consolidated financial statements. FAS 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Earlier adoption is prohibited. The impact the adoption of SFAS No. 160 will have on the Company’s financial position and results of operations will be dependent upon the volume of transactions which will specifically be impacted by this pronouncement. 

In March 2008, the FASB issued FAS 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133", (“SFAS No. 161”) which amends and expands the disclosure requirements of FAS 133 to require qualitative disclosure about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on derivative instruments and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. SFAS No. 161 is to be applied prospectively for the first annual reporting period beginning on or after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. SFAS No. 161 also encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosures for earlier periods at initial adoption. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s disclosures. 

In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 142-3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (“FSP 142-3”). FSP 142-3 removes the requirement under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to consider whether an intangible asset can be renewed without substantial cost or material modifications to the existing terms and conditions and replaces it with a requirement that an entity consider its own historical experience in renewing similar arrangements, or a consideration of market participant assumptions in the absence of historical experience. FSP 142-3 also requires entities to disclose information that enables users of financial statements to assess the extent to which the expected future cash flows associated with the asset are affected by the entity’s intent and/or ability to renew or extend the arrangement. FSP 142-3 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Earlier adoption is prohibited. The adoption of FS P 142-3 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. 

In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. EITF 03-6-1, "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities," (“EITF 03-6-1”), which classifies unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) as participating securities and requires them to be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method described in SFAS No. 128, "Earnings per Share." EITF 03-6-1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Earlier adoption is prohibited. All prior-period earnings per share data presented are to be adjusted retrospectively. The Company’s adoption of EITF 03-6-1 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. 

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN46(R)-8, Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities, which promptly improves disclosures by public companies until the pending amendments to FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities (“SFAS No. 140”), and FIN 46(R), are finalized and approved by the Board. The FSP amends SFAS No. 140 to require public companies to provide additional disclosures about transfers of financial assets and variable interests in qualifying special-purpose entities. It also amends FIN 46(R) to require public companies to provide additional disclosures about their involvement with variable interest entities. This FSP is effective for reporting periods ending after December 15, 2008. (See footnotes 3, 7 and 8 for additional disclosure). 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk