Item 1. Business 

General 

Kimco Realty Corporation, a Maryland corporation, is one of the nation's largest owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. The terms "Kimco", the "Company", "we", "our" and "us" each refer to Kimco Realty Corporation and our subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. The Company is a self-administered real estate investment trust ("REIT") and its management has owned and operated neighborhood and community shopping centers for over 50 years. The Company has not engaged, nor does it expect to retain, any REIT advisors in connection with the operation of its properties. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had interests in 1,950 properties, totaling approximately 182.2 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”) located in 45 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Peru. The Company’s ownership interests in real estate consist of its consolidated portfolio and in portfolios where the Company owns an economic interest, such as properties in the Company’s investment management programs, where the Company partners with institutional investors and also retains management (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The Company believes its portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping center properties is the largest (measured by GLA) currently held by any publicly traded REIT. 

The Company's executive offices are located at 3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde Park, New York 11042-0020 and its telephone number is (516) 869-9000. 

The Company’s web site is located at http://www.kimcorealty.com. The information contained on our web site does not constitute part of this annual report on Form 10-K. On the Company’s web site you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable, after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). 

History 

The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco Corporation, which was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several shopping center properties owned by its principal stockholders. In 1973, these principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation, and, in 1985, the operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company completed its initial public stock offering (the "IPO") in November 1991, and, commencing with its taxable year which began January 1, 1992, elected to qualify as a REIT in accordance with Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In 1994, the Company reorganized as a Maryland corporation. 

The Company's growth through its first 15 years resulted primarily from the ground-up development and construction of its shopping centers. By 1981, the Company had assembled a portfolio of 77 properties that provided an established source of income and positioned the Company for an expansion of its asset base. At that time, the Company revised its growth strategy to focus on the acquisition of existing shopping centers and creating value through the redevelopment and re-tenanting of those properties. As a result of this strategy, a majority of the operating shopping centers added to the Company’s portfolio since 1981, have been through the acquisition of existing shopping centers. 

3 

During 1998, the Company, through a merger transaction, completed the acquisition of The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation, (the "Price REIT"). Prior to the merger, Price REIT was a self-administered and self-managed equity REIT that was primarily focused on the acquisition, development, management and redevelopment of large retail community shopping center properties concentrated in the western part of the United States. In connection with the merger, the Company acquired interests in 43 properties, located in 17 states. With the completion of the Price REIT merger, the Company expanded its presence in certain western states including Arizona, California and Washington. In addition, Price REIT had strong ground-up development capabilities. These development capabilities, coupled with the Company’s own construction management expertise, provide the Company the ability to pursue ground-up development opportunities on a selective basis. 

Also during 1998, the Company formed Kimco Income REIT ("KIR"), an entity in which the Company held a 99.99% limited partnership interest. KIR was established for the purpose of investing in high-quality properties financed primarily with individual non-recourse mortgages. The Company believed that these properties were appropriate for financing with greater leverage than the Company traditionally used. At the time of formation, the Company contributed 19 properties to KIR, each encumbered by an individual non-recourse mortgage. During 1999, KIR sold a significant interest in the partnership to institutional investors, thus establishing the Company’s investment management program. The Company holds a 45.0% non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method of accounting. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10- K.) 

The Company has expanded its investment management program through the establishment of other various institutional joint venture programs in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging generally from 5% to 45%. The Company’s largest joint venture, Kimco Prudential Joint Venture ("KimPru"), was formed in 2006, in connection with the Pan Pacific Retail Properties Inc. ("Pan Pacific") merger transaction, with Prudential Real Estate Investors ("PREI"), which holds approximately $3.4 billion in undepreciated real estate assets at book value. The Company earns management fees, acquisition fees, disposition fees and promoted interests based on value creation. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

In connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the "RMA"), which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is permitted to participate in activities from which it was previously precluded in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Code, subject to certain limitations. As such, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiaries, is engaged in various retail real estate related opportunities, including (i) merchant building through its wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which are primarily engaged in the ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping centers and subsequent sale thereof upon completion (see Recent Developments - Ground-Up Development), (ii) retail real estate advisory and disposition services, which primarily focus on leasing and disposition strategies for real estate property interests of both healthy and distressed retailers and (iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax-deferred exchange transactions. The Company will consider other investments through taxable REIT subsidiaries should suitable opportunities arise. 

The Company has continued its geographic expansion with investments in Canada, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Chile, Brazil and Peru. During October 2001, the Company formed the RioCan Venture ("RioCan Venture") with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust ("RioCan", Canada’s largest publicly traded REIT measured by GLA) in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, to acquire retail properties and development projects in Canada. The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method of accounting. The Company has expanded its presence in Canada with the establishment of other joint venture arrangements. During 2002, the Company, along with various strategic co-investment partners, began acquiring operating and development properties located in Mexico. During 2006, the Company acquired interests in shopping center properties located in Puerto Rico through joint ventures in which the Company holds controlling ownership interests. During 2007, the Company a cquired an interest in four shopping center properties located in Chile through a joint venture in which the Company holds a non-controlling ownership interest. During 2008, the Company acquired interests in two shopping center properties in Brazil through a joint venture in which the Company holds a controlling ownership interest and a land parcel for ground-up development located in Peru through a joint venture in which the Company holds a controlling interest. (See Notes 3 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

In addition, the Company continues to capitalize on its established expertise in retail real estate by establishing other ventures in which the Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides management, leasing and operational support for those properties. The Company also provides preferred equity capital for real estate entrepreneurs and provides real estate capital and advisory services to both healthy and distressed retailers. The Company also makes selective investments in secondary market opportunities where a security or other investment is, in management’s judgment, priced below the value of the underlying assets, however, these investments are subject to volatility within the equity and debt markets. 

4 

Investment and Operating Strategy  

The Company's investment objective has been to increase cash flow, current income and, consequently, the value of its existing portfolio of properties and to seek continued growth through (i) the strategic re-tenanting, renovation and expansion of its existing centers and (ii) the selective acquisition of established income-producing real estate properties and properties requiring significant re-tenanting and redevelopment, primarily in neighborhood and community shopping centers in geographic regions in which the Company presently operates. The Company has and will continue to consider investments in other real estate sectors and in geographic markets where it does not presently operate should suitable opportunities arise. 

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties are designed to attract local area customers and typically are anchored by a discount department store, a supermarket or a drugstore tenant offering day-to-day necessities rather than high-priced luxury items. The Company may either purchase or lease income-producing properties in the future and may also participate with other entities in property ownership through partnerships, joint ventures or similar types of co-ownership. Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and/or other indebtedness. Financing or other indebtedness may be incurred simultaneously or subsequently in connection with such investments. Any such financing or indebtedness would have priority over the Company’s equity interest in such property. The Company may make loans to joint ventures in which it may or may not participate. 

In addition to property or equity ownership, the Company provides property management services for fees relating to the management, leasing, operation, supervision and maintenance of real estate properties. 

While the Company has historically held its properties for long-term investment and accordingly has placed strong emphasis on its ongoing program of regular maintenance, periodic renovation and capital improvement, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold, in whole or in part, as circumstances warrant, subject to REIT qualification rules. 

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and a large tenant base. As of December 31, 2008, the Company's single largest neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for only 1.0% of the Company's annualized base rental revenues and only 0.9% of the Company’s total shopping center GLA. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s five largest tenants were The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings, Kohl’s and Wal-Mart, which represent approximately 3.3%, 2.8%, 2.5%, 2.2% and 1.8%, respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest. 

In connection with the RMA, which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company has expanded its investment and operating strategy to include new real estate-related opportunities which the Company was precluded from previously in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT. As such, the Company established a merchant building business through its wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which make selective acquisitions of land parcels for the ground-up development primarily of neighborhood and community shopping centers and subsequent sale thereof upon completion. Additionally, the Company has developed a business which specializes in providing capital, real estate advisory services and disposition services of real estate controlled by both healthy and distressed and/or bankrupt retailers. These services may include assistance with inventory and fixture liquidation in connection with going-out-of-business sales. The Company may participate with other entities in providing these advisory services through partnerships, joint ventures or other co-ownership arrangements. The Company, as part of its investment strategy, will selectively seek investments for its taxable REIT subsidiaries as suitable opportunities arise. 

The Company emphasizes equity real estate investments including preferred equity investments, but may, at its discretion, invest in mortgages, other real estate interests and other investments. The mortgages in which the Company may invest may be either first mortgages, junior mortgages or other mortgage-related securities. The Company provides mortgage financing to retailers with significant real estate assets, in the form of leasehold interests or fee-owned properties, where the Company believes the underlying value of the real estate collateral is in excess of its loan balance. In addition, the Company will acquire debt instruments at a discount in the secondary market where the Company believes the asset value of the enterprise is greater than the current value, however, these investments are subject to volatility within the equity and debt markets. 

The Company may legally invest in the securities of other issuers, for the purpose, among others, of exercising control over such entities, subject to the gross income and asset tests necessary for REIT qualification. The Company may, on a selective basis, acquire all or substantially all securities or assets of other REITs or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with the Company’s investment policies. In any event, the Company does not intend that its investments in securities will require it to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940. 

The Company has authority to offer shares of capital stock or other senior securities in exchange for property and to repurchase or otherwise reacquire its common stock or any other securities and may engage in such activities in the future. At all times, the Company intends to make investments in such a manner as to be consistent with the requirements of the Code to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes in the Code (or in Treasury Regulations), the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Company to qualify as a REIT. 

5 

Capital Strategy and Resources 

The Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment-grade debt ratings. It is management's intention that the Company continually have access to the capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly, the Company may, from time-to-time, seek to obtain funds through additional common and preferred equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a conservative debt structure.  

Since the completion of the Company's IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $6.1 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have been used for repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments, among other things. The Company also has revolving credit facilities totaling approximately $1.7 billion available for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $707.7 million outstanding on these facilities.  

Capital markets have experienced extreme volatility and deterioration since the third quarter 2008. As available, the Company will continue to access these markets. In addition to capital markets, the Company had over 390 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio as of December 31, 2008. The Company has capacity within its bond and other debt covenants to raise up to $1.3 billion in secured financing on these unencumbered properties. 

In March 2006, the Company was added to the S & P 500 Index, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap companies, most of which are U.S. corporations. For further discussion regarding capital strategy and resources, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition - Financing Activities. 

Competition  

As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping center industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers, the Company has established close relationships with a large number of major national and regional retailers and maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is associated with and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry organizations. Notwithstanding these relationships, there are numerous regional and local commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors who compete with the Company for the acquisition of properties and other investment opportunities and in seeking tenants who will lease space in the Company’s properties. 

Operating Practices 

Nearly all operating functions, including leasing, legal, construction, data processing, maintenance, finance and accounting, are administered by the Company from its executive offices in New Hyde Park, New York and supported by the Company’s regional offices. The Company believes it is critical to have a management presence in its principal areas of operation and, accordingly, the Company maintains regional offices in various cities throughout the United States. As of December 31, 2008, a total of 680 persons are employed at the Company's executive and regional offices. 

The Company's regional offices are generally staffed by a regional business leader and the operating personnel necessary to both function as local representatives for leasing and promotional purposes, to complement the corporate office’s administrative and accounting efforts and to ensure that property inspection and maintenance objectives are achieved. The regional offices are important in reducing the time necessary to respond to the needs of the Company's tenants. Leasing and maintenance personnel from the corporate office also conduct regular inspections of each shopping center. 

As of December 31, 2008, the Company also employs a total of 54 persons at several of its larger properties in order to more effectively administer its maintenance and security responsibilities. 

Qualification as a REIT  

The Company has elected, commencing with its taxable year which began January 1, 1992, to qualify as a REIT under the Code. If, as the Company believes, it is organized and operates in such a manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT under the Code, the Company generally will not be subject to federal income tax, provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under the Code. 

6 

In connection with the RMA, the Company’s taxable subsidiaries may participate in activities from which the Company was previously precluded, subject to certain limitations. The primary activities of the Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries during 2008 included, but were not limited to, (i) the ground-up development of shopping center properties and subsequent sale thereof upon completion (see Recent Developments - Ground-Up Development), (ii) real estate advisory and disposition services, including the Company’s investment in Albertson’s described below and (iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax deferred exchange transactions. The Company was subject to federal and state income taxes on the income from these activities. 

Recent Developments 

The following describes the Company’s significant transactions completed during the year ended December 31, 2008. (See Notes 3, 4, 5, 7 and 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Operating Properties - 

Acquisitions - 

During 2008, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, eight operating properties, comprising an aggregate 1.0 million square feet of GLA for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $194.5 million, including the assumption of approximately $96.2 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering four of the properties. 

Dispositions -  

During 2008, the Company disposed of seven operating properties and a portion of four operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $73.0 million, which resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $20.0 million. In addition, the Company partially recognized deferred gains of approximately $1.2 million on three properties relating to their transfer and partial sale in connection with the Kimco Income Fund II transaction described below.  

During 2007, the Company transferred 11 operating properties to a wholly-owned consolidated entity, Kimco Income Fund II (“KIF II”), for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $278.2 million, including non-recourse mortgage debt of $180.9 million, encumbering 11 of the properties. During 2008, the Company transferred an additional three properties for $73.9 million, including $50.6 million in non-recourse mortgage debt. During 2008, the Company sold a 26.4% non-controlling ownership interest in the entity to third parties for approximately $32.5 million, which approximated the Company’s cost. The Company continues to consolidate this entity. 

Redevelopments - 

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. During 2008, the Company substantially completed the redevelopment and re-tenanting of various operating properties. The Company expended approximately $68.9 million in connection with these major redevelopments and re-tenanting projects during 2008. The Company is currently involved in redeveloping several other shopping centers in the existing portfolio. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects will be approximately $50.0 million to $80.0 million during 2009. 

Ground-Up Development - 

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consist of (i) merchant building through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which develop neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale after completion, (ii) U.S. ground-up development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (iii) various ground-up development projects located in Latin America for long-term investment (see Recent Developments - International Real Estate Investments and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The ground-up development projects generally have significant pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had in progress a total of 47 ground-up development projects, consisting of 11 merchant building projects, of which seven are anticipated to be substantially complete during the first half of 2009, one U.S. ground-up development project, 29 ground-up development projects located throughout Mexico, three ground-up development projects located in Chile, two ground-up development projects located in Brazil and one ground-up development project located in Peru. 

7 

Merchant Building - 

As of December 31, 2008, the Company had in progress 11 merchant building projects, of which seven are anticipated to be substantially complete during the first half of 2009, located in six states. During 2008, the Company expended approximately $111.9 million in connection with construction costs and the purchase of land related to these projects and those sold during 2008. As part of the Company’s ongoing analysis of its merchant building projects, the Company has determined that for two of its projects, located in Miramar, FL and Middleburg, FL, the estimated recoverable value will not exceed their estimated cost. This is primarily due to adverse changes in local market conditions and the uncertainty of their recovery in the future. As a result, the Company has recorded an aggregate pre-tax adjustment of property carrying value on these projects for the year ended December 31, 2008, of $7.9 million, representing the excess of the carrying values of the pr ojects over their estimated fair values. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward its merchant building projects will be approximately $70.0 million to $75.0 million during 2009. The proceeds from the sale of completed ground-up development projects during 2009, proceeds from construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital requirements. 

Acquisitions - 

During 2008, the Company acquired three land parcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $9.7 million. 

During 2008, the Company obtained individual construction loans on three merchant building projects. Additionally, the Company repaid a construction loan on one merchant building project. At December 31, 2008, total loan commitments on the Company’s 16 outstanding construction loans aggregated approximately $364.2 million of which approximately $268.3 million has been funded. These loans have scheduled maturities ranging from two months to 42 months and bear interest at rates ranging from 1.81% to 3.19% at December 31, 2008. Approximately $194.0 million of the outstanding loan balance matures in 2009. These maturing loans are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, borrowings under the Company’s credit facilities and additional debt financings. In addition, the Company may pursue or exercise existing extension options with lenders where available. 

Dispositions - 

During 2008, the Company sold, in separate transactions, (i) two completed merchant building projects, (ii) 21 out-parcels, (iii) a partial sale of one project and (iv) a partnership interest in one project for aggregate proceeds of approximately $73.5 million and received approximately $4.1 million of proceeds from completed earn-out requirements on three previously sold merchant building projects. These sales resulted in gains of approximately $21.9 million, net of income taxes of $14.6 million.  

U.S. Long-Term Investment Projects - 

As of December 31, 2008, the Company had in progress one U.S. long-term investment project. The Company anticipates its capital commitment towards this project will be up to $8 million, before reimbursements, during 2009.  

Kimsouth - 

During June 2006, Kimsouth, a consolidated taxable REIT subsidiary in which the Company holds a 92.5% controlling interest, contributed approximately $51.0 million to fund its 15% non-controlling interest in a newly formed joint venture with an investment group to acquire a portion of Albertson’s Inc.  

During 2008, the Albertson’s joint venture disposed of 121 operating properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $564.0 million, resulting in a gain of approximately $552.3 million, of which Kimsouth’s share was approximately $73.1 million. During 2008, Kimsouth recognized equity in income, net from the Albertson’s joint venture of approximately $64.4 million before income taxes, including the $73.1 million in gains and $15.0 million from cash received in excess of the Company’s investment. As a result of these transactions, Kimsouth fully reduced its deferred tax asset valuation allowance and utilized all of its remaining net operating loss (“NOL’s”) carry-forwards, which provided a tax benefit of approximately $3.1 million.(See Notes 3 and 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Additionally, during 2008, the Albertson’s joint venture acquired six operating properties and four leasehold properties for approximately $26.0 million, including the assumption of approximately $5.8 million in non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties. 

8 

Investment and Advances in Real Estate Joint Ventures -  

The Company has various institutional and non-institutional joint venture programs in which the Company has various non-controlling interests, which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Acquisitions - 

During 2008, the Company acquired 2 operating properties, and one leasehold interest through joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $13.8 million. The Company’s aggregate investment resulting from these transactions was approximately $7.9 million.  

Dispositions -  

During 2008, KimPru sold, in separate transactions, four operating properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $45.3 million, which approximated their carrying values. Proceeds from these property sales were used to repay a portion of the outstanding balance on its credit facility. Also during 2008, KIR disposed of one operating property for a sales price of approximately $1.9 million. This sale resulted in an aggregate loss of approximately $0.6 million of which the Company’s share was approximately $0.3 million. 

Financings - 

During August 2008, KimPru entered into a new $650.0 million credit facility which matures in August 2009, with the option to extend for one year, and bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.25%. KimPru is obligated to pay down a minimum of $165.0 million, among other requirements, in order to exercise the one-year extension option. The required pay down is expected to be sourced from property sales, other debt financings and/or capital contributions by the partners. This facility is guaranteed by the Company with a guarantee from PREI to the Company for 85% of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. Proceeds from this new credit facility were used to repay the outstanding balance of $658.7 million under an existing $1.2 billion credit facility, which was scheduled to mature in October 2008 and bore interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 0.45%.  

During the year ended December 31, 2008, KIR repaid 16 non-recourse mortgages aggregating approximately $209.6 million, which were scheduled to mature in 2008 and bore interest at rates ranging from 6.57% to 7.28%. Proceeds from eight individual non-recourse mortgages obtained during 2008, aggregating approximately $218.3 million, bearing interest at rates ranging from 6.0% to 6.5% with maturity dates ranging from 2015 to 2018 were used to fund these repayments.  

In addition, during 2008, two joint venture investments in which the Company holds a 50% interest in each obtained individual non-recourse mortgages totaling $77.0 million. These mortgages have interest rates ranging from 6.38% to 6.47% and maturities ranging from 2018 to 2019. Proceeds from these mortgages were used to retire $36.0 million of mortgage debt encumbering two properties held by the joint ventures.  

International Real Estate Investments -  

Canadian Investments - 

During 2008, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, 12 operating properties located in Canada, through three newly formed joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests. These properties were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately CAD $193.7 million (approximately USD $187.2 million), including CAD $105.6 million (approximately USD $101.7 million) of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering all 12 of the properties. The Company’s aggregate investment in these joint ventures was approximately CAD $46.1 million (approximately USD $37.7 million). 

During 2008, the Company provided, through three separate Canadian preferred equity investments, an aggregate of approximately CAD $15.3 million (approximately USD $12.5 million) to developers and owners of 11 real estate properties. 

The Company recognized equity in income from its unconsolidated Canadian investments in real estate joint ventures of approximately $18.6 million, $22.5 million and $21.1 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, income from its Canadian preferred equity investments was approximately $23.2 million, $35.1 million and $13.9 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

9 

Latin American Investments - 

During 2008, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, one operating property located in Valinhos, Brazil for a purchase price of 29.0 million Brazilian Real (“BRL”) (approximately USD $17.4 million) comprising 121,000 square feet of GLA and one operating property in Santiago, Chile, for a purchase price of 1.5 billion Chilean Pesos ("CLP") (approximately USD $4.0 million), comprising 26,000 square feet. (See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). 

During 2008, the Company acquired (i) 5 land parcels located throughout Mexico for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 368.2 million Mexican Pesos (“MXP”) (approximately USD $33.3 million), (ii) one land parcel located in Lima, Peru for a purchase price of approximately 1.9 million Peruvian Nuevo Sol (“PEN”) (approximately USD $0.7 million), (iii) two land parcels located in Chile for a purchase price of approximately 7.9 billion CLP (approximately USD $16.1 million) and (iv) one land parcel located in Hortolandia, Brazil for a purchase price of approximately 7.4 BRL (approximately USD $3.2 million). These nine land parcels will be developed into retail centers aggregating approximately 1.7 million square feet of gross leasable area with a total estimated aggregate project cost of approximately USD $195.5 million. These projects are inline with budget and on or close to schedule. 

During 2008, the Company acquired, through an unconsolidated joint venture investment, 11 land parcels, in separate transactions, located throughout Mexico for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 554.9 million MXP (approximately USD $48.5 million) which will be held for investment or possible future development.  

In addition, during 2008 the Company acquired, in separate transactions, two land parcels located in Chihuahua and San Luis Potosi, Mexico, and one operating property located in Monterrey, Mexico for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $10.9 million through an existing joint venture in which the Company has non-controlling interests. The Company’s aggregate investment in these joint ventures was approximately $5.5 million.  

During 2008, the Company acquired four operating properties located in Santiago, Chile, through a joint venture in which the Company has a non-controlling interest. These properties were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 2.5 billion CLP (approximately USD $3.8 million). The Company’s aggregate investment in this joint venture is approximately CLP 1.3 billion (approximately USD $1.9 million).  

The Company recognized equity in income from its unconsolidated Mexican investments in real estate joint ventures of approximately $17.1 million, $5.2 million and $11.8 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

The Company recognized equity in income from its unconsolidated Chilean investments in real estate joint ventures of approximately $0.2 million and $0.1 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

The Company’s revenues from its consolidated Mexican subsidiaries aggregated approximately $20.3 million, $8.5 million and $2.4 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company’s revenues from its consolidated Brazilian subsidiaries aggregated approximately $0.4 million during 2008. 

Other Real Estate Investments - 

Preferred Equity Capital - 

The Company maintains a Preferred Equity program, which provides capital to developers and owners of real estate properties. During 2008, the Company provided, in separate transactions, an aggregate of approximately $51.9 million in investment capital to developers and owners of 28 real estate properties, including the Canadian investments described above. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company earned approximately $66.8 million, including $24.6 million of profit participation earned from 10 capital transactions from these investments.  

Mortgages and Other Financing Receivables - 

During 2008, the Company provided financing to six borrowers for an aggregate amount of up to approximately $86.3 million, of which $72.9 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had 35 loans with total commitments of up to $208.5 million, of which approximately $181.2 million has been funded. Availability under the Company’s revolving credit facilities are expected to be sufficient to fund these commitments. (See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

10 

Asset Impairments – 

Recent market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower growth throughout 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2008, continued concerns about the systemic impact of the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues and declining equity and real estate markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. economy. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels and has led to the unprecedented deterioration of U.S. and international equity markets during the fourth quarter of 2008. 

Historically, real estate has been subject to a wide range of cyclical economic conditions that affect various real estate markets and geographic regions with differing intensities and at different times. Different regions of the United States have and may continue to experience varying degrees of economic growth or distress. The decline in market conditions has also had a negative effect on real estate transactional activity as it relates to the acquisition and sale of real estate assets.  

As a result of the volatility and declining market conditions described above, the Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, recognized non-cash impairment charges of approximately $114.8 million, net of income tax benefit of approximately $31.1 million, of which approximately $105.1 million of these charges where taken in the fourth quarter of 2008.  

Approximately $92.7 million of the total non-cash impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2008, were due to the decline in value of certain marketable equity securities and other investments that were deemed to be other-than-temporary. Of the $92.7 million, approximately $83.1 million of these impairment charges were taken at the end of the fourth quarter of 2008 resulting from the unprecedented deterioration of the equity markets during the fourth quarter and the uncertainty of their future recoverability.  

The Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of $15.5 million against the carrying value of its investment in its unconsolidated joint ventures with PREI, reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of its investment resulting from further significant declines in the real estate markets during the fourth quarter of 2008. Also, impairments of approximately $6.6 million, net of income tax benefit, were recognized on real estate development projects including Plantations Crossing located in Middleburg, FL and Miramar Town Center located in Miramar, FL, previously described. These development project impairment charges are the result of adverse changes in local market conditions and the uncertainty of their recovery in the future. (See Notes 5, 7 and 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

In addition to the impairment charges above, the Company recognized impairment charges during 2008 of approximately $11.2 million, before income tax benefit of approximately $4.5 million, relating to certain properties held by an unconsolidated joint venture within the KimPru joint venture that are deemed held-for-sale or were transitioned from held-for-sale to held-for-use properties. These impairment charges are included in Equity in income of joint ventures, net in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.  

Financing Transactions - 

During September 2008, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of 11,500,000 shares of the Company’s common stock (“Common Stock”). The net proceeds from this sale of Common Stock, totaling approximately $409.4 million (after related transaction costs of $0.6 million) were used to partially repay the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility.  

For discussion regarding financing transactions relating to the Company’s unsecured notes, credit facilities, non-recourse mortgage debt and construction loans, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition - Financing Activities and Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments. (See Notes 11, 12, 13 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Exchange Listings 

The Company's common stock, Class F Depositary Shares and Class G Depositary Shares are traded on the NYSE under the trading symbols "KIM", "KIMprF" and “KIMprG”, respectively. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors