Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our investments are intended to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. Our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, money market funds, cash deposits, and marketable securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $1,836.0 million as of March 31, 2013 compared to $1,787.6 million as of March 31, 2012. The available-for-sale debt securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. We have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. The following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. We have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At March 31, 2013, $33.8 million of the fair value of our investment portfolio was invested in ARS. With the continuing liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets, our ARS have experienced multiple failed auctions and are not liquid. While we continue to earn interest on these investments based on a pre-determined formula with spreads tied to particular interest rate indices, the estimated market value for a portion of these ARS no longer approximates the original purchase value.

The fair value of the failed ARS of $33.8 million has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. We evaluated the impairments in the value of these ARS, determining our intent to sell these securities prior to the recovery of our amortized cost basis, which resulted in some of the securities being other-than-temporarily impaired and recognized impairment charges on these investments of $0.4 million in fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2012, we recognized a $0.3 million gain on our ARS positions as a gain on redemption at par value of one ARS position offset impairment charges recognized during the year. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings.

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA