Part I   

 Item 1. Business   

 Overview   

 We are a leading provider of trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, information and public company services across six continents. Our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, access services, data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, corporate solutions and market technology products and services. Our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting derivatives trading, clearing and settlement, cash equity trading, fixed income trading and many other functions.   

 History   

 Nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of FINRA (then known as the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.). Beginning in 2000, FINRA restructured and broadened ownership in Nasdaq by selling shares to FINRA members, investment companies and issuers listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market.   

 In connection with this restructuring, Nasdaq applied to the SEC to register The NASDAQ Stock Market as a national securities exchange. FINRA fully divested its ownership of Nasdaq in 2006, and The NASDAQ Stock Market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. In 2006, Nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. As a result, most of our businesses are operated by our subsidiaries.   

 On February 27, 2008, Nasdaq and OMX AB combined their businesses and Nasdaq was renamed The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. This transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a U.S.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as many other marketplaces around the world.   

 Also in 2008, we expanded our business through the acquisitions of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. and the Boston Stock Exchange, Incorporated. These acquisitions allowed us to extend our presence in the U.S. derivatives markets and we currently operate three separate U.S. options markets. In addition, we have used the licenses acquired in these acquisitions to launch two additional U.S. cash equity markets.   

 We also have expanded into the business of trading and clearing commodities products in recent years. In 2008, we acquired the clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries of Nord Pool ASA, or Nord Pool. As a result of this acquisition, we launched Nasdaq Commodities, which offers energy and carbon derivatives products. In 2010, we acquired a derivatives trading market through the purchase of the remaining businesses of Nord Pool. In July 2012, we acquired NOS Clearing ASA, or NOS Clearing, a leading Norway-based clearinghouse primarily for over-the-counter, or OTC, traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market.   

 In August 2010, we acquired SMARTS Group Holdings Pty Ltd, or SMARTS, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. In two separate transactions in 2012 and 2014, we acquired 100% ownership interest in BWise Beheer B.V. and its subsidiaries, or BWise, a Netherlands-based service provider that offers enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. These acquisitions have expanded our Market Technology business.   

 In recent years, we have significantly grown our Corporate Solutions business, which provides customer support services, products and programs to companies including companies listed on our exchanges, through organic growth and numerous acquisitions. Most recently, in 2013, we acquired the Investor Relations, Public Relations and Multimedia Solutions businesses of Thomson Reuters, or the TR Corporate businesses.   

 In 2013, we further expanded our Market Services and Information Services businesses by acquiring from BGC Partners, Inc. and certain of its affiliates, or BGC, certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the eSpeed business, or eSpeed, including the eSpeed brand name and various assets comprising the fully electronic portion of BGC’s benchmark U.S. Treasury brokerage, data and co-location service businesses.  

 On January 30, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Dorsey, Wright & Associates, LLC, or DWA, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing and smart beta strategies. DWA is part of our Information Services business.  

 Products and Services   

 Since January 1, 2013, we manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: Market Services, Listing Services, Information Services and Technology Solutions. Prior to January 1, 2013, we managed, operated and provided our   

 2  

 Table Of Contents   

products and services in three business segments: Market Services, Issuer Services and Market Technology. All prior period segment disclosures have been recast to reflect our change in reportable segments. Certain other prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.   

 Of our 2014 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,067 million, 39.4% was from our Market Services segment, 11.5% was from our Listing Services segment, 22.9% was from our Information Services segment and 26.2% was from our Technology Solutions segment. Of our 2013 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $1,895 million, 41.0% was from our Market Services segment, 12.0% was from our Listing Services segment, 23.0% was from our Information Services segment and 24.0% was from our Technology Solutions segment. Of our 2012 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $1,674 million, 45.4% was from our Market Services segment, 13.4% was from our Listing Services segment, 23.9% was from our Information Services segment and 17.3% was from our Technology Solutions segment.   

 See Note 19, “Business Segments,” to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our reportable segments and geographic data.   

 Market Services   

 Our Market Services segment includes our equity derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing, and access and broker services businesses. We operate multiple exchanges and other marketplace facilities across several asset classes, including derivatives, commodities, cash equity, debt, structured products and ETFs. In addition, in some countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide broker services, clearing, settlement and central depository services. Our transaction-based platforms provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes. The platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions, providing fee-based revenues.   

 Equity Derivative Trading and Clearing  

 In the U.S., we operate three options exchanges, The NASDAQ Options Market, Nasdaq PHLX and Nasdaq BX Options, for the trading of equity options, ETF options, index options and foreign currency options. During the year ended December 31, 2014, our options markets had an average combined market share of approximately 26.9% in the U.S. equity options market, consisting of approximately 16.0% at Nasdaq PHLX, 10.0% at The NASDAQ Options Market and 0.9% at Nasdaq BX Options. Together, our combined market share represented the largest share of the U.S. equity and ETF options market. Our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor.   

 In Europe, Nasdaq Stockholm offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures and fixed-income options and futures. Nasdaq Nordic Clearing offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, index options and futures, and interest rate swaps by serving as the central counterparty, or CCP. Nasdaq Nordic Clearing also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market.   

 Cash Equity Trading  

 In the U.S., we operate three cash equity exchanges, The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq BX and Nasdaq PSX. The NASDAQ Stock Market is the largest single pool of liquidity for trading U.S.-listed cash equities, matching an average of approximately 17.1% of all U.S. cash equity volume for 2014. In 2014, Nasdaq BX matched an average of approximately 2.5% and Nasdaq PSX matched an average of approximately 0.6% of all U.S. cash equity volume.   

 Our U.S. cash equity exchanges offer trading of both NASDAQ-listed and non-NASDAQ-listed securities. Market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or ATSs, and registered securities exchanges.   

 In Europe, Nasdaq Nordic operates exchanges in Stockholm (Sweden), Copenhagen (Denmark), Helsinki (Finland), and Iceland. The Nordic exchanges offer trading in Nordic securities such as cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units and ETFs. Our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for Nordic data products. Settlement and registration of cash equity trading takes place in Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland via the local central securities depositories.   

 Nasdaq Baltic operates exchanges in Tallinn (Estonia), Riga (Latvia) and Vilnius (Lithuania). Nasdaq owns Nasdaq Tallinn and has a majority ownership in Nasdaq Vilnius and Nasdaq Riga. In addition, Nasdaq Tallinn owns the central securities depository in Estonia, Nasdaq Riga owns the central securities depository in Latvia, and Nasdaq Helsinki and Nasdaq Vilnius jointly own the central securities depository in Lithuania. We also operate Nasdaq Armenia.  

 Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Trading and Clearing   

 Fixed Income and Currency Trading and Clearing. Our fixed income and currency trading and clearing business includes fixed income activities in the Nordic region, our eSpeed business and Nasdaq NLX.  

 3  

 Table Of Contents   

Nasdaq Nordic provides a wide range of products and services, such as listing, trading, and clearing, for fixed income products in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland. Nasdaq Stockholm is the largest bond listing venue in the Nordics, with more than 3,000 listed retail and institutional bonds. In addition, Nasdaq Nordic facilitates the trading and clearing of Nordic fixed income derivatives in a unique market structure. Buyers and sellers agree to trades in fixed income derivatives through bilateral negotiations and then report those trades to Nasdaq’s derivatives markets for CCP clearing. The Nasdaq derivatives markets act as the counterparty to both the buyer and seller.   

  In June 2013, we acquired eSpeed, an electronic platform for trading U.S. Treasuries. The electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark U.S. Treasury securities, one the of largest and most liquid fixed-income cash markets in the world. Through eSpeed, we provide trading access to the U.S. Treasury securities market with an array of trading instruments to meet various investment goals across the fixed income spectrum.   

 Nasdaq NLX is a London-based multilateral trading venue that launched in 2013. Nasdaq NLX offers a range of both short-term interest rate and long-term interest rate euro-and sterling-based listed derivative products.  

 Commodities Trading and Clearing. Nasdaq Commodities is the brand name for Nasdaq’s worldwide suite of commodity-related products and services. The Nasdaq Commodities offerings include power, natural gas and carbon emission markets, tanker and dry cargo freight, fuel oil, seafood derivatives, iron ore, electricity certificates and clearing services. NASDAQ OMX Oslo ASA, which is authorized by the Norwegian Ministry of Finance and supervised by the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority, is the commodity derivatives exchange for Nasdaq Commodities. In addition, all trades with Nasdaq Commodities are subject to clearing with Nasdaq Nordic Clearing, which is authorized to conduct clearing operations in Norway by the Norwegian Ministry of Finance. Nasdaq Commodities has over 400 members across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions.  

 Access and Broker Services   

 Access Services. We provide market participants with a wide variety of alternatives for connecting to and accessing our markets for a fee. Shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems’ scalability while maintaining performance and reliability.   

 Our marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols used for quoting, order entry, trade reporting, DROP functionality and connectivity to various data feeds. We also offer the NASDAQ Workstation, a browser-based, front-end interface that allows market participants to view data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. In addition, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements.   

 We provide co-location services to market participants, whereby firms may lease cabinet space and power to house their own equipment and servers within our data center. These participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. Additionally, we offer a number of wireless connectivity routes between select data centers using millimeter wave and microwave technology. We also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees.   

 Broker Services. Our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the Nordic market. Broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, or SFSA. Services primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company’s back-office functions.   

 We offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. Available services also include direct settlement with the Nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication to deposit banks.   

 Listing Services   

 We operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. Companies listed on our markets represent a diverse array of industries including, among others, health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. Our main listing markets are The NASDAQ Stock Market and the Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic exchanges.   

 4  

 Table Of Contents   

Companies seeking to list securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. Once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. The NASDAQ Stock Market currently has three listing tiers: The NASDAQ Global Select Market, The NASDAQ Global Market and The NASDAQ Capital Market. All three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing).   

 As of December 31, 2014, a total of 2,782 companies listed securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market, with 1,549 listings on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, 627 on The NASDAQ Global Market and 606 on The NASDAQ Capital Market.   

 We aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing IPOs as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. In 2014, The NASDAQ Stock Market attracted 327 new listings. Included in these listings were 189 IPOs, 61% of U.S. IPOs in 2014. The new listings were comprised of the following:   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In 2014, a total of 17 NYSE- or NYSE MKT-listed companies switched to The NASDAQ Stock Market, representing approximately $5 billion in market capitalization, including Office Depot. In addition, Walgreens, which was previously dually listed on NYSE and The NASDAQ Stock Market, delisted from the NYSE, bringing its approximately $52 billion in market capitalization exclusively to Nasdaq. Finally, in January 2015, Advanced Micro Devices, representing approximately $2 billion in market capitalization, switched its listing to The NASDAQ Stock Market.  

 We also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic. For smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the Nasdaq First North alternative marketplaces. As of December 31, 2014, a total of 792 companies listed securities on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and Nasdaq First North.   

 Our European listing customers include companies, funds and governments. Customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, ETFs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. In 2014, a total of 72 new companies listed on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and Nasdaq First North.   

 Our listing services business also includes The NASDAQ Private Market, LLC, or NPM, a marketplace for private growth companies. We own a majority interest in NPM, which is a joint venture with SharesPost, Inc., or SharesPost, combining Nasdaq’s resources, market and operating expertise with SharesPost’s web-based platform. NPM launched in March 2014.  

 Information Services  

 Our Information Services segment includes our Data Products and our Index Licensing and Services businesses.   

 Data Products  

 Our data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. We collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. Our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. Revenues from data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data.   

 We distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products, including NASDAQ TotalView, our flagship market depth quote product. TotalView shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in The NASDAQ Stock Market for NASDAQ-listed securities and critical data for the Opening, Closing, Halt and IPO Crosses. We also offer TotalView products for our Nasdaq BX and Nasdaq PSX markets.   

 5  

 Table Of Contents   

We operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, including NASDAQ Basic, a low cost Level 1 feed and Ultrafeed, a normalized high speed feed of North American equity, options, futures, indexes and mutual fund data. In addition, eSpeed delivers U.S. Treasury data.  

  Our data products business also includes revenues from U.S. tape plans. The NASDAQ Stock Market acts as the administrator for the Joint Self-Regulatory Organization Plan Governing the Collection, Consolidation, and Dissemination of Quotation and Transaction Information for NASDAQ-Listed Securities Traded on Exchanges on an Unlisted Trading Privileges Basis, or the UTP Plan. In this role, NASDAQ sells quotation and last sale information for all transactions in NASDAQ-listed securities, whether traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market or other exchanges, to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. After deducting costs, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the UTP Plan, we distribute the tape revenues to the respective UTP Plan participants, including The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq BX and Nasdaq PSX, based on a formula required by Regulation NMS that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, all quotes and trades in NYSE- and NYSE MKT-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real- time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on NYSE- and NYSE MKT-listed securities.   

 The Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic exchanges, as well as Nasdaq Commodities, also offer data products and services. These data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in European marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets.   

 European data products and services are based on trading information from the Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic exchanges, as well as Nasdaq Commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information.   

 Significant European data products include Nordic Equity TotalView, Nordic Derivative TotalView ITCH, and Nordic Fixed Income Level 2.   

 Finally, we provide index data products based on Nasdaq indexes. Index data products include our Global Index Data Service, which delivers real-time index values throughout the trading day, and Global Index Watch, which delivers weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data.   

 Index Licensing and Services  

 Our Index Licensing and Services business is a leading index provider that develops and licenses Nasdaq branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products. We also provide custom calculation services for third-party clients. License fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. We also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes.   

 Nasdaq indexes are now the basis for 166 exchange traded products with over $99 billion in assets under management. Our flagship index, the NASDAQ-100 Index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market.   

 We also operate the NASDAQ Global Index Family, which includes approximately 39,000 indexes. The NASDAQ Global Index Family represents more than 98% of the global equity investable marketplace. The family consists of global securities broken down by market segment, region, country, size and sector. The NASDAQ Global Index Family covers 45 countries and 9,000 securities.   

 On January 30, 2015, we completed the acquisition of DWA, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing and smart beta strategies. DWA adds to Nasdaq’s robust index portfolio, bringing model-based strategies and analysis to support the financial advisor community, and further strengthens Nasdaq’s position as a leading smart beta index provider in the U.S.   

  Technology Solutions  

 Our Technology Solutions segment includes our Corporate Solutions and Market Technology businesses.   

 Corporate Solutions   

 Our Corporate Solutions business serves corporate clients, including companies listed on our exchanges. We help organizations manage the two-way flow of information with their key constituents, including their board members and investors, and with clients and the public through our suite of advanced technology, analytics, and consultative services.   

 In 2013, we acquired the TR Corporate businesses which were integrated into our Corporate Solutions business.   

 6  

 Table Of Contents   

We provide Corporate Solutions products and services in the following key areas:   

 •Investor Relations. We offer investor relations content, analytics, advisory services and communications tools. Our solutions make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements.   

 •Public Relations. We offer solutions to help clients identify, reach, monitor and measure their public relations program. We provide traditional and social media contacts data, backed by over 100 research analysts. Our press release distribution, webcasting and media players allow clients to reach global audiences cost-effectively. Our suite of technology solutions and expert analysts help clients monitor key news media for their brand, reputation, products, as well as industry competitors, and measure the success of their communications programs.  

 •Multimedia Solutions. We offer a range of services to reach internal and external audiences, including webcasting, webinars, media player, and investor relations websites. Our global scale provides regional expertise and local language support as well as proprietary distribution channels and access to our network of publishing partners.   

 •Governance. We offer a secure collaboration platform for boards of directors or any team collaborating on confidential initiatives. Our solutions protect sensitive data and facilitate productive collaboration, so board members and teams can work faster and more effectively. We also provide enterprise governance, risk and compliance software solutions that harness disparate business processes and content to promote efficiency, transparency and control.   

 We currently have approximately 10,000 Corporate Solutions clients.  

 Market Technology   

 Powering more than 70 marketplaces in 50 countries, our Market Technology business is a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations, central securities depositories, regulators, banks, brokers and corporate businesses. Our Market Technology business is the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces.   

 Market Technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination to markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia to emerging markets in the Middle East, Latin American and Africa. Our marketplace solutions can handle a wide array of assets, including cash equities, equity derivatives, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities and energy products.   

 Our trading and data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues, banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. In the post-trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world.   

 Nasdaq’s market technology is utilized by, among others, the Australian Securities Exchange, ICAP, Bolsa de Valores de Colombia, The Egyptian Exchange, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, SIX Swiss Exchange, Singapore Exchanges, Tokyo Commodity Exchange, Japan Exchange Group, Bursa Malaysia and SBI Japannext.   

 A central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. Through our integration services, we can assume responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. We also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution, as well as advisory services.  

 We also offer broker services through SMARTS. SMARTS Broker is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies.   

 Finally, through BWise, we offer enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks.  

 Technology   

 Technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth, reliability and regulation of financial markets. In 2014, Nasdaq established a technology risk program to consider the resiliency of critical systems. This program is focused on identifying areas for improvement in systems and implementing changes and upgrades to technology and processes to minimize future risk.  

 The foundation for Nasdaq’s core technology is INET. The INET technology is used across Nasdaq’s U.S. and European markets. INET is also a key building block of our Market Technology offerings, Genium INET and X-stream INET. Genium INET and X-stream INET both combine innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers  

 We continuously improve our core technology with a focus on improving capacity, reliability, resiliency and market integrity.   

 7  

 Table Of Contents   

Intellectual Property   

 We own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and in foreign countries. For example, our primary “NASDAQ” mark is a registered trademark in the United States and in over 50 other countries worldwide.   

 To support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively seek protection for our innovations by filing patent applications to protect inventions arising from investments in products, systems, software and services. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments.   

 Over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the U.S., Europe and in other parts of the world. We currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. Hence, no single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business areas.   

 We also maintain copyright protection in our Nasdaq-branded materials.   

 Competition   

 Market Services   

 Equity Derivative Trading and Clearing. In derivatives trading and clearing, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place OTC, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges.   

 Our principal competitors for trading options in the U.S. include the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., or CBOE, the International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc., or ISE, NYSE ARCA, NYSE Amex, BATS Options, MIAX Options, C2 Options Exchange, the BOX Options Exchange Group, LLC and ISE Gemini. Competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing and speed of execution. The intense competition for exchange traded options results in the need to continuously review our technology offerings and pricing.   

 Exchange based competition for trading in European derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our primary competitors for options on European equities are EUREX Group, or EUREX, ICE Futures Europe, Turquoise and, to a limited extent, the U.S. options exchanges. Such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. In addition to exchange based competition in derivatives, we continue to face competition from OTC derivative markets.   

 The competitive significance in Europe of varied alternative trading venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in Europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the update to Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or MiFID II, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services. As trading in Europe evolves, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. Both current and potential competition require us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive.   

 Regulations such as MiFID II, the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation, or MiFIR, and the European Infrastructure Regulation, or EMIR, are altering competition in the clearing business in Europe. MiFID II and MiFIR both will affect our trading business as they are implemented over the next several years. The EMIR requirements are changing the way we structure and operate our clearing business today as implementation is ongoing and will continue into 2015.   

 Cash Equity Trading. The cash equity securities markets are intensely competitive. As a result of the conditions in the U.S. and Europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. In late 2013, IntercontinentalExchange, or ICE, acquired NYSE Euronext, followed by a spin-off of Euronext in 2014 via an IPO. In addition, BATS and Direct Edge completed their merger in 2014. During 2014, both combined companies focused on their integration activities. In late 2014, IEX applied to register as a national securities exchange and announced its intention to operate quite differently from the manner in which existing exchanges compete. These actions have the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the U.S. and Europe.  

 We compete in the U.S. against ICE, BATS Global Markets, Inc., regional exchanges and ATSs. Competition also comes from broker-dealers and from OTC trading in the U.S. and elsewhere. The U.S. marketplace continues to evolve as less heavily regulated broker-owned trading systems and ATSs, known collectively as dark pools, expand in number and activity. While many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of cash equity order volume through aggressive pricing, interconnections with other systems, and volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors.   

 8  

 Table Of Contents   

In Europe, our major competitors include BATS Chi-X Europe, Euronext, Deutsche Börse AG, the London Stock Exchange Group plc, or LSE, and multilateral trading facilities, or MTFs, such as Turquoise. The European landscape is continuing to adapt to the competitive forces released by MiFID II. Throughout Europe, new MTFs have been created with the most prominent MTFs based in the United Kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. MTFs continue to grow their business in shares listed on our Nordic exchanges. Electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business also remain active in Europe. While the state of competition in Europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges remains intense.   

 Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Trading and Clearing. Today, many U.S. fixed-income instruments enjoy some form of electronic trading, but the move to ‘electronify’ the fixed income space is still developing with some products still trading almost exclusively among voice brokers. Expanding the products further in the fixed income space could face competitive forces from the voice broker community or other new electronic platform operators. Currently, other competitors in U.S. Treasury benchmark trading are ICAP’s BrokerTec platform and Dealerweb. While building a U.S. Treasury benchmark trading business is complex, time-consuming and expensive, the risk of competition and declining market share in the space is significant.   

 Listing Services  

 Our primary competitor for larger company listings in the U.S. is NYSE. The NASDAQ Stock Market also competes with NYSE MKT for listing of smaller companies. In addition, now that the BATS/Direct Edge merger has been completed, new competition may arise in listings. The NASDAQ Stock Market also competes with local and international markets for listings by both U.S. and foreign companies that choose to list outside of their home country. For example, we compete for listings with exchanges in Europe and Asia, such as LSE and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.  

 The listings business in Europe is characterized by the large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. Each country has one or more national exchanges which are often the first choice of companies in each respective country. For those considering an alternative, the European exchanges that attract the most overseas listings are LSE, Euronext, Deutsche Börse and the Nasdaq Nordic exchanges.   

 In addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities, such as LSE’s Alternative Investment Market, Euronext’s Alternext, Deutsche Börse’s Entry Standard, Borsa Italiana’s Expandi Market, ICAP Securities & Derivatives Exchange, OTC Markets Group and the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. Other exchanges in Sweden include the Nordic Growth Market and Aktietorget, which primarily serve companies with small market capitalizations.   

 Information Services  

 Data Products. The data business in the U.S. includes both proprietary and consolidated data products. Proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange’s systems. Consolidated data products are distributed by SEC-mandated consolidators (one for NASDAQ-listed stocks and another for NYSE and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. In Europe, all data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. Competition in the data business is intense and is influenced by rapidly changing technology and the creation of new product and service offerings.  

 The sale of our proprietary data products in both the U.S. and Europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products. Our data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. Some of our major competitors for proprietary data products are ICE, BATS, ICAP and S&P Dow Jones.   

 The consolidated data business is under competitive pressure from other securities exchanges that trade NASDAQ-listed securities. Current SEC regulations permit these regional exchanges and FINRA’s Alternative Display Facility to quote and trade NASDAQ-listed securities. The UTP Plan entitles these exchanges, FINRA’s Alternative Display Facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of UTP Plan tape fees, based on the formula required by Regulation NMS that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, The NASDAQ Stock Market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on NYSE and NYSE MKT-listed securities for those respective tape plans. In recent years, the operations of the consolidated tape plans have received heightened scrutiny from the industry, regulators and policy makers, including calls for competing tape plans.  

 Index Licensing and Services. Our index licensing and services business faces competition from indexes created by a large number of providers. For example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the NASDAQ-100 Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index. We face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs.   

 Technology Solutions  

 Corporate Solutions. The landscape of corporate solutions competitors is varied and highly fragmented. In the investor relations sector, there are many regional competitors with few global providers. However, other exchanges have recently begun to partner or buy assets in order to provide investor relations services to customers alongside their core listing services. The competitive landscape for public relations services includes large providers of traditional wire services, full-service providers that span distribution and   

 9  

 Table Of Contents   

targeting, monitoring and analytics, and a large number of regional or niche providers. In multimedia and webcasting, competition is highly fragmented and served by a number of firms who address various needs for enterprise buyers and typically offer managed or self-service capabilities. In governance and secure collaboration, the competitive landscape is bifurcated with few competitors who serve corporate boards and deal teams. We believe customers are increasingly looking for single source providers who can address a broad range of needs within a single platform. Some of the competitors to the corporate solutions business include Ipreo, Cision, PR Newswire, Business Wire, ON24, BoardVantage, Diligent, Intralinks and Merrill Datasite.  

 Market Technology. The traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally sometimes aided by consultants, is evolving as many operators recognize the cost savings made possible by buying technology already developed. Two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including ICE and LSE, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. These organizations offer a range of off-the-shelf technology including trading, clearing, market surveillance, settlement, depository and information dissemination. They also offer customization and operation expertise. In the market for governance, risk and compliance solutions, there is a wide range of providers addressing the market. Often, solutions are part of larger suites, such as those related to IT management or general business management. The market needs are evolving rapidly, which makes continuous investment a necessity to stay relevant.  

 Regulation   

 We are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and Europe.   

 U.S. Regulation   

 U.S. federal securities laws establish a system of cooperative regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. Self-regulatory organizations, or SROs, conduct the day-to-day administration and regulation of the nation’s securities markets under the close supervision of, and subject to extensive regulation, oversight and enforcement by, the SEC. SROs, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the SEC.  

 This regulatory framework applies to our U.S. business in the following ways:   

 •regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and   

 •regulation of our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries.   

 The rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. Accordingly, our board of directors, officers, and employees must give due regard to the preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of each of our SROs and to their obligations to investors and the general public, and may not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of decisions by the boards of directors of any of our SROs relating to their regulatory functions, or that would interfere with the ability of any of our SROs to carry out their responsibilities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act. Although the rules and regulations that apply to our business are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. U.S. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change.   

 National Securities Exchanges. SROs in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Exchange Act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. The Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, as well as each SRO’s own rules, impose on the SROs many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. Before it may permit the registration of a national securities exchange as an SRO, the SEC must determine, among other things, that the exchange has a set of rules that is consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Moreover, an SRO is responsible for enforcing compliance by its members, and persons associated with its members, with the provisions of the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the SRO, including rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members.   

 Nasdaq currently operates three cash equity and three options markets in the United States. We operate The NASDAQ Stock Market and The NASDAQ Options Market pursuant to The NASDAQ Stock Market’s SRO license; Nasdaq BX and Nasdaq BX Options pursuant to Nasdaq BX’s SRO license; and Nasdaq PSX and the Nasdaq PHLX options market pursuant to Nasdaq PHLX’s SRO license. As SROs, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. Broker-dealers that choose to become members of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq PHLX, and/or Nasdaq BX are subject to the rules of those exchanges.  

 All of our U.S. national securities exchanges are subject to SEC oversight, as prescribed by the Exchange Act, including periodic and special examinations by the SEC. Our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the SEC or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. We also are subject to Section 17 of the Exchange Act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the SEC for examination. We have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the SEC or external auditors in the ordinary course, and we have been and may in the future be subject to SEC enforcement proceedings. To the extent such actions or reviews and inspections   

 10  

 Table Of Contents   

result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business.   

 Section 19 of the Exchange Act provides that our exchanges must submit to the SEC proposed changes to any of the SROs’ rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute SRO rules. The SEC will typically publish such proposed changes for public comment, following which the SEC may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. SEC approval requires a finding by the SEC that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, our exchanges must file with the SEC, among other things, all proposals to change their pricing structure.   

 Pursuant to regulatory services agreements between FINRA and our SROs, FINRA provides certain regulatory services to the markets operated or regulated by The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq PHLX and Nasdaq BX, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. Nevertheless, we have a direct regulatory role in conducting certain real-time market monitoring, certain equity surveillance not involving cross-market activity, most options surveillance, most rulemaking and some membership functions through our MarketWatch department. We refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff to FINRA for further investigation. Our SROs retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under regulatory agreements by FINRA, and for fulfilling all regulatory obligations for which FINRA does not have responsibility under the regulatory services agreements.  

 In addition to its other SRO responsibilities, The NASDAQ Stock Market, as a listing market, also is responsible for overseeing each listed company’s compliance with NASDAQ’s financial and corporate governance standards. Our Listing Qualifications department evaluates applications submitted by issuers interested in listing their securities on NASDAQ to determine whether the quantitative and qualitative listing standards have been satisfied. Once securities are listed, the Listing Qualifications department monitors each issuer’s on-going compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing standards.  

 Broker-dealer regulation. Nasdaq’s broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC, the SROs and the various state securities regulators. Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC, or Nasdaq Execution Services, currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from Nasdaq’s U.S. cash equity and options exchanges to other venues for execution. In June 2013, Execution Access LLC, or Execution Access, a previously inactive broker-dealer and indirect subsidiary of Nasdaq, was repurposed and approved by FINRA to operate as the broker-dealer for our fixed income business, including eSpeed’s electronic trading platform for U.S. Treasuries. NPM Securities, LLC, or NPM Securities, operates an ATS involving primary and secondary transactions in unregistered securities (i.e., securities not listed on a registered securities exchange and not registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act), including acting as the buyer’s and seller’s agent to facilitate private placement transactions on the ATS. Finally, NASDAQ Options Services, LLC, which previously served as the routing broker for our U.S. options exchanges, became non-operational and terminated its exchange and clearinghouse memberships in March 2014, although it is still subject to certain regulatory requirements.  

 Nasdaq Execution Services is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is also a member of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq BX, Nasdaq PHLX, BATS-Y Exchange, BATS-Z Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange, EDGA Exchange, EDGX Exchange, FINRA, NYSE, NYSE MKT and NYSE Arca.   

 Execution Access is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in 22 states and the U.S. Virgin Islands based on business requirements. Additionally, Execution Access is a FINRA member organization. Execution Access operates a transparent central limit order book known as eSpeed to trade in U.S. Treasury securities. Execution Access is an introducing broker for trades matched on the eSpeed trading platform. The trades, once matched, are submitted to our fully disclosed clearing broker for clearance and settlement.   

 NPM Securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in 2 states based on business requirements. Additionally, NPM Securities is a FINRA member organization. NPM Securities does not hold funds or securities. Funds may be delivered by the buyer to the issuer directly or wired into an escrow account, depending on the requirements of the offering. The issuer or its transfer agent (or other corporate recordkeeper) will provide the buyer with a stock certificate in either physical or book entry form.  

 The SEC, FINRA and the exchanges adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. The SEC, SROs and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. The SEC and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. The SEC and SRO rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer’s business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers’ purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. All broker-dealers have an SRO that is assigned by the SEC as the broker-dealer’s designated examining authority, or DEA. The DEA is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the SEC’s financial responsibility rules. FINRA is the current DEA for Nasdaq Execution Services, Execution Access and NPM Securities.   

 11  

 Table Of Contents   

As registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services, Execution Access and NPM Securities are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. The SEC and FINRA impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule and FINRA rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC and FINRA for certain withdrawals of capital.   

 As of December 31, 2014, NASDAQ Execution Services, Execution Access and NPM Securities were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements.   

 Regulatory contractual relationships with FINRA. The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq PHLX and Nasdaq BX have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services FINRA provides to the respective SROs. Under these agreements, FINRA personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and FINRA bills us a fee for these services. These agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. However, our SROs retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by FINRA.   

 Exchange Act Rule 17d-2 permits SROs to enter into agreements, commonly called Rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the SEC with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. Our SROs have entered into several such agreements under which FINRA assumes regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement, including:   

 •agreements with FINRA covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq BX and the members of these exchanges;   

 •joint industry agreements with FINRA covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules;   

 •joint industry agreement with FINRA covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and   

 •joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices.   

 Regulation NMS and Options Intermarket Linkage Plan. We are subject to Regulation NMS for our cash equity markets, and our options markets have joined the Options Intermarket Linkage Plan. These are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the Exchange Act. One of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors’ orders at the best market price. Both Regulation NMS and the Options Intermarket Linkage Plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order.   

 In addition, Regulation NMS requires that every national securities exchange on which an NMS stock is traded and every national securities association act jointly pursuant to one or more national market system plans to disseminate consolidated information, including a national best bid and national best offer, on quotations for transactions in NMS stocks, and that such plan or plans provide for the dissemination of all consolidated information for an individual NMS stock through a single plan processor. The UTP Plan was filed with and approved by the SEC as a national market system plan in accordance with the Exchange Act and Regulation NMS to provide for the collection, consolidation and dissemination of such information for NASDAQ-listed securities. NASDAQ serves as the processor and administrator for the UTP Plan. As the processor, NASDAQ performs and discharges regulatory functions and responsibilities that are necessary for the members of the UTP Plan to discharge the regulatory functions related to the operation of a national market system that have been delegated to them under the Exchange Act and Regulation NMS. To fulfill its obligations as the processor, NASDAQ has designed, implemented, maintained, and operated a data processing and communications system, hardware, and software and communications infrastructure to provide processing for the UTP Plan.   

 CFTC Regulation. We also operate NASDAQ Futures, Inc., or NFX, a designated contract market under the Commodity Exchange Act that is subject to regulatory oversight by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and options markets in the U.S. NFX is anticipated to resume trading operations in 2015.   

 The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, also has resulted in increased CFTC regulation of our use of certain regulated derivatives products, as well as the operations of some of our subsidiaries outside the United States and their customers.   

 European Regulation   

 Regulation of our markets in the European Union and European Economic Area focuses on issues relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities and market abuse. At the end of 2012, EMIR, a new regulation relating to CCP services and OTC   

 12  

 Table Of Contents   

derivatives transactions was adopted. As a consequence of EMIR, Nasdaq Nordic Clearing, like other European CCPs, applied to reauthorize its CCP operations. Nasdaq Nordic Clearing was the first European CCP to be authorized as EMIR compliant when the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, or SFSA, approved its application as a CCP under EMIR on March 18, 2014.   

 MiFID II and MiFIR came into force in 2014. These regulations will primarily affect our European trading businesses as they are implemented over the next few years. Many of the provisions of MiFID II and MiFIR will be implemented through technical standards to be drafted by the European Securities and Markets Authority, or ESMA, and approved by the European Commission. Implementation is ongoing and both MiFID II and MiFIR will apply to the European Union member states by January 2017. As the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading.   

 The entities that operate trading venues in the Nordic and Baltic countries are each subject to local regulation. In Sweden, general supervision of the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange is carried out by the SFSA, while Nasdaq Nordic Clearing’s role as CCP in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the SFSA and the Swedish central bank (Riksbanken). Additionally, as a function of the Swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division.   

 Nasdaq Stockholm’s exchange activities are regulated primarily by the Swedish Securities Markets Act 2007:528, or SSMA, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange licenses are issued. The SSMA also provides that any changes to the exchange’s articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the SFSA. Nasdaq Nordic Clearing holds the license as a CCP.  

 With respect to ongoing operations, the SSMA requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. When operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange’s rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). Additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners’ interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. Similar requirements are set up by the SSMA and EMIR in relation to clearing operations.   

 The SSMA also contains the framework for both the SFSA’s supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. The latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have “an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange’s obligations.” That requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities.   

 The regulatory environment in the other Nordic and Baltic countries in which a Nasdaq entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in Sweden. Since 2005, there has been cooperation between the SFSA and the main supervisory authorities in Iceland, Norway, Denmark and Finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising Nasdaq Nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach.   

 Confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. Nasdaq Nordic carries out market surveillance through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. The surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). The real-time trading surveillance for the Finnish, Icelandic, Danish and Swedish markets has been centralized to Stockholm. In addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three Baltic exchanges and at NASDAQ OMX Oslo ASA with respect to the trading of commodities derivatives. In Sweden and Finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of each exchange.   

 If there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. Serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in Sweden and Finland. In Denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. In Iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. Suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries.   

 13  

 Table Of Contents   

Employees   

 As of December 31, 2014, Nasdaq had 3,687 employees, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest.   

 Nasdaq Website and Availability of SEC Filings   

 We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (such as us). The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov.   

 Our website is www.nasdaqomx.com. Information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K. We will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q and Forms 8-K and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to Nasdaq’s website and click on “Investor Relations,” then under “Financial Information” click on “SEC Filings.”   

 We use our website, www.nasdaqomx.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD.   

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.