Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities as well as derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. We sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt.

Foreign Currency Risk

We are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. These risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location’s functional currency. Our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. The fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $13.5 million and a liability of $36.4 million at September 30, 2017. We enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy.

We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. In 2017 and 2016, the relative strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our sales and results of operations. While future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to 2017 levels.

Certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. For such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $21.4 million.

We record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. The use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on these contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. For derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. We recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative’s change in fair value in earnings immediately. There was no impact on earnings due to ineffective hedges in 2017 or 2016. A hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with the hedged exposures and related contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations.

Interest Rate Risk

In addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. We are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations.

Our short-term debt obligations are primarily comprised of commercial paper borrowings. Commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $350.0 million at September 30, 2017, with a weighted average interest rate of 1.26 percent and weighted average maturity period of 10 days. Commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $448.6 million at September 30, 2016, with a weighted average interest rate of 0.57 percent and weighted average maturity period of 35 days. We have issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations as needed. Changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. A hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our short-term debt would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition.

We had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with a carrying value of $1,243.4 million at September 30, 2017 and $1,516.3 million at September 30, 2016. The fair value of this debt was $1,452.6 million at September 30, 2017 and $1,780.5 million at September 30, 2016. The potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in market interest rates would not be significant to the overall fair value of our long-term debt. We currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners’ equity.

In February 2015, we entered into interest rate swap contracts, which we designated as fair value hedges. These interest rate swaps effectively converted the $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.050 percent notes payable in March 2020 (2020 Notes) and 2.875 percent notes payable in March 2025 (2025 Notes) to floating rate debt, each at a rate based on three-month LIBOR plus a fixed spread. The effective floating interest rates were 1.755 percent for the 2020 Notes and 2.165 percent for the 2025 Notes at September 30, 2017. The fair value of our interest rate swap contracts at September 30, 2017 was a net unrealized loss of $4.6 million. A hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our interest rate swaps would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition.

36
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data