ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Introduction

This MD&A is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our recent performance, financial condition and prospects. The following will be discussed and analyzed:

•Overview of Business

•Overview of 2012 Results

•Results of Operations and Related Information

•Unaudited Quarterly Data

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Variable Interest Entities

•Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

•Legal Matters

•New Accounting Standards

•Business Outlook

•Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted. 

Overview of Business

We are a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life, with manufacturing facilities in 37 countries and products sold in more than 175 countries. Our products are sold under well-known brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend. We have four reportable global business segments: Personal Care, Consumer Tissue, K‑C Professional ("KCP") and Health Care. These global business segments are described in greater detail in Item 8, Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In operating our global business, we seek to:

•manage our portfolio to balance growth, margin and cash flow, 

•invest in our brands, innovation and growth initiatives, 

•deliver sustainable cost reductions, and 

•provide disciplined capital management to improve return on invested capital and return cash to shareholders. 

Key strategies for our segments include: 

•We plan to grow our strong positions in personal care by leveraging our brands and providing innovations. 

•For consumer tissue, we seek to bring differentiated, value-added innovations to grow and strengthen our brands while focusing on net realized revenue, improving mix and reducing costs. 

•We plan to continue to shift our mix to faster-growing, higher-margin segments within KCP and Health Care, including safety and wiping in KCP and medical devices in Health Care. 

We plan to drive growth throughout K‑C International ("KCI"), which includes our businesses in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa, with a particular emphasis in China, Russia and Latin America. Our goals for KCI include seeking targeted expansion and growth, taking advantage of attractive market opportunities and deploying our strong brands and innovation capabilities.

12KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

Highlights for 2012 include the following:

•We executed our growth strategies in KCI with a focus on markets in China, Russia and Latin America. Net sales in KCI grew mid-single digits in 2012, including a 10 percent increase before taking into account the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. KCI accounted for 37 percent of company net sales in 2012, up from 36 percent in the previous year.

•In North America, we launched a number of new or improved products, including super-premium Depend briefs, New U by Kotex tampons and pads and a number of new products in KCP. In KCI, we launched diaper pants, premium feminine care products and adult care offerings in several markets. These innovations are examples of our translation of consumer insights into solutions that generate growth. Our innovations and supporting marketing programs helped improve our brands' market positions. In the U.S., we improved or maintained market share in 6 of 8 of our consumer categories. We also increased our market share in a number of businesses in KCI.

•We continued to support innovations and growth initiatives with increased spending in strategic marketing of $115 in 2012 over the previous year, and increased research and development spending at a double digit rate. To help fund those investments, we are generating cost savings through several initiatives, including leveraging our global procurement organization and deploying lean principles throughout our company. Full-year cost savings from our ongoing program in 2012 were $295.

•In 2012, we approved strategic changes related to our Western and Central European consumer and professional businesses to focus our resources and investments on stronger market positions and growth opportunities. We will exit the diaper category in that region, with the exception of the Italian market, and divest or exit some lower-margin businesses, mostly in consumer tissue, in certain markets. Restructuring actions related to the strategic changes will involve the sale or closure of five of our European manufacturing facilities and streamlining our administrative organization. The restructuring actions commenced in the fourth quarter of 2012 and are expected to be completed by December 31, 2014. See additional information in Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

•In 2011, we initiated a pulp and tissue restructuring to exit our remaining integrated pulp manufacturing operations and improve the underlying profitability and return on invested capital of our consumer tissue and KCP businesses. In 2012, we decided to streamline an additional facility in North America to further enhance the profitability of the consumer tissue business. These restructuring actions were substantially completed as of December 31, 2012, including the pending sale of a manufacturing facility that is expected to close in the first half of 2013. See additional information in Item 8, Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

•We continued to focus on generating cash flow and allocating capital to shareholders. In 2012, we generated $3.3 billion in cash provided by operations, up 44 percent from the prior year. We repurchased $1.3 billion of Kimberly‑Clark common stock in 2012, and expect to repurchase $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion of our common stock in 2013, subject to market conditions. In addition, we raised our dividend in 2012 by 6 percent, the 40th consecutive annual increase in our dividend. Altogether, share repurchases and dividends in 2012 amounted to $2.5 billion.

We are subject to risks and uncertainties, which can affect our business operations and financial results. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K for additional information.

Overview of 2012 Results

•Net sales increased 1 percent due to increases in net selling prices and volumes, partially offset by unfavorable currency effects. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

13KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Results of Operations and Related Information

This section presents a discussion and analysis of net sales, operating profit and other information relevant to an understanding of 2012 results of operations. This discussion and analysis compares 2012 results to 2011, and 2011 results to 2010.

Analysis of Net Sales

By Business Segment

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

By Geographic Area

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Commentary:

2012 versus 2011 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

14KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

•Personal care net sales in North America increased 2 percent. Net selling prices rose 3 percent, driven by improved revenue realization for Huggies diapers and baby wipes. Overall volumes were down 1 percent as infant care volumes decreased mid-single digits, primarily reflecting category declines. This decrease was mostly offset by improvements in adult care volumes of mid-single digits and feminine care of low-single digits, primarily due to innovations in Depend and U by Kotex brands.

In KCI, personal care net sales increased 8 percent despite a 5 percent decrease from unfavorable changes in currency rates. Sales volumes were up 9 percent, with high-single digit to low-double digit growth in each major region. Volume performance was strong in a number of markets, including Brazil, China, Russia, South Africa, South Korea, Vietnam and Venezuela. Overall net selling prices improved 3 percent compared to the year-ago period, driven by increases in Latin America. 

In Europe, personal care net sales increased 2 percent, despite an unfavorable currency impact of 6 percent. Sales volumes rose 10 percent, mostly due to growth in non-branded offerings, Huggies baby wipes and child care offerings. 

•Consumer tissue net sales in North America were down 3 percent compared to the prior year, including a 5 percent decrease from lost sales in conjunction with pulp and tissue restructuring actions. Organic sales volumes (i.e., sales volume impacts other than lost sales from restructuring actions) were essentially flat with 2011, as gains in paper towels were offset by lower volumes in facial tissue. Overall net selling prices increased 3 percent and changes in product mix reduced net sales 1 percent. 

Consumer tissue net sales decreased 1 percent in KCI. Currency rates were unfavorable by 4 percent and lost sales in conjunction with pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced sales volumes by 1 percent. Net selling prices increased 3 percent and changes in product mix increased net sales by 1 percent. These benefits were partially offset by decreases in organic sales volumes of 1 percent.

In Europe, consumer tissue net sales decreased 8 percent, including an unfavorable currency impact of 5 percent. Changes in product mix, net selling prices and volumes each decreased net sales by 1 percent. 

•Net sales of KCP products in North America were essentially even with the prior year. Although washroom product volumes increased, these gains were offset by lower volumes in other areas, including safety products and wipers. 

KCP net sales increased 5 percent in KCI, despite a 4 percent decrease from unfavorable changes in currency rates. Sales volumes increased 6 percent, driven by double-digit growth in Latin America, and net selling prices rose 3 percent. 

In Europe, KCP net sales decreased 9 percent. Currency rates were unfavorable by 6 percent and lost sales in conjunction with pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced sales volumes by 4 percent. Organic sales volumes were essentially flat with 2011 and net selling prices increased 1 percent. 

•Net sales of health care products increased 1 percent as sales volumes increased 2 percent and unfavorable currency effects reduced net sales by 1 percent. Medical device volumes increased 3 percent and surgical and infection prevention volumes increased 2 percent. 

Commentary:

2011 versus 2010 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Personal care net sales in North America decreased about 2 percent due to lower net selling prices and unfavorable product mix of 2 percent and 1 percent, respectively, partially offset by favorable currency effects. Volumes were essentially flat as 

15KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

improvements in Huggies baby wipes, adult incontinence products and feminine care, including benefits from product innovation in the Poise, Depend and U by Kotex brands, were mostly offset by lower sales of Huggies diapers and Pull-Ups training pants. 

In Europe, personal care net sales increased about 4 percent due to favorable currency effects of 5 percent and increases in sales volumes of 2 percent, partially offset by lower net selling prices of 2 percent.

In KCI, personal care net sales increased about 14 percent, driven by increases in sales volumes of 5 percent, higher net selling prices of 5 percent, primarily in Latin America, and favorable currency effects of 5 percent. The growth in sales volumes was broad-based, with particular strength in South Korea, China and Latin America, excluding Venezuela.

•Consumer tissue net sales in North America increased 2 percent due to higher net selling prices of 2 percent, partially offset by a sales volume decline of about 1 percent. Sales volumes were up high single-digits in paper towels but were more than offset by low single-digits decreases in both bath and facial tissue.

In Europe, consumer tissue net sales increased 5 percent due to favorable currency effects of 6 percent, partially offset by a 1 percent decrease in sales volumes.

In KCI, consumer tissue net sales increased 8 percent due to higher net selling prices of 7 percent, primarily in Latin America, favorable currency effects of 5 percent and improvements in product mix of 2 percent, partially offset by a decrease in sales volumes of 6 percent. Sales volumes were negatively impacted by revenue realization strategies and lost sales from a divestiture of a non-core business in Latin America and exiting non-strategic products in conjunction with the pulp and tissue restructuring actions. 

•KCP's net sales in North America increased 3 percent due to higher net selling prices of 2 percent and an increase in sales volumes of 1 percent driven by the safety and wiper categories, while washroom product volumes declined in a continued challenging economic environment. In Europe, sales of KCP products increased 7 percent due to favorable currency effects of 6 percent and increased sales volumes of about 2 percent. Net sales in KCI of KCP products increased 14 percent due to favorable currency effects of 6 percent, higher sales volumes of 5 percent and higher net selling prices of 3 percent.

•Higher sales volumes for health care products were driven by increases in exam gloves and medical devices. 

Analysis of Operating Profit

By Business Segment

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

16KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

By Geographic Area 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Charges related to European strategic changes of $299 in 2012 and pulp and tissue restructuring charges of $134 and $413 in 2012 and 2011, respectively, are included in Corporate & Other. Additionally, a non-deductible business tax charge of $32 related to a law change in Colombia is included in Corporate & Other in 2011. See Item 8, Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In 2010, Other (income) and expense, net includes a $79 charge and Corporate & Other includes a $19 charge related to the adoption of highly inflationary accounting in Venezuela. 

Commentary:

2012 versus 2011  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes inflation/deflation in raw materials, energy and distribution costs.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated operating profit increased $244 compared to the prior year. Operating profit benefited from increases in net sales, cost savings of $295 and deflation in input costs of $90. These benefits were partially offset by increased marketing, research and general expenses, including $115 in higher strategic marketing spending. Administrative and research spending also increased, in part to build further capabilities and support future growth. Foreign currency translation effects reduced operating profit by $55 as a result of the weakening of several currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. A lower level of income in other (income) expense, net adversely impacted the operating profit comparison by $45.

•Operating profit for the personal care segment increased due to higher net sales and cost savings, partially offset by inflation in input costs, increases in marketing, research and general expenses and manufacturing costs and unfavorable currency effects. In North America, operating profit increased as higher net sales, cost savings and deflation in input costs were partially offset by increased marketing, research and general expenses. Operating profit in KCI increased due to higher net sales and cost savings, partially offset by increases in marketing, research and general expenses and manufacturing costs, inflation in input costs and unfavorable currency effects. In Europe, operating profit increased primarily due to cost savings. 

•Consumer tissue segment operating profit increased due to higher net selling prices, cost savings and deflation in input costs, partially offset by increased marketing, research and general expenses and lower sales volumes. Operating profit in North America increased due to deflation in input costs, cost savings and higher net selling prices, partially offset 

17KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

by the impact of lower sales volumes and increases in marketing, research and general expenses. Operating profit in KCI increased as higher net selling prices and cost savings were partially offset by increased marketing, research and general expenses and unfavorable currency effects. In Europe, operating profit decreased due to higher marketing, research and general expenses, lower net sales and the negative impact of lower production volumes, partially offset by cost savings and deflation in input costs.

•Operating profit for KCP increased due to higher sales volumes and net selling prices, cost savings and deflation in input costs, partially offset by increased marketing, research and general expenses, unfavorable currency effects and increased manufacturing costs.

•Operating profit for the health care segment increased as higher net sales, deflation in input costs and lower marketing, research and general expenses were partially offset by increased manufacturing costs. 

European Strategic Changes

On October 23, 2012, we approved strategic changes related to our Western and Central European consumer and professional businesses to focus our resources and investments on stronger market positions and growth opportunities. We will be exiting the diaper category in that region, with the exception of the Italian market, and divesting or exiting some lower-margin businesses, mostly in consumer tissue, in certain markets. The changes will primarily affect our consumer businesses, with a modest impact on KCP. The businesses that will be exited or divested generate annual net sales of approximately $500 and negligible operating profit. 

Restructuring actions related to the strategic changes will involve the sale or closure of five of our European manufacturing facilities and a streamlining of our administrative organization. In total, these actions will result in reducing our European workforce by approximately 1,300 to 1,500 positions. 

The restructuring actions commenced in the fourth quarter of 2012 and are expected to be completed by December 31, 2014. The restructuring is expected to result in cumulative charges of approximately $250 to $350 after tax ($300 to $400 pre-tax) over that period. Cash costs related to severance and other expenses are expected to account for approximately 50 to 60 percent of the charges. Noncash charges will consist primarily of asset impairment charges and incremental depreciation.

During 2012, $299 of pre-tax charges were recognized for the strategic changes, including $250 recorded in Cost of products sold and $49 recorded in Marketing, research and general expenses. A related benefit of $57 was recorded in Provision for income taxes. On a segment basis, $66, $213 and $20 of the charges were related to consumer tissue, personal care and KCP, respectively. Non-cash charges totaled $165 in 2012, and $4 of the $134 cash charges recorded in 2012 have been paid as of December 31, 2012.

For additional information on the European strategic changes, see Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Pulp and Tissue Restructuring Actions

In 2011, we initiated a pulp and tissue restructuring plan in order to exit our remaining integrated pulp manufacturing operations and improve the underlying profitability and return on invested capital of our consumer tissue and KCP businesses. The restructuring involved the streamlining, sale or closure of six of our manufacturing facilities around the world. In conjunction with these actions, we have exited certain non-strategic products, primarily non-branded offerings, and transferred some production to lower-cost facilities in order to improve overall profitability and returns. In 2012, we announced our decision to streamline an additional manufacturing facility in North America to further enhance the profitability of our consumer tissue business. Both restructuring actions were substantially complete as of December 31, 2012, including the pending sale of one facility expected to close in the first half of 2013.

As a result of the restructuring activities, versus the 2010 baseline, we expect that by 2013 annual net sales will decrease by $250 to $300, and operating profit will increase by at least $75 in 2013 and at least $100 in 2014. Through December 31, 2012, we have recognized cumulative operating profit benefits of $60 from the restructuring actions. 

During 2012, $135 of charges were recognized for the restructuring actions, including $128 recorded in Cost of products sold, $6 recorded in Marketing, research and general expenses, and $1 recorded in Other (income) and expense, net. A related benefit of $49 was recorded in Provision for income taxes. On a segment basis, $125 and $9 of the charges were related to consumer tissue 

18KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

and KCP, respectively. On a geographic basis, $97 of the charges were recorded in North America, $35 in Australia, and $3 elsewhere. 

Non-cash charges of $44 were recorded in 2012. Cash payments of $91 were made in 2012.

For additional information on the pulp and tissue restructuring actions, see Item 8, Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other (income) and expense, net

Other (income) and expense, net for 2012 includes $19 in asset impairment charges, as well as currency transaction gains of $14. In 2011, other (income) and expense, net includes gains from the divestiture of a small non-core business in Latin America and the sale of a venture investment in a health care start-up company, as well as currency transaction gains of $27.

Commentary:

2011 versus 2010 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes inflation/deflation in raw materials, energy and distribution costs.

(b)Consolidated includes the effect of the 2011 pulp and tissue restructuring charges and a non-deductible business tax charge related to a law change in Colombia, as well as the impact of the 2010 charge related to the adoption of highly inflationary accounting in Venezuela.

Consolidated operating profit decreased $331 compared to the prior year. The benefits of increases in net sales and cost savings of $265 were more than offset by charges of $415 related to the pulp and tissue restructuring, inflation in key cost inputs of $580 and the negative effect of lower production volumes. Comparisons were also impacted by the effect of a $98 charge related to the adoption of highly inflationary accounting in Venezuela in 2010. 

•Operating profit for the personal care segment decreased due to inflation in key cost inputs and the negative effect of lower production volumes, partially offset by increases in net sales and cost savings. In North America, operating profit decreased due to inflation in key cost inputs, lower net sales and the negative effects of lower production volumes, partially offset by lower marketing, research and general expenses. In Europe, operating profit decreased due to inflation in key cost inputs, partially offset by cost savings, higher net sales and lower marketing, research and general expenses. Operating profit in KCI increased due to higher net sales, cost savings and favorable currency effects, partially offset by inflation in key cost inputs and increases in marketing, research and general expenses.

•Consumer tissue segment operating profit increased due to increases in net sales, cost savings and lower marketing, research and general expenses, partially offset by inflation in key cost inputs and the negative effect of lower production volumes. Operating profit in North America increased as higher net sales, cost savings and lower marketing, research and general expenses were partially offset by inflation in key cost inputs. In Europe, operating profit decreased as favorable currency effects, cost savings and lower general expenses were more than offset by inflation in key cost inputs. Operating profit in KCI increased as higher net sales and favorable currency effects were partially offset by the negative effect of production volumes and inflation in key cost inputs. 

•Operating profit for KCP increased due to higher net sales, cost savings and favorable currency effects, partially offset by inflation in key cost inputs and increased marketing, research and general expenses.

•Operating profit for the health care segment increased as higher net sales, cost savings and lower marketing, research and general expenses, primarily due to a lower level of litigation expenses, were partially offset by inflation in key cost inputs. 

19KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

Other (income) and expense, net

Other (income) and expense, net for 2011 includes gains from the divestiture of a small non-core business in Latin America and the sale of a venture investment in a health care start-up company, as well as currency transaction gains of $27. Other (income) and expense, net for 2010 includes a $79 charge related to the adoption of highly inflationary accounting in Venezuela and currency transaction losses of $20.

Additional Income Statement Commentary

2012 versus 2011 

•Our effective income tax rate in 2012 was 31.7 percent compared to 30.2 percent in 2011. The increase was primarily due to the tax impact related to the charges for the European strategic changes, partially offset by favorable audit resolutions.

•Our share of net income of equity companies increased by $15 primarily due to higher earnings at Kimberly‑Clark de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. ("KCM"). KCM's net sales grew 3 percent due to increased sales volumes of 6 percent, higher net selling prices of 3 percent and a slight improvement in product mix, partially offset by unfavorable currency effects of 7 percent. Results were also impacted by higher marketing, research and general expenses, cost savings and deflation in input costs. 

•Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $15 primarily due to the redemption in 2011 of certain redeemable preferred securities. See Item 8, Note 8 for information on these securities and their redemption.

2011 versus 2010

•Interest expense increased in 2011 over 2010 due to a higher average level of debt. 

•Our effective income tax rate was 30.2 percent for 2011 compared with 30.9 percent for 2010. The decrease was primarily due to the timing of tax initiatives.

•Our share of net income of equity companies decreased by $20 primarily due to lower earnings at KCM. KCM's net sales grew 4 percent due to a 2 percent benefit from the peso strengthening against the U.S. dollar, increased sales volumes of 1 percent, and a 1 percent impact from the combination of higher net selling prices and improvements in product mix. However, benefits from the increase in net sales were more than offset by inflation in key cost inputs, the negative effect of lower production volumes and increases in marketing expense.

•The average number of common shares outstanding declined in 2011 as compared to 2010 due to share repurchases.

20KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

Unaudited Quarterly Data

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Results include charges related to the strategic changes in Western and Central Europe in 2012 and charges related to the pulp and tissue restructuring actions in 2012 and 2011. See Item 8, Notes 2 and 3 for more information. Additionally, 2011 includes a non-deductible business tax charge related to a law change in Colombia. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Provided by Operations Commentary:

Cash provided by operations was $3.3 billion in 2012 compared to $2.3 billion in 2011, with the increase primarily due to higher earnings, improved working capital and lower defined benefit pension contributions ($110 in 2012 versus $679 in 2011).

Obligations Commentary:

The following table presents our total contractual obligations for which cash flows are fixed or determinable. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Projected interest payments for variable-rate debt were calculated based on the outstanding principal amounts and prevailing market rates as of December 31, 2012.

•Returns on redeemable preferred securities reflect required return payments through the next potential redemption date.

•The unconditional purchase obligations are for the purchase of raw materials, primarily pulp, and utilities. Although we are primarily liable for payments on the above operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations, based on historic operating performance and forecasted future cash flows, we believe exposure to losses, if any, under these arrangements is not material.

21KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

•The open purchase orders displayed in the table represent amounts for goods and services we have negotiated for delivery.

The table does not include amounts where payments are discretionary or the timing is uncertain. The following payments are not included in the table:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Accrued income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, deferred taxes and noncontrolling interests. 

•In the event the holder of the redeemable preferred securities elects to redeem them at the next redemption election date, we would be required to repay approximately $500 in December 2014. 

Investing Commentary:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financing Commentary:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We maintain a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, scheduled to expire in October 2016, as well as the option to increase this facility by an additional $500. This facility, currently unused, supports our commercial paper program and would provide liquidity in the event our access to the commercial paper markets is unavailable for any reason. We had an additional $500 facility that expired pursuant to its terms in October 2012.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales of K‑C Venezuela represented 2 percent of Consolidated Net Sales for the year ended December 31, 2012, and 1 percent of Consolidated Net Sales in 2011 and 2010. In 2012 and 2011, K‑C Venezuela represented 4 percent 

22KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

of Consolidated Operating Profit. In 2010, Operating Profit at our Venezuelan subsidiary was negative due to the charge recorded as a result of adopting highly inflationary accounting.

Management believes that our ability to generate cash from operations and our capacity to issue short-term and long-term debt are adequate to fund working capital, capital spending, payment of dividends, pension plan contributions and other needs for the foreseeable future. Further, we do not expect restrictions or taxes on repatriation of cash held outside of the United States to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations for the foreseeable future.

Variable Interest Entities

We have interests in the financing entities discussed in Item 8, Notes 5 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. The critical accounting policies we used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. The critical judgments by management relate to accruals for sales incentives and trade promotion allowances, pension and other postretirement benefits, future cash flows associated with impairment testing for goodwill and long-lived assets and deferred income taxes and potential income tax assessments. These critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Sales Incentives and Trade Promotion Allowances

Among those factors affecting the accruals for promotions are estimates of the number of consumer coupons that will be redeemed and the type and number of activities within promotional programs between us and our trade customers. Generally, the estimates for consumer coupon costs are based on historical patterns of coupon redemption, influenced by judgments about current market conditions such as competitive activity in specific product categories. Estimates of trade promotion liabilities for promotional program costs incurred, but unpaid, are generally based on estimates of the quantity of customer sales, timing of promotional activities and forecasted costs for activities within the promotional programs. Trade promotion programs include introductory marketing funds such as slotting fees, cooperative marketing programs, temporary price reductions, favorable end-of-aisle or in-store product displays and other activities conducted by our customers to promote our products. Promotion accruals as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $319 and $339, respectively. Rebate accruals are based on estimates of the quantity of products expected to be sold to specific customers, and were $340 and $344 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Employee Postretirement Benefits

Pension Plans

We have defined benefit pension plans in North America and the United Kingdom (the "Principal Plans") and/or defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all regular employees. Certain other subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans or, in certain countries, termination pay plans covering substantially all regular employees. The funding policy for the qualified defined benefit plans in North America and the defined benefit plans in the United Kingdom is to contribute assets at least equal to regulatory minimum requirements. Funding for the remaining defined benefit plans outside the U.S. is based on legal requirements, tax considerations, investment opportunities, and customary business practices in these countries. Nonqualified U.S. plans providing pension benefits in excess of limitations imposed by the U.S. income tax code are not funded.

Consolidated pension expense for defined benefit pension plans was $122 in 2012 compared with $119 for 2011. Pension expense is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions applied to each of the defined benefit plans. The weighted-average expected long-term rate of return on pension fund assets used to calculate pension expense was 6.49 percent in 2012 compared with 7.14 percent in 2011 and will be 6.26 percent in 2013. The weighted-average expected long-term rate of return on pension fund assets used to calculate pension expense for the Principal Plans was 6.68 percent in 2012 compared with 7.35 percent in 2011 and will be 6.43 percent in 2013. The expected long-term rates of return are evaluated on an annual basis. In setting these assumptions, we consider a number of factors including projected future returns by asset class relative to the current asset allocation. Actual asset allocations are regularly reviewed and they are periodically rebalanced to the targeted allocations when considered appropriate. 

23KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

Pension expense is determined using the fair value of assets rather than a calculated value that averages gains and losses ("Calculated Value") over a period of years. Investment gains or losses represent the difference between the expected return calculated using the fair value of assets and the actual return based on the fair value of assets. The variance between actual and expected gains and losses on pension assets is recognized in pension expense more rapidly than it would be if a Calculated Value was used for plan assets. As of December 31, 2012, the Principal Plans had cumulative unrecognized investment and actuarial losses of approximately $2.9 billion. These unrecognized net losses may increase future pension expense if not offset by (i) actual investment returns that exceed the assumed investment returns, (ii) other factors, including reduced pension liabilities arising from higher discount rates used to calculate pension obligations, or (iii) other actuarial gains, including whether such accumulated actuarial losses at each measurement date exceed the "corridor" as required.

The discount (or settlement) rate used to determine the present value of our future U.S. pension obligation at December 31, 2012 was based on a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities with cash flows that largely match the expected benefit payments of the plan. For the U.K. and Canadian plans, the discount rate was determined based on yield curves constructed from a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities. Each year's expected future benefit payments were discounted to their present value at the appropriate yield curve rate to determine the pension obligations. The weighted-average discount rate for the Principal Plans decreased to 4.12 percent at December 31, 2012 from 4.90 percent at December 31, 2011.

Consolidated pension expense for defined benefit pension plans is estimated to approximate $65 to $75 in 2013 compared to $122 incurred in 2012. The 2013 estimate includes an approximate $30 benefit from a plan curtailment related to the restructuring associated with the European strategic changes, and is based on an expected weighted-average long-term rate of return on assets in the Principal Plans of 6.43 percent, a weighted-average discount rate for the Principal Plans of 4.12 percent and various other assumptions. Pension expense beyond 2013 will depend on future investment performance, our contributions to the pension trusts, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the covered employees in the plans.

If the expected long-term rates of return on assets for the Principal Plans were lowered by 0.25 percent, our annual pension expense would increase by approximately $12 in 2013. If the discount rate assumptions for these same plans were reduced by 0.25 percent, annual pension expense would increase by approximately $3 and the December 31, 2012 pension liability would increase by about $197.

The fair value of the assets in our defined benefit plans was $5.4 billion and $5.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. The projected benefit obligations of the defined benefit plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by approximately $1.2 billion and $0.7 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. On a consolidated basis, we contributed $110 to our pension plans in 2012 compared with $679 in 2011. In addition, we made direct benefit payments of $14 in both 2012 and 2011. We currently anticipate contributing $100 to $300 to our pension plans in 2013.

The methodology for determining the discount rate used for each country's pension obligation is the same as the methodology used to determine the discount rate used for that country's other postretirement benefit obligation. The discount rates displayed for the two types of obligations for our consolidated operations may appear different due to the unique benefit payments of the plans. 

Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

Substantially all U.S. retirees and employees are covered by unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plans. Certain benefits are based on years of service and/or age at retirement. The plans are principally noncontributory for employees who were eligible to retire before 1993, contributory for most employees who retire after 1992, and we provide no subsidized benefits to most employees hired after 2003.

We made benefit payments of $55 in 2012 compared with $74 in 2011. The determination of the discount rates used to calculate the benefit obligations of the plans is discussed in the pension benefit section above. If the discount rate assumptions for these plans were reduced by 0.25 percent, there would be no impact to 2013 other postretirement benefit expense and the December 31, 2012 benefit liability would increase by about $20.

The health care cost trend rate is based on a combination of inputs including our recent claims history and insights from external advisers regarding recent developments in the health care marketplace, as well as projections of future trends in the marketplace. The annual increase in the consolidated weighted-average health care cost trend rate is expected to be 7.1 percent in 2013 and to gradually decline to 5.1 percent in 2018 and thereafter. See Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of the effect of a one percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate.

24KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The carrying amount of goodwill is tested annually as of the beginning of the fourth quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Impairment testing is conducted at the reporting unit level of our businesses and is based on a discounted cash flow approach to determine the fair value. The determination of fair value requires significant management judgment including estimating future sales volumes, selling prices and costs, changes in working capital, investments in property and equipment and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. Sensitivities of these fair value estimates to changes in assumptions for sales volumes, selling prices and costs are also tested. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit that contains goodwill exceeds fair value, a possible impairment would be indicated.

If a possible impairment is indicated, the implied fair value of goodwill would be estimated by comparing the fair value of the net assets of the unit excluding goodwill to the total fair value of the unit. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment charge would be recorded. Judgment is used in assessing whether goodwill should be tested more frequently for impairment than annually. Factors such as unexpected adverse economic conditions, competition, product changes and other external events may require more frequent assessments. The annual goodwill impairment testing has been completed and, as the fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of the respective reporting unit's carrying value, it has been determined that our $3.3 billion of goodwill is not impaired.

We have no significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. At December 31, 2012, we have intangible assets with finite useful lives with a gross carrying amount of $516 and a net carrying amount of $235. These intangibles are being amortized over their estimated useful lives and are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset is not recoverable based on estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss would be indicated. The amount of the impairment loss to be recorded would be based on the excess of the carrying amount of the intangible asset over its fair value (based on discounted future cash flows). Judgment is used in assessing whether the carrying amount of intangible assets is not expected to be recoverable over their estimated remaining useful lives. The factors considered are similar to those outlined in the goodwill impairment discussion above.

Deferred Income Taxes and Potential Assessments

As of December 31, 2012, we have recorded deferred tax assets related to income tax loss carryforwards, income tax credit carryforwards and capital loss carryforwards totaling $716 and had established valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets of $189, thereby resulting in a net deferred tax asset of $527. As of December 31, 2011, the net deferred tax asset was $603. These carryforwards are primarily in non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions and in certain states in the U.S. Foreign tax credits earned in the U.S. in current and prior years, which cannot be used currently, also give rise to net deferred tax assets. In determining the valuation allowances to establish against these deferred tax assets, many factors are considered, including the specific taxing jurisdiction, the carryforward period, income tax strategies and forecasted earnings for the entities in each jurisdiction. A valuation allowance is recognized if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.

As of December 31, 2012, U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on approximately $9.5 billion of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. These earnings are considered by management to be invested indefinitely. However, they would be subject to income tax if they were remitted as dividends, were lent to one of our U.S. entities, or if we were to sell our stock in the subsidiaries. It is not practicable to determine the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability on these unremitted earnings. We periodically determine whether our non-U.S. subsidiaries will invest their undistributed earnings indefinitely and reassess this determination, as appropriate.

We record our global tax provision based on the respective tax rules and regulations for the jurisdictions in which we operate. Where we believe that a tax position is supportable for income tax purposes, the item is included in our income tax returns. Where treatment of a position is uncertain, a liability is recorded based upon the expected most likely outcome taking into consideration the technical merits of the position based on specific tax regulations and facts of each matter. These liabilities may be affected by changing interpretations of laws, rulings by tax authorities, or the expiration of the statute of limitations. Our U.S. federal income tax returns have been audited through 2009. IRS assessments of additional taxes have been paid through 2003. We have various federal income tax return positions in administrative appeals or litigation for 1999 to 2009. We currently believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

25KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

Legal Matters

We are subject to various legal proceedings, claims and governmental inspections, audits or investigations pertaining to issues such as contract disputes, product liability, tax matters, patents and trademarks, advertising, governmental regulations, employment and other matters. Although the results of litigation and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the ultimate disposition of these matters, to the extent not previously provided for, will not have a material adverse effect, individually or in the aggregate, on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations with respect to our business operations and are operating in compliance with, or taking action aimed at ensuring compliance with, these laws and regulations. We have been named a potentially responsible party under the provisions of the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or analogous state statutes, at a number of sites where hazardous substances are present. None of our compliance obligations with environmental protection laws and regulations, individually or in the aggregate, is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

New Accounting Standards

See Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of new accounting standards and their anticipated effects on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Business Outlook

European Strategic Changes

On October 23, 2012, we approved strategic changes related to our Western and Central European consumer and professional businesses to focus our resources and investments on stronger market positions and growth opportunities. We will be exiting the diaper category in that region, with the exception of the Italian market, and divesting or exiting some lower-margin businesses, mostly in consumer tissue, in certain markets. The changes will primarily affect our consumer businesses, with a modest impact on KCP. The businesses that will be exited or divested generate annual net sales of approximately $500 and negligible operating profit. 

Restructuring actions related to the strategic changes will involve the sale or closure of five of our European manufacturing facilities and a streamlining of our administrative organization. In total, these actions will result in reducing our European workforce by approximately 1,300 to 1,500 positions. 

The restructuring actions commenced in the fourth quarter of 2012 and are expected to be completed by December 31, 2014. The restructuring is expected to result in cumulative charges of approximately $250 to $350 after tax ($300 to $400 pre-tax) over that period. Cash costs related to severance and other expenses are expected to account for approximately 50 to 60 percent of the charges. Noncash charges will consist primarily of asset impairment charges and incremental depreciation.

K‑C Venezuela 

On February 13, 2013, the Venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the Central Bank of Venezuela regulated currency exchange system rate to 6.3 bolivars per U.S. dollar and the elimination of the SITME rate. As a result of the devaluation, we expect to record an after tax charge of $25 to $35 in the first quarter of 2013 related to the remeasurement of the local currency-denominated balance sheet to the new exchange rate.

2013 Operating Results

In 2013, we plan to continue to pursue targeted growth initiatives, launch product innovations and support our brands with increased strategic marketing spending. We expect to achieve cost savings, which should help us overcome moderate commodity cost inflation. We will continue to manage our company with financial discipline, including a focus on cash generation and shareholder-friendly capital allocation. We plan to continue our program of share repurchases, and have increased the amount of our regular quarterly dividend by 9 percent for 2013. 

Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Certain matters discussed in this Form 10-K or related documents, a portion of which are incorporated herein by reference, concerning, among other things, the business outlook, including the anticipated costs, scope, timing and effects of the Western 

26KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2012 Annual Report

and Central European strategic changes and the pulp and tissue restructuring actions, the impact of foreign government actions, cost inflation and input costs, cost savings and reductions, plans for growth, liquidity, cash flow, cash sources and uses of cash, anticipated currency rates and exchange risk, anticipated financial and operating results, contingencies and anticipated transactions of Kimberly-Clark, including share repurchases, capital spending and pension contributions, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based upon management's expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting Kimberly-Clark. There can be no assurance that these future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update them.

The assumptions used as a basis for the forward-looking statements include many estimates that, among other things, depend on the achievement of future cost savings and projected volume increases. In addition, many factors outside our control, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the prices and availability of our raw materials, potential competitive pressures on selling prices for our products, energy costs and retail trade customer actions, as well as general economic and political conditions globally and in the markets in which we do business, could affect the realization of these estimates.

The factors described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K, or in our other SEC filings, among others, could cause our future results to differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could also affect our business operations and financial results.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK