PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

The Company  

TransDigm Inc. was formed in July 1993 in connection with the acquisition of certain businesses from IMO Industries Inc. TransDigm Group Incorporated (“TD Group”) was formed in July 2003 to facilitate the acquisition of TransDigm, Inc. In March 2006 and May 2007, certain stockholders of TD Group and certain members of our management sold shares of TD Group common stock in underwritten public offerings. TD Group did not offer any shares of common stock for sale in the offerings and TD Group did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders. As a result of the initial public offering in 2006, TD Group’s common stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “TDG.” As a result of the follow on offering in 2007, TD Group was no longer a “controlled company” for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements.  

On December 6, 2010, TransDigm Inc. completed the acquisition of McKechnie Aerospace Holdings Inc. (“McKechnie Aerospace”), a supplier of aerospace components, assemblies and subsystems, for approximately $1.27 billion. On March 9, 2011, the Company completed the divestiture of the fastener business acquired as part of McKechnie Aerospace for approximately $239.6 million, subject to adjustment. On April 7, 2011, the Company completed the divestiture of Aero Quality Sales, a distributor and service center of aircraft batteries and battery support equipment, for approximately $31.8 million. Neither the non-proprietary fastener business nor the Aero Quality Sales distribution business fit with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  

We believe we are a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components for use on nearly all commercial and military aircraft in service today. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products we offer to our customers. We estimate that over 90% of our net sales for fiscal year 2011 were generated by proprietary products. In addition, for fiscal year 2011, we estimate that we generated approximately 75% of our net sales from products for which we are the sole source provider.  

1  

Table of Contents 

Most of our products generate significant aftermarket revenue. Once our parts are designed into and sold on a new aircraft, we generate net sales from aftermarket consumption over the life of that aircraft, which is generally estimated to be approximately 30 years. A typical platform can be produced for 20 to 30 years, giving us an estimated product life cycle of 50-60 years. We estimate that approximately 56% of our net sales in fiscal year 2011 were generated from aftermarket sales, the vast majority of which come from the commercial and military aftermarkets. These aftermarket revenues have historically produced a higher gross margin and been more stable than sales to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs.  

Products  

We primarily design, produce and supply highly-engineered proprietary aerospace components (and certain systems/subsystems) with significant aftermarket content. We seek to develop highly customized products to solve specific needs for aircraft operators and manufacturers. We attempt to differentiate ourselves based on engineering, service and manufacturing capabilities. We typically choose not to compete for non-proprietary “build to print” business because it frequently offers lower margins than proprietary products. We believe that our products have strong brand names within the industry and that we have a reputation for high quality, reliability and customer support.  

Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products that we offer to our customers. Some of our more significant product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to end-users in the aerospace industry, include mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators, NiCad batteries and chargers, engineered latching and locking devices, rods and locking devices, engineered connectors and elastomers, cockpit security components and systems, specialized cockpit displays, aircraft audio systems, specialized lavatory components, engineered interior surfaces and lighting and control technology.  

Sales and Marketing  

Consistent with our overall strategy, our sales and marketing organization is structured to continually develop technical solutions that meet customer needs. In particular, we attempt to focus on products and programs that will lead to high-margin, repeatable sales in the aftermarket.  

We have structured our sales efforts along our major product offerings, assigning a product manager to certain products. Each product manager is expected to grow the sales and profitability of the products for which he or she is responsible and to achieve the targeted annual level of bookings, sales, new business and profitability for such products. The product managers are assisted by account managers and sales engineers who are responsible for covering major OEM and aftermarket accounts. Account managers and sales engineers are expected to be familiar with the personnel, organization and needs of specific customers, to achieve total bookings and new business goals at each account and, together with the product managers, to determine when additional resources are required at customer locations. Most of our sales personnel are evaluated, in part, on their bookings and their ability to identify and obtain new business opportunities.  

Though typically performed by employees, the account manager function may be performed by independent representatives depending on the specific customer, product and geographic location. We also use a number of distributors to provide logistical support as well as primary customer contact with certain smaller accounts. Our major distributors are Aviall, Inc. (a subsidiary of The Boeing Company) and Satair A/S (a Danish public company on whose Board of Directors Mr. Howley, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, served through October 2011).  

Manufacturing and Engineering  

We maintain 25 principal manufacturing facilities. Our manufacturing facilities typically comprise manufacturing, distribution and engineering functions, and most facilities have certain administrative functions,  

2  

Table of Contents 

 including management, sales and finance. We continually strive to improve productivity and reduce costs, including rationalization of operations, developing improved control systems that allow for accurate product profit and loss accounting, investing in equipment, tooling, information systems and implementing broad-based employee training programs. Management believes that our manufacturing systems and equipment contribute to our ability to compete by permitting us to meet the rigorous tolerances and cost sensitive price structure of aircraft component customers.  

We attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by producing uniquely engineered products with high quality and timely delivery. Our engineering costs are recorded in Cost of Sales and in Selling and Administrative captions in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Total engineering expense represents approximately 7% of our operating units’ aggregate costs, or approximately 4% of our consolidated net sales. Our proprietary products, and particularly our new product initiatives, are designed by our engineers and are intended to serve the needs of the aircraft component industry. These proprietary designs must withstand the extraordinary conditions and stresses that will be endured by products during use and meet the rigorous demands of our customers’ tolerance and quality requirements.  

We use sophisticated equipment and procedures to comply with quality requirements, specifications and Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”) and OEM requirements. We perform a variety of testing procedures, including testing under different temperature, humidity and altitude levels, shock and vibration testing and X-ray fluorescent measurement. These procedures, together with other customer approved techniques for document, process and quality control, are used throughout our manufacturing facilities.  

Customers  

Our customers include: (1) distributors of aerospace components; (2) worldwide commercial airlines, including national and regional airlines; (3) large commercial transport and regional and business aircraft OEMs; (4) various armed forces of the United States and friendly foreign governments; (5) defense OEMs; (6) system suppliers; and (7) various other industrial customers. For the year ended September 30, 2011, Boeing (which includes Aviall, Inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world) accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales. Our top ten customers for fiscal year 2011 accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales. Products supplied to many of our customers are used on multiple platforms.  

Active commercial production programs include the Boeing 737, 747, 767, 777 and 787, the Airbus A319/20/21, A330/A340 and A380, the Bombardier CRJ’s and Challenger, the Embraer RJ’s, the Cessna Citation family, the Raytheon Premier and Hawker and most Gulfstream airframes. Military platforms include aircraft such as the Boeing C-17, F-15, F-18 and V-22, the Lockheed Martin C-130J, F-16 and F-35 Joint Strikefighter, the Northrop Grumman E-2C Hawkeye, the UH-60 Blackhawk, CH-47 Chinook and AH-64 Apache helicopters, the General Atomics Predator Drone and the Raytheon Patriot Missile. TransDigm has been awarded numerous contracts for the development of engineered products for production on the Airbus A350XWB, A320 NEO and A400M programs and the Bombardier Learjet 85.  

We believe that we have strong customer relationships with almost all large commercial transport, regional, general aviation and military OEMs. The demand for our aftermarket parts and services depends on, among other things, the breadth of our installed OEM base, revenue passenger miles (“RPMs”), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, airline profitability. We believe that we are also a leading supplier of components used on U.S. designed military aircraft, including components that are used on a variety of fighter aircraft, military freighters and military helicopters.  

Competition  

The niche markets within the aerospace industry that we serve are relatively fragmented and we face several competitors for many of the products and services we provide. Due to the global nature of the commercial aircraft industry, competition in these categories comes from both U.S. and foreign companies. Competitors in our product offerings range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately-held entities, with only one or two components in their entire product portfolios.  

3  

Table of Contents 

We compete on the basis of engineering, manufacturing and marketing high quality products, which we believe meet or exceed the performance and maintenance requirements of our customers, consistent and timely delivery, and superior customer service and support. The industry’s stringent regulatory, certification and technical requirements, and the investments necessary in the development and certification of products, create barriers to entry for potential new competitors. As long as customers receive products that meet or exceed expectations and performance standards, we believe that they will have a reduced incentive to certify another supplier because of the cost and time of the technical design and testing certification process. In addition, we believe that concerns about safety and flight delays if products are unavailable or undependable are reasons for our customers to continue long-term supplier relationships.  

Government Contracts  

Companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally: (1) suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; (2) terminate existing contracts; (3) reduce the value of existing contracts; (4) audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; and (5) control and potentially prohibit the export of our products.  

Governmental Regulation  

The commercial aircraft component industry is highly regulated by both the FAA in the United States and by the Joint Aviation Authorities in Europe and other agencies throughout the world, while the military aircraft component industry is governed by military quality specifications. We, and the components we manufacture, are required to be certified by one or more of these entities or agencies, and, in many cases, by individual OEMs, in order to engineer and service parts and components used in specific aircraft models.  

We must also satisfy the requirements of our customers, including OEMs and airlines that are subject to FAA regulations, and provide these customers with products and services that comply with the government regulations applicable to commercial flight operations. In addition, the FAA requires that various maintenance routines be performed on aircraft components. We believe that we currently satisfy or exceed these maintenance standards in our repair and overhaul services. We also maintain several FAA approved repair stations.  

In addition, sales of many of our products that will be used on aircraft owned by non-U.S. entities are subject to compliance with U.S. export control laws.  

Our operations are also subject to a variety of worker and community safety laws. The Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”), mandates general requirements for safe workplaces for all employees. In addition, OSHA provides special procedures and measures for the handling of certain hazardous and toxic substances.  

Raw Materials  

We require the use of various raw materials in our manufacturing processes. We also purchase a variety of manufactured component parts from various suppliers. At times, we concentrate our orders among a few suppliers in order to strengthen our supplier relationships. Raw materials and component parts are generally available from multiple suppliers at competitive prices.  

Intellectual Property  

We have various trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights, which we believe, in the aggregate but not individually, are important to our business.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Backlog  

As of September 30, 2011, the Company estimated its sales order backlog at $737 million compared to an estimated sales order backlog of $467 million as of September 30, 2010. The increase in backlog is primarily due to the acquisitions of McKechnie Aerospace, Talley Actuation and Schneller Holdings discussed below, totaling approximately $207 million as of September 30, 2011. The majority of the purchase orders outstanding as of September 30, 2011 are scheduled for delivery within the next twelve months. Purchase orders may be subject to cancellation or deferral by the customer prior to shipment. The level of unfilled purchase orders at any given date during the year will be materially affected by the timing of the Company’s receipt of purchase orders and the speed with which those orders are filled. Accordingly, the Company’s backlog as of September 30, 2011 may not necessarily represent the actual amount of shipments or sales for any future period.  

Foreign Operations  

Although we manufacture substantially all of our products in the United States, we manufacture some products in Belgium, Malaysia and Mexico. We sell our products in the United States, as well as in foreign countries. A number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition.  

Our direct sales to foreign customers were approximately $305.5 million, $170.6 million, and $150.4 million for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to foreign customers are subject to numerous additional risks, including the impact of foreign government regulations, political uncertainties and differences in business practices. There can be no assurance that foreign governments will not adopt regulations or take other action that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on the business or market opportunities of the Company within such governments’ countries. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the political, cultural and economic climate outside the United States will be favorable to our operations and growth strategy.  

Environmental Matters  

Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. Environmental laws and regulations may require that the Company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. At certain facilities acquired in connection with the acquisition of McKechnie Aerospace or third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of McKechnie Aerospace, subsidiaries of the Company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal Superfund laws and comparable state laws. The Company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws.  

Estimates of the Company’s environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. These estimates take into consideration the Company’s prior experience and professional judgment of the Company’s environmental specialists. Estimates of the Company’s environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation.  

Accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the Company’s accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such adjustments could have a  

5  

Table of Contents 

 material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in a given period. Based on currently available information, however, the Company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition.  

Environmental liabilities are recorded when the liability is probable and the costs are reasonably estimable, which generally is not later than at completion of a feasibility study or when the Company has recommended a remedy or has committed to an appropriate plan of action. The liabilities are reviewed periodically and, as investigation and remediation proceed, adjustments are made as necessary. Liabilities for losses from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present value. The liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at federal Superfund sites or similar state-managed sites, third party indemnity obligations, and an assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites.  

Employees  

As of September 30, 2011, we had approximately 3,800 full time, part time and temporary employees. Approximately 16% of our employees were represented by labor unions. Collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire at various dates ranging from February 2012 to April 2014. We consider our relationship with our employees generally to be satisfactory.  

Legal Proceedings  

We are from time to time subject to, and are presently involved in, litigation or other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Based upon information currently known to us, we believe the outcome of such proceedings will not have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition or results of operations.  

Available Information  

TD Group’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments, will be made available free of charge on the Company’s website, www.transdigm.com, as soon as reasonably practicable, following the filing of the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS