Item 7.  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Introduction  

The following discussion and analysis should be read together with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. Further, this report may contain material that includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that reflect, when made, Nielsen’s current views with respect to current events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Statements, other than those based on historical facts, which address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are and will be, as the case may be, subject to many risks, uncertainties and factors relating to Nielsen’s operations and business environment that may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results, express or implied, by such forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The terms “Company,” “Nielsen,” “we,” “our” or “us,” as used herein, refer to Nielsen N.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise stated or indicated by context.  

Background and Executive Summary  

We are a global information and measurement company that provides clients with a comprehensive understanding of consumers and consumer behavior. We deliver critical media and marketing information, analytics and industry expertise about what consumers buy (referred to herein as “Buy”) and what consumers watch and listen to (consumer interaction across the television, radio, online and mobile viewing and listening platforms referred to herein as “Watch”) on a global and local basis. Our measurement and analytical services help our clients maintain and strengthen their market positions and identify opportunities for profitable growth. We have a presence in more than 100 countries, including many emerging markets, and hold leading market positions in many of our services and geographies.  

On September 30, 2013, we completed the acquisition of Arbitron Inc., an international media and marketing research firm through the purchase of 100% of Arbitron’s outstanding common stock for a total cash purchase price of $1.3 billion. Arbitron is expected to help us better address client needs in unmeasured areas of media consumption, including streaming audio and out-of-home, and our global distribution footprint can help expand Arbitron’s capabilities outside of the U.S. With Arbitron’s assets, we intend to further expand our Watch segment’s audience measurement across screens and forms of listening. Arbitron has been rebranded Nielsen Audio.  

On February 3, 2014, we completed the acquisition of Harris Interactive, Inc., a leading global market research firm, through the purchase of all outstanding shares of Harris Interactive’s common stock for a total purchase price of $116 million. Harris Interactive is expected to expand our footprint with important industry verticals including pharmaceutical, automobile and financial services. 

We believe that important measures of our results of operations include revenue, operating income and Adjusted EBITDA (defined below). Our long-term financial objectives include consistent revenue growth and expanding operating margins. Accordingly, we are focused on geographic market and service offering expansion to drive revenue growth and improving operating efficiencies including effective resource utilization, information technology leverage and overhead cost management.  

Our business strategy is built upon a model that has traditionally yielded consistent revenue performance. Typically, before the start of each year, more than 70% of our annual revenue has been committed under contracts in our combined Buy and Watch segments, which provides us with a high degree of stability to our revenue and allows us to effectively manage our profitability and cash flows. We continue to look for growth opportunities through global expansion, specifically within emerging markets, as well as through the cross-platform expansion of our analytical services and measurement services.  

Our restructuring and other productivity initiatives have been focused on a combination of improving operating leverage through targeted cost-reduction programs, business process improvements and portfolio restructuring actions, while at the same time investing in key programs to enhance future growth opportunities.  

Achieving our business objectives requires us to manage a number of key risk areas. Our growth objective of geographic market and service expansion requires us to maintain the consistency and integrity of our information and underlying processes on a global scale, and to invest effectively our capital in technology and infrastructure to keep pace with our clients’ demands and our competitors. Our operating footprint across approximately 100 countries requires disciplined global and local resource management of internal and third party providers to ensure success. In addition, our high level of indebtedness requires active management of our debt profile, with a focus on underlying maturities, interest rate risk, liquidity and operating cash flows. 

25 

Business Segment Overview  

We align our business into two reporting segments: what consumers buy (consumer purchasing measurement and analytics), and what consumers watch and listen to (media audience measurement and analytics). Our Buy and Watch segments are built on a foundation of proprietary data assets that are designed to yield essential insights for our clients to successfully measure, analyze and grow their businesses.  

Our Buy segment provides measurement services, which include our core tracking and scan data (primarily transactional measurement data and consumer behavior information), and analytical services to businesses in the consumer packaged goods industry. Our services also enable our clients to better manage their brands, uncover new sources of demand, launch and grow new products, analyze their sales, improve their marketing mix and establish more effective consumer relationships. Our data is used by our clients to measure their market share, tracking billions of sales transactions per month in retail outlets around the world. Our extensive database of retail and consumer information, combined with our advanced analytical capabilities, helps generate strategic insights that influence our clients’ key business decisions. Within our Buy segment, we have two primary geographic groups, developed and emerging markets. Developed markets primarily include the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and South Korea while emerging markets include Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Russia, China, India and Southeast Asia.  

Our Watch segment provides viewership and listening data and analytics primarily to the media and advertising industries for television, radio, digital and mobile viewing and listening platforms. Our Watch data is used by our media clients to understand their audiences, establish the value of their advertising inventory and maximize the value of their content, and by our advertising clients to plan and optimize their spending.  

In June 2013, we completed the sale of our Expositions reporting segment (see “Discontinued Operations” discussion included in “Factors Affecting Our Financial Results” for more information). Our consolidated statements of operations reflect the Expositions reporting segment as a discontinued operation. 

Certain corporate costs, other than those described above, including those related to selling, finance, legal, human resources, and information technology systems, are considered operating costs and are allocated to our segments based on either the actual amount of costs incurred or on a basis consistent with the operations of the underlying segment.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The most significant of these policies relate to: revenue recognition; business combinations including purchase price allocations; accruals for pension costs and other post-retirement benefits; accounting for income taxes; and valuation of long-lived assets including goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, computer software and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the valuation of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. Actual results could vary from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For a summary of the significant accounting policies, including critical accounting policies discussed below, see Note 1 – “Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” – to our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition  

We recognize revenues when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been rendered or information has been delivered, the fee is fixed or determinable and the collectability of the related revenue is reasonably assured.  

A significant portion of our revenue is generated from information (primarily retail measurement and consumer panel services) and measurement (primarily from television, radio, internet and mobile audiences) services. We generally recognize revenue from the sale of services as the services are performed and delivered to the consumer, which is usually ratably over the term of the contract(s). Invoiced amounts are recorded as deferred revenue until earned. Substantially all of our customer contracts are non-cancelable and non-refundable.  

Certain of our revenue arrangements include multiple deliverables and in these arrangements, the individual deliverables within the contract that have stand-alone value to the customer are separated and recognized upon delivery based upon our best estimate of their selling prices. These arrangements are not significant to our results of operations. In certain cases, software is included as part of these arrangements to allow our customers to view delivered information and is provided for the term of the arrangement and is not  

26 

significant to the marketing effort and is not sold separately. Accordingly, software provided to our customers is considered to be incidental to the arrangements and is not recognized as a separate element.  

A discussion of our revenue recognition policies, by segment, follows:  

Buy  

Revenue from our Buy segment, primarily from retail measurement services and consumer panel services, is recognized over the period during which the services are performed and information is delivered to the customer, primarily on a straight line basis.  

We also provide insights and solutions to customers through analytical studies that are recognized into revenue as value is delivered to the customer. The pattern of revenue recognition for these contracts varies depending on the terms of the individual contracts, and may be recognized proportionally or deferred until the end of the contract term and recognized when the information has been delivered to the customer.  

Watch  

Revenue from our Watch segment is primarily generated from television, radio, online and mobile measurement services and recognized over the contract period, as the service is delivered to the customer, primarily on a straight-line basis.  

Stock-Based Compensation  

Expense Recognition  

Our stock-based compensation programs are comprised of both stock options and restricted stock units (“RSUs”). We measure the cost of all stock-based payments, including stock options, at fair value on the grant date and recognize such costs within the consolidated statements of operations; however, no expense is recognized for stock-based payments that do not ultimately vest. We recognize expense associated with stock-based payments that vest upon a single date using the straight-line method. For those that vest over time, an accelerated graded vesting is used. We recorded $47 million, $47 million and $34 million of expense associated with stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, the aggregate grant date fair value of all outstanding vested and unvested options was $57 million and $47 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, approximately $27 million of unearned stock-based compensation related to unvested RSUs (net of estimated forfeitures) is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3.2 years.  

Fair Value Measurement  

Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires considerable judgment. Stock-based compensation expense for time-based stock options is primarily based on the estimated grant date fair value using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which considers factors such as estimating the expected term of stock options, expected volatility of our stock, and the number of stock-based awards expected to be forfeited due to future terminations. Some of the critical assumptions used in estimating the grant date fair value are presented in the table below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We consider several factors in estimating the expected life of our options granted, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees, which we believe are representative of future behavior. For 2014 and 2013, expected volatility was based on our historical volatility. For 2012, because of the Company’s limited trading history, expected volatility was based on a combination of the estimates of implied volatility of our peer group, our historical volatility adjusted for leverage and the implied volatility based on trading Nielsen call options. 

In addition, for stock-based awards where vesting is dependent upon achieving certain operating performance goals, we estimate the likelihood of achieving the performance goals. The total number of performance restricted shares to be earned is subject to achievement of cumulative performance goals for the three year period. Forty percent of the target award will be determined based on the Company’s relative total shareholder return and sixty percent of the target award will be determined based on free cash flow  

27 

achievements. The maximum payout is 200% of target. The fair value of the target award related to free cash flow was the fair value on the date of the grant, and the fair value of the target awards related to relative shareholder return was based on the Monte Carlo model. Differences between actual results and these estimates could have a material effect on our financial results.  

The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based awards represent our best estimates and, although we believe them to be reasonable, these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management’s judgment. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current year.  

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets  

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any.  

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting of certain trade names and trademarks, are each tested for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such asset may not be recoverable. We have designated October 1st as the date in which the annual assessment is performed as this timing corresponds with the development of our formal budget and business plan review. We review the recoverability of our goodwill by comparing the estimated fair values of reporting units with their respective carrying amounts. We established, and continue to evaluate, our reporting units based on our internal reporting structure and define such reporting units at our operating segment level or one level below. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit are determined using a combination of valuation techniques, primarily by an income approach using a discounted cash flow analysis and supplemented by a market-based approach.  

A discounted cash flow analysis requires the use of various assumptions, including expectations of future cash flows, growth rates, discount rates and tax rates in developing the present value of future cash flow projections. Many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside of the control of management, and these assumptions and estimates can change in future periods. Changes in assumptions or estimates could materially affect the determination of the fair value of a reporting unit, and therefore could affect the amount of potential impairment. The following assumptions are significant to our discounted cash flow analysis:  

·  

Business projections – expected future cash flows and growth rates are based on assumptions about the level of business activity in the marketplace as well as applicable cost levels that drive our budget and business plans. The budget and business plans are updated at least annually and are frequently reviewed by management and our board of directors. Actual results of operations, cash flows and other factors will likely differ from the estimates used in our valuation, and it is possible that differences and changes could be material. A deterioration in profitability, adverse market conditions and a slower or weaker economic recovery than currently estimated by management could have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and could result in an impairment charge in the future. Should such events or circumstances arise, management would evaluate other options available at that time that, if executed, could result in future profitability.  

·  

Long-term growth rates – the assumed long-term growth rate representing the expected rate at which a reporting unit’s earnings stream, beyond that of the budget and business plan period, is projected to grow. These rates are used to calculate the terminal value, or value at the end of the future earnings stream, of our reporting units, and are added to the cash flows projected for the budget and business plan period. The long-term growth rate for each reporting unit is influenced by general market conditions as well as factors specific to the reporting unit such as the maturity of the underlying services. The long-term growth rates we used for each of our reporting units in our 2014 evaluation was 3%.  

·  

Discount rates – the reporting unit’s combined future cash flows are discounted at a rate that is consistent with a weighted-average cost of capital that is likely to be used by market participants. The weighted-average cost of capital is our estimate of the overall after-tax rate of return required by equity and debt holders of a business enterprise. The discount rate for each reporting unit is influenced by general market conditions as well as factors specific to the reporting unit. The discount rates we used in our 2014 evaluation of our reporting units were between 8.5% and 11.5%.  

These estimates and assumptions vary between each reporting unit depending on the facts and circumstances specific to that unit. We believe that the estimates and assumptions we made are reasonable, but they are susceptible to change from period to period.  

We also use a market-based approach in estimating the fair value of our reporting units. The market-based approach utilizes available market comparisons such as indicative industry multiples that are applied to current year revenue and earnings as well as recent comparable transactions.  

To validate the reasonableness of the reporting unit fair values, we reconcile the aggregate fair values of our reporting units to our enterprise market capitalization. Enterprise market capitalization includes, among other factors, the market value of our common stock and the appropriate redemption values of our debt.  

28 

During 2014 we updated our reporting structure in a manner that changed the composition of our reporting units. As a result of this change in reporting units, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis during 2014 immediately prior to the change and determined the estimated fair values of the impacted reporting units exceeded their carrying value (including goodwill). As such, there was no impairment as a result of this change.  

We did not have any indicators of impairment during the year ended December 31, 2014 that would require us to perform an interim impairment assessment. Our annual impairment assessment, performed as of October 1, 2014, was based on the updated reporting structure and resulted in no impairment. Further all four reporting units have fair values exceeding carrying values by at least 20% as of the annual impairment assessment date.  

We perform sensitivity analyses on our assumptions, primarily around both long-term growth rate and discount rate assumptions. Our sensitivity analyses include several combinations of reasonably possible scenarios with regard to these assumptions. However, we consistently test a one percent movement in both our long-term growth rate and discount rate assumptions. When applying these sensitivity analyses, we noted that the fair value was greater than the underlying book value for all of our reporting units. While management believes that these sensitivity analyses provide a reasonable basis on which to evaluate the recovery of our goodwill, other facts or circumstances may arise that could impact the impairment assessment and therefore these analyses should not be used as a sole predictor of impairment. 

The impairment test for other indefinite-lived intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The estimates of fair value of trade names and trademarks are determined using a “relief from royalty” discounted cash flow valuation methodology. Significant assumptions inherent in this methodology include estimates of royalty rates and discount rates. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the respective intangible assets. Assumptions about royalty rates are based on the rates at which comparable trade names and trademarks are being licensed in the marketplace.  

Pension Costs  

We provide a number of retirement benefits to our employees, including defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans. Pension costs, in respect of defined benefit pension plans, primarily represent the increase in the actuarial present value of the obligation for pension benefits based on employee service during the year and the interest on this obligation in respect of employee service in previous years, net of the expected return on plan assets. Differences between this expected return and the actual return on these plan assets and actuarial changes are not recognized in the statement of operations, unless the accumulated differences and changes exceed a certain threshold. The excess is amortized and charged to the statement of operations over, at the maximum, the average remaining term of employee service. We recognize obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans as expenses in the statement of operations as they are incurred.  

The determination of benefit obligations and expenses is based on actuarial models. In order to measure benefit costs and obligations using these models, critical assumptions are made with regard to the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets, the assumed rate of compensation increases and longevity changes in the local jurisdictions. We provide retiree medical benefits to a limited number of participants in the U.S. and have ceased to provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our Dutch retirees. Therefore, retiree medical care cost trend rates are not a significant driver of our post retirement costs. Management reviews these critical assumptions at least annually. Other assumptions involve demographic factors such as turnover, retirement and mortality rates. Management reviews these assumptions periodically and updates them as necessary.  

The discount rate is the rate at which the benefit obligations could be effectively settled. For our U.S. plans, the discount rate is based on a bond portfolio that includes only long-term bonds with an Aa rating, or equivalent, from a major rating agency. For the Dutch and other non-U.S. plans, the discount rate is set by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds. We believe the timing and amount of cash flows related to the bonds in these portfolios are expected to match the estimated payment benefit streams of our plans.  

To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we consider, for each country, the structure of the asset portfolio and the expected rates of return for each of the components. For our U.S. plans, a 50 basis point decrease in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense on our principal plans by approximately $1 million per year. A similar 50 basis point decrease in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense on our principal Dutch plans by approximately $3 million per year. We assumed that the weighted-averages of long-term returns on our pension plans were 6.0%, 6.0% and 6.2% for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The actual return on plan assets will vary year to year from this assumption. Although the actual return on plan assets will vary from year to year, we believe it is appropriate to use long-term expected forecasts in selecting our expected return on plan assets. As such, there can be no assurance that our actual return on plan assets will approximate the long-term expected forecasts.  

29 

Income Taxes  

We have a presence in more than 100 countries. We have completed many material acquisitions and divestitures which have generated complex tax issues requiring management to use its judgment to make various tax determinations. We try to organize the affairs of our subsidiaries in a tax efficient manner, taking into consideration the jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we are confident that tax returns have been appropriately prepared and filed, there is risk that additional tax may be assessed on certain transactions or that the deductibility of certain expenditures may be disallowed for tax purposes. Our policy is to estimate tax risk to the best of our ability and provide accordingly for those risks and take positions in which a high degree of confidence exists that the tax treatment will be accepted by the tax authorities. The policy with respect to deferred taxation is to provide in full for temporary differences using the liability method.  

Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are computed by assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The carrying value of deferred tax assets is adjusted by a valuation allowance to the extent that these deferred tax assets are not considered to be realized on a more likely than not basis. Realization of deferred tax assets is based, in part, on our judgment and various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, our ability to generate future taxable income in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen and potential tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future.  

The Company records a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Such tax positions are, based solely on their technical merits, more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities and reflect the largest amount of benefit, determined on a cumulative probability basis that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement with the applicable taxing authority with full knowledge of all relevant information. The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.  

Long-Lived Assets  

We are required to assess whether the value of our long-lived assets, including our buildings, improvements, technical and other equipment, and amortizable intangible assets have been impaired whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. We do not perform a periodic assessment of assets for impairment in the absence of such information or indicators. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used or a significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets is not recoverable. Recoverability of assets that are held and used is measured by comparing the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to be derived from an asset (or a group of assets) to their carrying value. If the carrying value of the asset (or the group of assets) exceeds the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows, impairment is considered to exist. If impairment is considered to exist based on undiscounted cash flows, the impairment charge is measured using an estimation of the assets’ fair value, typically using a discounted cash flow method. The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of fair values for assets (or groups of assets) requires us to make significant judgments concerning the identification and validation of impairment indicators, expected cash flows and applicable discount rates. These estimates are subject to revision as market conditions and our assessments change. No impairment indicators were noted for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.  

We capitalize software development costs with respect to major internal use software initiatives or enhancements. The costs are capitalized from the time that the preliminary project stage is completed, and we consider it probable that the software will be used to perform the function intended until the time the software is placed in service for its intended use. Once the software is placed in service, the capitalized costs are generally amortized over periods of three to seven years. If events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of software may not be recovered, a recoverability analysis is performed based on estimated undiscounted cash flows to be generated from the software in the future. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the software cost is written down to estimated fair value and an impairment is recognized. These estimates are subject to revision as market conditions and as our assessments change. Impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2014 were insignificant.  

Factors Affecting Nielsen’s Financial Results  

Acquisitions and Investments in Affiliates  

Arbitron Inc.  

On September 30, 2013, we completed the acquisition of Arbitron, through the purchase of 100% of Arbitron’s outstanding common stock for a total cash purchase price of $1.3 billion. Arbitron is expected to help us better address client needs in unmeasured areas of media consumption, including streaming audio and out-of-home, and our global distribution footprint can help expand  

30 

Arbitron’s capabilities outside of the U.S. With Arbitron’s assets, we intend to further expand our Watch segment’s audience measurement across screens and forms of listening. Arbitron has been rebranded Nielsen Audio.  

As part of the acquisition, we acquired the remaining 49.5% interest in Scarborough Research, a joint venture between us and Arbitron (“Scarborough”) that we historically accounted for under the equity method of accounting. We accounted for this transaction as a step-acquisition and calculated the fair value of the investment immediately before the acquisition to be $75 million. As a result, during the third quarter of 2013, we recorded a $24 million gain on the investment in Scarborough to other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. Commencing October 1, 2013, the financial results of Scarborough were included within our consolidated financial statements. 

The acquisition was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires, among other things, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date. Since the date of the acquisition occurred on the last day of the third quarter of 2013, the financial results of Arbitron were included within our consolidated financial statements commencing October 1, 2013. Our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes $134 million of revenues related to the Arbitron acquisition. 

The purchase price was allocated based upon the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition. The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As of the acquisition date, the expected fair value of accounts receivable approximated historical cost. The gross contractual receivable was $64 million, of which $4 million was deemed uncollectible.  

The allocation of the purchase price to goodwill and identified intangible assets was $947 million and $472 million, respectively. All of the Arbitron related goodwill and intangible assets are attributable to our Watch segment.  

Intangible assets and their estimated useful lives consist of the following:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents expected synergies and the going concern nature of Arbitron.  

31 

We incurred acquisition-related expenses of $19 million and $9 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which primarily consisted of transaction fees, legal, accounting and other professional services that are included in selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statement of operations.  

The following unaudited pro forma information presents the consolidated results of our operations and Arbitron’s for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2012, with pro forma adjustments to give effect to amortization of intangible assets, an increase in interest expense from acquisition financing, and certain other adjustments:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The unaudited pro forma results do not reflect any synergies and are not necessarily indicative of the results that we would have attained had the acquisition of Arbitron been completed as of the beginning of the reporting period.  

Nielsen Audio’s results of operations are fully reflected in our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014.  

Other Acquisitions  

For the year ended December 31, 2014, we paid cash consideration of $314 million associated with both current period and previously executed acquisitions (including Harris Interactive, Inc.), net of cash acquired. Had these current period’s acquisitions occurred as of January 1, 2014, the impact on our consolidated results of operations would not have been material.  

For the year ended December 31, 2013, excluding Arbitron, we paid cash consideration of $43 million associated with both current period and previously executed acquisitions, net of cash acquired. Had that period’s acquisitions occurred as of January 1, 2013, the impact on our consolidated results of operations would not have been material.  

For the year ended December 31, 2012, we paid cash consideration of $160 million associated with both current period and previously executed acquisitions, net of cash acquired. Had that period’s acquisitions occurred as of January 1, 2012, the impact on our consolidated results of operations would not have been material.  

Discontinued Operations  

In February 2014, Nielsen completed the acquisition of Harris Interactive, Inc., a leading global market research firm, through the purchase of all outstanding shares of Harris Interactive’s common stock. In June 2014, the Company completed the sale of Harris Interactive European operations (“Harris Europe”) to ITWP Acquisitions Limited (“ITWP”), the parent company of Toluna, a leading digital market research and technology company in exchange for a minority stake in ITWP. The consolidated statements of operations reflect the operating results of Harris Europe as a discontinued operation. 

In June 2013, we completed the sale of our Expositions business, which operates one of the largest portfolios of business-to-business trade shows and conference events in the United States, for total cash consideration of $950 million and recorded a gain of $290 million. The consolidated statements of operations reflect the operating results of this business as a discontinued operation.  

In March 2013, we completed the exit and shut down of one of our legacy online businesses and recorded a net loss of $3 million associated with this divestiture. The consolidated statements of operations reflect the operating results of this business as a discontinued operation.  

32 

Summarized results of operations for discontinued operations are as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

We allocated a portion of our consolidated interest expense to discontinued operations based upon the ratio of net assets sold as a proportion of consolidated net assets. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, interest expense of zero, $8 million and $23 million, respectively, and was allocated to discontinued operations. 

Following are the major categories of cash flows from discontinued operations, as included in our consolidated statements of cash flows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Foreign Currency  

Our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars and are therefore subject to the impact of movements in exchange rates on the translation of the financial information of individual businesses whose functional currencies are other than U.S. dollars. Our principal foreign exchange revenue exposure is spread across several currencies, primarily the Euro. The table below sets forth the profile of our revenue by principal currency.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar impact our operating results. Impacts associated with fluctuations in foreign currency are discussed in more detail under “Item 7A.—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” In countries with currencies other than the U.S. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. The average U.S. dollar to Euro exchange rate was $1.33 to €1.00, $1.33 to €1.00 and $1.29 to €1.00 for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations.  

We have operations in both our Buy and Watch segments in Venezuela and the functional currency for these operations was the Venezuelan Bolivares Fuertes. Venezuela’s currency has been considered hyperinflationary since January 1, 2010 and accordingly, local currency transactions have been denominated in U.S. dollars since January 1, 2010 and will continue to be until Venezuela’s currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary.  

In February 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency by 32%. The official exchange rate moved from 4.30 to 6.30 and the regulated System of Transactions with Securities in Foreign Currency market was suspended. As a result of this change, we recorded a charge of $12 million in 2013 in foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities. 

33 

During 2014, as a result of further changes associated with the Venezuelan currency exchange rate mechanisms, we changed the exchange rate used to remeasure our Venezuelan subsidiaries’ financial statements in U.S. dollars. Based on facts and circumstances present at March 31, 2014, we began using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions for U.S. dollars conducted under Venezuela’s Complementary System of Foreign Currency Administration (“SICAD I”). As a result of Exchange Agreement No. 25 between the Central Bank of Venezuela and the Venezuelan government, we believed that any future remittances for royalty and dividend payments would be transacted at the SICAD I exchange rate. Accordingly, because the equity of the Venezuelan subsidiary would be realized through the payment of royalties and dividends, the SICAD I exchange rate represented a more realistic exchange rate at which to remeasure the U.S. dollar value of the bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan subsidiaries in the consolidated financial statements. However, since its implementation, we have not been successful in gaining access to U.S. dollars through SICAD I. Due to the lack of access to the SICAD I auction system, as of December 31, 2014 we decided it was more likely that it would be able to gain access to U.S. dollars through the SICAD II mechanism to settle transactions conducted by the Company in Venezuela as it was created to provide an open mechanism that permits any company to request U.S. dollars for any purpose. Accordingly, we concluded that the SICAD II exchange rate should be used to re-measure our bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2014, the SICAD II exchange rate was 50.0 bolivars to the U.S. dollar, compared with the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the U.S. dollar and the SICAD I exchange rate of 12.0 bolivars to the U.S. dollar. As a result of these changes, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 in foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net in the consolidated statement of operations, reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities in the our Venezuelan operations.  

We will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in Venezuela and the Company’s specific facts and circumstances. 

We evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. The constant currency presentation is a non-GAAP financial measure, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, consistent with how we evaluate our performance. We calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period foreign currency exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. This calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with GAAP nor should such amounts be considered in isolation.  

Results of Operations – Years Ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012  

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

34 

Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation  

We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, stock-based compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items specifically described below.  

Adjusted EBITDA is not a presentation made in accordance with GAAP, and our use of the term Adjusted EBITDA may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation.  

We use Adjusted EBITDA to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. In addition to Adjusted EBITDA being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-GAAP financial information is viewed with GAAP financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance.  

Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. Adjusted EBITDA has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP.  

The below table presents a reconciliation from net income to Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a)  

For the year ended December 31, 2014, other items primarily consist of non-recurring costs. For the year ended December 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of Arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs. For the year ended December 31, 2012, other items primarily consist of transaction-related costs.  

Consolidated Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2014 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2013  

Revenues  

Revenues increased 10.3% to $6,288 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $5,703 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, or 12.4% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 2.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of the Arbitron and Harris Interactive acquisitions, revenues increased 2.4% (4.5% on a constant currency basis). Revenues within our Buy segment increased 3.4% (6.3% on a constant currency basis). Excluding the impact from the Harris Interactive acquisition, Buy segment revenues increased 0.8% (3.6% on a constant currency basis). Revenues within our Watch segment increased 20.4% (21.3% on a constant currency basis). Excluding the impact from the Arbitron acquisition, revenues within our Watch segment increased 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis).  

35 

Cost of Revenues, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization  

Cost of revenues increased 9.3% to $2,620 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $2,398 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, or 10.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 1.5% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs within our Buy segment increased 7.1% (9.3% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to the Harris Interactive acquisition in February 2014 and the continued global expansion of our services. Costs within our Watch segment increased 11.1% (11.7% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the Arbitron acquisition on September 30, 2013 partially offset by the impact of productivity initiatives. Corporate costs increased by approximately $17 million in 2014 as compared to 2013. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization  

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 5.6% to $1,917 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $1,815 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, or an increase of 7.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs within our Buy segment increased 0.9 % (3.5% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to the Harris Interactive acquisition in February 2014, as well as other investments associated with the expansion of our services. Costs within our Watch segment increased 21.7% (22.4% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the Arbitron acquisition on September 30, 2013, as well as the impact of other investments in product development initiatives. Corporate costs decreased by $10 million due to higher transaction-related costs in 2013. 

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $573 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to $510 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The increase was primarily driven by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with the assets acquired in business acquisitions. Depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $204 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $162 million for the year ended December 31, 2013.  

Restructuring Charges  

We recorded $89 million in restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives.  

We recorded $119 million in restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs.  

Operating Income  

Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $1,089 million compared to operating income of $861 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Operating income of $358 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 within our Buy segment decreased from $399 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Operating income within our Watch segment of $836 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased from $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Corporate operating expenses decreased to $105 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2013.  

Interest Expense  

Interest expense was $300 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to $309 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The decline primarily related to the refinancing of Term Loan A and B in February 2013, the maturity of the mandatory convertible debt in February 2013, the refinancing of the 11.625% senior notes in October 2013, and the refinancing of the 7.75% senior notes in April and July 2014 partially offset by the increased debt balance in September 2013 related to Arbitron acquisition financing and the interest expense allocated to our discontinued operations in the year ended December 31, 2013 as discussed in the “Discontinued Operations” section in “Factors Affecting Nielsen’s Financial Results” above.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Transaction Losses, Net  

Foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, particularly the Euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. The average U.S. Dollar to Euro exchange rate was $1.33 to €1.00 in each of the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013.  

36 

We incurred $71 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended December 31, 2014, resulting primarily from changes to the Venezuelan exchange rate mechanisms as discussed in the “Foreign Currency” section of “Factors Affecting Nielsen’s Financial Results” as well as the fluctuation in U.S. to Euro exchange rate associated with our European revolving credit facility and the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. 

We incurred $25 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended December 31, 2013, resulting primarily from the devaluation of the Venezuela bolivars Fuertes as discussed in the “Foreign Currency” section of “Factors Affecting Nielsen’s Financial Results” as well as the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. 

Other Expense, Net  

Other expense, net of $100 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 is primarily related to the “make-whole” premium associated with the redemption of our 7.75% Senior Notes due 2018, as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized deferred financing fees associated with the Class D and E term loans and certain costs incurred in connection with the refinancings. 

The $9 million of other expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2013 consists primarily of the write-off of deferred financing costs and other costs of $12 million associated with the amendment to our Senior Secured Credit Agreement, charges of $12 million associated with the unused bridge loan terminated as part of the Arbitron acquisition and charges of approximately $8 million related to the redemption of all of our 11.625% Senior Notes due 2014, partially offset by the gain of $24 million from the step acquisition of Scarborough.  

Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity in Net Income of Affiliates  

Income was $621 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to $520 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above.  

Income Taxes 

The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were 38% and 18%, respectively.  

The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2014 was higher than the Dutch statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the Company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities and foreign distributions, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2013 was lower than the statutory expense rate due to the favorable impact of certain financing activities, release of valuation allowances and favorable impacts of provision to return adjustments.  

At December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $452 million and $475 million, respectively. We also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 of $41 million and $52 million, respectively.  

Estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. It is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $23 million to $45 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes.  

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof.  

Adjusted EBITDA  

Adjusted EBITDA increased 13.6% to $1,837 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $1,617 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, or 16.5% on a constant currency basis. Our Adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 29.21% for the year ended December 31, 2014 from 28.35% for the year ended December 31, 2013. See “Results of Operations – (Years Ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012)” for the reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA.  

37 

Consolidated Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2013 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012  

Revenues  

Revenues increased 5.5% to $5,703 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $5,407 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 6.4% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 0.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact from the acquisition of Arbitron, revenues increased 3.0% (3.9% on a constant currency basis). Revenues within our Buy segment increased 1.9% (3.1% on a constant currency basis) while revenues within our Watch segment increased 11.2% (11.7% on a constant currency basis). Excluding the impact from the acquisition of Arbitron, revenues within our Watch segment increased 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis).  

Cost of Revenues, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization  

Cost of revenues increased 7.8% to $2,398 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $2,225 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 8.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs within our Buy segment increased 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to investments in the continued global expansion of our services as well as investment in our footprint in the emerging markets. Costs within our Watch segment increased 12.6% (13.2% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the Arbitron acquisition on September 30, 2013 and spending on product portfolio management initiatives. Corporate costs increased by approximately $3 million in 2013 as compared to 2012.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization  

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 5.3% to $1,815 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $1,724 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or an increase of 6.1% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.8% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs within our Buy segment increased 0.8 % (1.7% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to increases in client service costs and other investments associated with the global expansion of our services. Costs within our Watch segment increased 14.6% (15.5% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the Arbitron acquisition on September 30, 2013. Corporate costs increased by $21 million due to higher transaction-related costs.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $510 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $493 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase was primarily driven by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with the tangible and intangible assets acquired as part of the Arbitron acquisition on September 30, 2013. Depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $162 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $145 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 resulting from higher amortization on the assets acquired as part of the Arbitron acquisition on September 30, 2013.  

Restructuring Charges  

We recorded $119 million in restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs.  

We recorded $85 million in restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2012, of which $5 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance costs associated with employee terminations.  

Operating Income  

Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $861 million compared to operating income of $880 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Operating income of $399 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 within our Buy segment decreased from $403 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Operating income within our Watch segment of $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased from $553 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Corporate operating expenses increased to $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $76 million for the year ended December 31, 2012.  

Interest Expense  

Interest expense was $309 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $390 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The decline primarily related to our refinancing of the 11.5% senior notes and our 8.5% senior secured term loan  

38 

in the fourth quarter of 2012, the impact of our refinancing of the Class A, B, and C senior secured term loans in February 2013, the maturity of the mandatory convertible debt in February 2013 and the refinancing of the 11.625% senior notes in October 2013.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Transaction Losses, Net  

Foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, particularly the Euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. The average U.S. Dollar to Euro exchange rate was $1.33 to €1.00 for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $1.29 to €1.00 for the year ended December 31, 2012.  

We incurred $25 million and $17 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The loss in 2013 resulted primarily from the devaluation of the Venezuela Bolivars Fuertes as discussed in the “Foreign Currency” section of the “Factors Affecting Nielsen’s Financial Results” and the fluctuations of certain foreign currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. The loss in 2012 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio.  

Other Expense, Net  

The $9 million of other expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2013, consists primarily of the write-off of deferred financing costs and other costs of $12 million associated with the amendment to our Senior Secured Credit Agreement, charges of $12 million associated with the unused bridge loan terminated as part of the Arbitron acquisition and charges of approximately $8 million related to the redemption of all of our 11.625% Senior Notes due 2014, partially offset by the gain of $24 million from the step acquisition of Scarborough.  

The $118 million of other expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2012, consists of charges of $115 million associated with the redemption and retirement of our 11.50% Senior Notes due 2016 and the prepayment of our 8.50% Senior Secured Term Loan due 2017, a $6 million write-down of an investment in an equity security, and a $6 million charge associated with extinguishment of our term loan due in 2013, partially offset by a $10 million gain on the acquisition of a previously nonconsolidated business.  

Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity in Net Income of Affiliates  

Income was $520 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $359 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above.  

Income Taxes 

The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 18% and 34%, respectively.  

The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2013 was lower than the statutory expense rate due to the favorable impact of certain financing activities and the net release of valuation allowances partially offset by an increase in accruals for our uncertain tax position and tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, US state and local and other withholding taxes. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2012 was higher than the statutory expense rate due to the impact of distributions from foreign subsidiaries, tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, US state and local and other withholding taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, the net release of valuation allowances and changes in deferred tax rates.  

At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $475 million and $409 million, respectively. We also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 of $52 million and $45 million, respectively.  

Estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. It is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $47 million to $57 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes.  

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof.  

39 

Adjusted EBITDA  

Adjusted EBITDA increased 7.5% to $1,617 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $1,504 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 8.7% on a constant currency basis. Our Adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 28.35% for the year ended December 31, 2013 from 27.82% for the year ended December 31, 2012. See “Results of Operations – (Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011)” for the reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA.  

Business Segment Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2014 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2013  

Revenues  

The table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a)  

The Buy segment includes the results of Harris Interactive for the year ended December 31, 2014, commencing on February 3, 2014, the acquisition date. Excluding the impact from the Harris Interactive acquisition, total Buy revenue was $3,434, an increase of 0.8% (3.6% on a constant currency basis). 

(b)  

The Watch segment includes the Arbitron (Nielsen Audio) results for the full year 2014 and for the fourth quarter of 2013. Excluding the impact from the Arbitron acquisition, total Watch revenue was $2,269 million, an increase of 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis)  

(c)  

Total Nielsen revenue includes both Arbitron (full period) and Harris Interactive (from February 3, 2014) for the year ended December 31, 2014. Excluding the impact from the two acquisitions, total Nielsen revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $5,703 million, an increase of 2.4% (4.5% on a constant currency basis). 

Buy Segment Revenues  

Revenues increased 3.4% to $3,523 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $3,406 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 (6.3% on a constant currency basis). Excluding the impact of the Harris Interactive acquisition, revenues increased 0.8% (3.6% on a constant currency basis). Revenues from emerging markets increased 1.7% (9.5% on a constant currency basis) and revenues from developed markets increased 4.3% (4.9% on a constant currency basis). Excluding the impact from the Harris Interactive acquisition, revenues from developed markets increased 0.4% (1.0% on a constant currency basis). 

Revenues from information services, which primarily include retail scanner and consumer panel-based measurement, increased 0.3% to $2,657 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $2,648 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 (3.3% on a constant currency basis). Growth in these services was driven by increased client investment in retail measurement in the emerging markets as well as the addition of new clients in developed markets. 

Revenues from insights services, which consist of a broad range of analytics, increased 14.2% to $866 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $758 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, (16.6% on a constant currency basis). Excluding the impact of the Harris acquisition, revenues from these services increased 2.5% (4.6% on a constant currency basis), driven by increased demand for our analytical services in developed and emerging markets around the world. 

Watch Segment Revenues  

Revenues increased 20.4% to $2,765 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $2,297 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, or 21.3% on a constant currency basis. Excluding the impact from the Arbitron acquisition, revenues increased 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis). Audience measurement revenue, excluding Arbitron, grew 5.3% (6.3% on a constant currency basis). The increase in Watch revenues was driven by the continued strength of audience measurement, including digital and Marketing Effectiveness.  

40 

Business Segment Profitability  

We do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-GAAP business segment profitability. Non-GAAP business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. When this non-GAAP financial information is viewed with our GAAP financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. It is important to note that the non-GAAP business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. These non-GAAP measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

For the year ended December 31, 2014, other items consist primarily of non-recurring costs. For the year ended December 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of Arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Buy Segment Profitability  

Operating income was $358 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to $399 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as the increase in revenue mentioned above was more than offset by investment in the continued global expansion of our services, higher restructuring charges and an increase in depreciation and amortization expense. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 4.6% on a constant currency basis.  

Watch Segment Profitability  

Operating income was $836 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, as well as a decrease in restructuring charges and transaction-related costs partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 24.0% on a constant currency basis.  

41 

Corporate Expenses and Eliminations  

Operating expenses were $105 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 due to decreases in restructuring charges and depreciation and amortization expense.  

Business Segment Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2013 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012  

Revenues  

The table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a)  

The Watch segment includes the Arbitron results for the fourth quarter of 2013. Excluding the impact from the Arbitron acquisition, total Nielsen revenue was $5,569 million, an increase of 3.0% (3.9% on a constant currency basis) and the Watch segment revenue was $2,163 million, an increase of 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis).  

(b)  

During the fourth quarter of 2013, to conform to a change in management reporting, we reclassified two products from the Buy segment to the Watch segment. The business segment results have been reclassified for comparison purposes for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.  

Buy Segment Revenues  

Revenues increased 1.9% to $3,406 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $3,341 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 3.1% on a constant currency basis. Revenues from emerging markets increased 3.4% (7.4% on a constant currency basis) and revenues from developed markets increased 1.2% for the period (1.1% on a constant currency basis).  

Revenues from information services, which primarily include retail scanner and consumer panel-based measurement, increased 2.0% to $2,648 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $2,595 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 3.0% on a constant currency basis. Revenues from emerging markets increased 2.4% (6.5% on a constant currency basis) due to continued expansion of our retail measurement and services to both new and existing customers. Revenues from developed markets increased 1.9% (1.5% on a constant currency basis). Growth was impacted by no longer benefiting from the additional retail measurement coverage in the U.S. driven by Wal-Mart and softness in Western Europe. 

Revenues from insights services, which consist of a broad range of analytics, increased 1.6% to $758 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $746 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, (3.1% on a constant currency basis) driven by increased demand for our analytical services in the emerging countries around the world. 

Watch Segment Revenues  

Revenues increased 11.2% to $2,297 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $2,066 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 11.7% on a constant currency basis. Excluding the impact from the Arbitron acquisition, revenues increased 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis). Audience measurement revenue, excluding Arbitron (Nielsen Audio), grew 5.2% (5.7% on a constant currency basis) driven by increases in spending from existing customers, international expansion of our services to both new and existing customers, accelerated growth of our new digital products and increased growth in Marketing Effectiveness. 

Business Segment Profitability  

We do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-GAAP business segment profitability. Non-GAAP business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors  

42 

regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. When this non-GAAP financial information is viewed with our GAAP financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. It is important to note that the non-GAAP business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. These non-GAAP measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

For the year ended December 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of Arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs. For the year ended December 31, 2012, other items consist primarily of transaction-related costs. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Buy Segment Profitability  

Operating income was $399 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $403 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as the increase in revenue mentioned above was more than offset by investments in Emerging markets expansion and increases in retail measurement costs. Non-GAAP business segment income decreased 0.5% on a constant currency basis.  

Watch Segment Profitability  

Operating income was $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $553 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense and restructuring charges resulting from the Arbitron acquisition. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 16.2% on a constant currency basis.  

Corporate Expenses and Eliminations  

Operating expenses were $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $76 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 due to increases in restructuring charges, transaction-related costs and stock-based compensation expense. 

43 

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We have consistently generated strong cash flows from operations, providing a source of funds ranging between $1,093 million and $784 million per year over the past three years. We provide for additional liquidity through several sources including, maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources and a committed revolving credit facility. The following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Of the $273 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $264 million was held in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and as a result there may be tax consequences if such amounts were moved out of these jurisdictions or repatriated to the U.S. We regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our U.S. indebtedness and related obligations.  

We continue to focus on extending debt maturities and reducing cash interest expense. As set forth in more detail below, in 2013 and 2014, we obtained amendments to our term loan and revolving credit facilities, and used the proceeds from new issuances of senior notes to redeem previously outstanding notes with higher interest rates. The below table illustrates the results of these efforts through the decrease in our weighted average interest rate and cash paid for interest over the last three years. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In April 2014, we completed the issuance of $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.00% Senior Notes due 2022 at par. In addition, in April 2014, we entered into an amendment agreement to amend and restate the Third Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement in the form of the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, which provides for three new classes of term loans, Class A Term Loans, Class B-1 Term Loans and Class B-2 Term Loans, in a combined principal amount of $3,180 million and €286 million, the proceeds of which, when combined with the net proceeds from the $750 million 5.0% Senior Notes, were used to repay and replace our existing Class D Term Loans maturing in February 2017 and the Class E Term Loans maturing in May 2016. Concurrent with the refinancing of the term loans, the existing $635 million revolving credit facility with a final maturity of April 2016 was replaced with new aggregate revolving credit commitments of $575 million with a final maturity of April 2019. Finally, in May 2014, we completed the redemption of $280 million in principal amount of the then currently outstanding $1,080 million aggregate principal amount of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2018 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof plus an applicable “make-whole” premium. As a result of these transactions, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $45 million during 2014 to other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily related to the “make-whole” premium associated with the note redemption, as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized deferred financing fees associated with the Class D and E term loans and certain costs incurred in connection with the refinancings. 

In July 2014, we completed the issuance of an additional $800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% Senior Notes due 2022. The notes are traded interchangeably with the $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% Senior Notes due 2022 issued in April 2014. In addition, in July 2014, we completed the redemption of the remaining $800 million of outstanding 7.75% Senior Notes due 2018 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof plus an applicable “make-whole” premium. As a result of these transactions, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $51 million during 2014 to other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily related to the “make-whole” premium associated with the note redemption, as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized deferred financing fees associated with the 7.75% Senior Notes.  

Our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. We believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. We expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, dividend payments and capital spending over the next year. In addition we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 

44 

Long-term borrowings  

The following table provides a summary of our outstanding long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2014: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Term Loan Facilities  

In August 2006, certain of our subsidiaries entered into the Senior Secured Credit Agreement that was amended and restated in June 2009, February 2012, February 2013 and April 2014. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement provides for term loan facilities as shown in the table above.  

In April 2014, we entered into an amendment agreement to amend and restate the Third Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement in the form of the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement which provides for three new classes of term loans, Class A Term Loans, Class B-1 Term Loans and Class B-2 Term Loans, in a combined principal amount of $3,180 million and €286 million, the proceeds of which, when combined with the net proceeds from the $750 million 5.0% Senior Notes (see “Debenture Loans” below), were used to repay and replace our existing Class D Term Loans maturing in February 2017 and the Class E Term Loans maturing in May 2016.  

The Class A Term Loans were issued with an aggregate principal balance of $1,580 million, maturing in full in April 2019. The Class A Term Loans shall be required to be repaid in an amount equal to 5% of the original principal amount in the first year after the closing date, 5% in the second year, 7.5% in the third year, 10% in the fourth year, and 72.5% in the fifth year (with payments in each year being made in equal quarterly installments other than the fifth year, in which payments shall be equal to 3.75% of the original principal amount in each of the first three quarters, with the balance repayable on the maturity date). Class A Term Loans bear interest equal to, at our election, a base rate or eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin which ranges from 0.50% to 1.25% (in the case of base rate loans) or 1.50% to 2.25% (in the case of eurocurrency rate loans). The specific applicable margin is determined by the Company’s total leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement). 

The Class B-1 Term Loans were issued with an aggregate principal balance of $500 million, maturing in full in May 2017 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in aggregate annual amounts equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount of Class B-1 Term Loans, with the balance payable in May 2017. Class B-1 Term Loans bear interest equal to, at our election, a base rate or eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin, which is equal to 1.25% (in the case of base rate loans) and 2.25% (in the case of eurocurrency rate loans). 

45 

The Class B-2 Term Loans were issued with an aggregate principal balance of $1,100 million and €286 million, maturing in full in April 2021 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in aggregate annual amounts equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount of Class B-2 Term Loans, with the balance payable in April 2021. Class B-2 Term Loans denominated in dollars bear interest equal to, at our election, a base rate or eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin, which is equal to 2.00% (in the case of base rate loans) and 3.00% (in the case of eurocurrency rate loans). Class B-2 Term Loan denominated in Euros bear interest equal to the eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin of 3.00%. 

Obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) are guaranteed by TNC B.V., substantially all of the wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V. and certain of the non-U.S. wholly-owned subsidiaries of TNC B.V., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V. Under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of TNC B.V. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities.  

Covenants  

The Senior Secured Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. These entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to us. Such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $5.0 billion at December 31, 2014. In addition, these entities are required to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio. Neither we nor TNC B.V. is currently bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the credit agreement. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. Certain significant financial covenants are described further below. 

As discussed above, in April 2014, we entered into an amendment agreement to amend and restate the Third Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement in the form of the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. The financial covenant contained in our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement consists of a maximum leverage ratio applicable to our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. and its restricted subsidiaries. The leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net debt (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Agreement) at the end of any calendar quarter to Covenant EBITDA (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Agreement) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. The maximum permitted ratio is 5.50 to 1.00.  

Failure to comply with this financial covenant would result in an event of default under our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement unless waived by our senior credit lenders. An event of default under our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facilities, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. As our failure to comply with the financial covenant described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and this covenant are material to us. As of December 31, 2014, we were in full compliance with the financial covenant described above.  

Pursuant to our Credit Agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our Credit Agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate Excess Cash Flow (“ECF”), as defined in the Credit Agreement. The percentage of ECF that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to Covenant EBITDA, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. To the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ECF clause; such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. At December 31, 2014, our ratio of total net debt to Covenant EBITDA was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. Our next ECF measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2014 results, and although we do not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2014 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods.  

Revolving Credit Facility  

The Senior Secured Credit Agreement, as amended, also contains a senior secured revolving credit facility under which Nielsen Finance LLC, TNC (US) Holdings, Inc., and Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. can borrow revolving loans. The revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. In April 2014, we entered into an amendment agreement  

46 

to amend and restate the Third Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement in the form of the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, in connection with which the existing $635 million revolving credit facility was replaced with new aggregate revolving credit commitments of $575 million with a final maturity of April 2019. 

The senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted above with respect to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement under the “Term loan facilities” section above. Obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Senior Secured Loan Agreement.  

As of December 31, 2014, we had $280 million of borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $6 million. As of December 31, 2013, we had no borrowings outstanding, but had outstanding letters of credit of $12 million. As of December 31, 2014, we had $289 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility.  

Debenture Loans  

The indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. Upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Senior Notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by Nielsen N.V., substantially all of the wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries of Nielsen N.V., and certain of the non-U.S. wholly-owned subsidiaries of Nielsen N.V.  

In April 2014, we completed the issuance of $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.0% Senior Notes due 2022 at par. In May 2014, we completed the redemption of $280 million in principal amount of the then currently outstanding $1,080 million aggregate principal amount of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2018 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof plus an applicable “make-whole” premium. In July 2014, we completed the issuance of an additional $800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% Senior Notes due 2022. The notes are traded interchangeably with the $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% Senior Notes due 2022 issued in April 2014. In addition, in July 2014, we redeemed the remaining $800 million of outstanding 7.75% Senior Notes due 2018 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof plus an applicable “make-whole” premium.  

Dividends and Share Repurchase Program 

We remain committed to driving shareholder value as evidenced in 2013 with the adoption of a quarterly cash dividend policy by our board of directors, under which we have paid $356 million and $265 million in cash dividends during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be subject to the board’s continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders, and are in compliance with all laws and agreements to which we are subject. The below table summarizes the dividends declared on our common stock during 2013 and 2014. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

No dividends were declared or paid on our common stock during 2012. 

47 

In July 2013, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $500 million of our outstanding common stock. In addition, in October 2014, our board of directors approved a new share repurchase program for up to $1 billion of our outstanding common stock. The primary purpose of the program is to mitigate dilution associated with our equity compensation plans. Repurchases under these plans will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws from time to time in the open market or otherwise depending on our management’s evaluation of market conditions and other factors. Repurchases under these programs will be executed within the limitations of the existing authority granted at our 2014 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. As of December 31, 2014, we have purchased 11,182,983 shares of our common stock at an average price of $42.67 per share (total consideration of $477 million) under these programs. 

The following table provides a summary of share repurchase program activity through December 31, 2014. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Subsequent Event 

On February 19, 2015, our Board declared a cash dividend of $0.25 per share on our common stock. The dividend is payable on March 19, 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 5, 2015. 

Cash Flows 2014 versus 2013  

Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,093 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $901 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. This increase was driven by the Adjusted EBITDA performance described above and by the timing of vendor payments. Our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (DBO), increased by 1 day for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to a 1 day decrease for the year ended December 31, 2013.  

Investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $732 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $687 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The primary driver for the increased usage of cash from investing activities was the increase in capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the same period of 2013.  

Financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $585 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to net cash provided by of $83 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The increase in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to the higher share repurchasing and dividend payments, as described in the “Dividends and Share Repurchase Program” section above, during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the same period of 2013.  

48 

Cash Flows 2013 versus 2012  

Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $901 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $784 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. This increase was driven by the Adjusted EBITDA performance described above and by the timing of vendor and employee payroll payments. Our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (DBO), decreased by 1 day for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to a 1 day increase for the year ended December 31, 2012.  

Investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $687 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $522 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The primary driver for the increased usage of cash from investing activities was the increase in acquisition payments in connection with the Arbitron acquisition partially offset by proceeds received from the sale of our Expositions business.  

Financing activities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $83 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to a use of $298 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase in cash provided by financing activities was driven by proceeds from the issuances of debt, partially offset by dividends paid on our common stock and debt repayments.  

Capital Expenditures  

Investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $412 million, $374 million and $358 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

Commitments and Contingencies  

Outsourced Services Agreements  

In February 2013, we amended our Amended and Restated Master Services Agreement (the “MSA”), dated as of October 1, 2007 with Tata America International Corporation and Tata Consultancy Services Limited (jointly, “TCS”). The term of the MSA has been extended for an additional three years, so as to expire on December 31, 2020, with a one-year renewal option granted to Nielsen. In addition, we have increased our commitment to purchase services from TCS (the “Minimum Commitment”) from $1.0 billion to $2.5 billion over the life of the contract (from October 1, 2007), including a commitment to purchase at least $100 million in services per year (the “Annual Commitment”) until the Minimum Commitment is met. TCS’ charges under the separate Global Infrastructure Services Agreement between the parties will be credited against the Minimum Commitment and the Annual Commitment. TCS will globally provide us with professional services relating to information technology (including application development and maintenance), business process outsourcing, client service knowledge process outsourcing, management sciences, analytics, and financial planning and analytics. As we order specific services under the Agreement, the parties will execute Statements Of Work (“SOWs”) describing the specific scope of the services to be performed by TCS. The amount of the Minimum Commitment and the Annual Commitment may be reduced on the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the Agreement or SOWs, as applicable.  

Cyprus Agreement  

On March 25, 2013, Cyprus and certain members of the European Union reached an agreement on measures intended to restore the viability of the financial sector of Cyprus. As part of these measures Cyprus has agreed to downsize its local financial sector including:  

(1)  

The immediate dissolution of Cyprus Popular Bank under which equity shareholders, bondholders and uninsured depositors (defined as those with deposits in excess of €100 thousand) will contribute to make up the losses of the bank; and  

(2)  

The recapitalization of the Bank of Cyprus (“BoC”) through a deposit/equity conversion of uninsured deposits, with full contribution of equity shareholders and bondholders. Currently 37.5% of uninsured deposits of BoC have been converted into Class A shares with voting and dividend rights. An additional 22.5% have been “frozen” and may also be partially or fully used to issue new Class A shares, as necessary.  

As a result of this agreement, during the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded a charge of $4 million in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations representing the uninsured deposits either contributed to make up losses of Cyprus Popular Bank or converted into Class A shares of BoC, as described above. We do not expect this agreement to significantly impact future operating results.  

49 

Other Contractual Obligations  

Our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations.  

At December 31, 2014, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2014, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $493 million of unrecognized tax benefits (which includes interest and penalties of $41 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. See Note 14 – “Income Taxes” – to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a)  

Our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in Note 11 – “Long-Term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements” – to our consolidated financial statements.  

(b)  

Our operating lease obligations are described in Note 16 – “Commitments and Contingencies” – to our consolidated financial statements.  

(c)  

Other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreement, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. We generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. The amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. Our remaining commitments as of December 31, 2014 under the outsourced services agreements with TCS have been included above on an estimated basis over the years within the contractual period in which we expect to satisfy our obligations. As of December 31, 2014, the remaining TCS commitment was approximately $609 million. 

(d)  

Interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt based on LIBOR as of December 31, 2014.  

(e)  

Our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $35 million, $51 million and $64 million during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2015. See Note 10 – “Pensions and Other Post-Retirement Benefits” – to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations.  

Guarantees and Other Contingent Commitments  

At December 31, 2014, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements:  

 Sub-lease guarantees. We provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. To date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded.  

Letters of credit. Letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $6 million at December 31, 2014.  

Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  

We are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. Accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. While the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse  

50 

effect on our operations or financial condition. However, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources.  

Summary of Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

Foreign Currency Matters  

In March 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update, “Parent’s Accounting for the Cumulative Translation Adjustment upon Derecognition of Certain Subsidiaries or Groups of Assets within a Foreign Entity or of an Investment in a Foreign Entity”, to resolve the diversity in practice regarding the release into net income of the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of a subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity. The amendment requires an entity that ceases to have a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity to release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income. Accordingly, the cumulative translation adjustment should be released into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. This guidance is effective for our interim and annual reporting periods in 2014. The adoption of this update did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

Discontinued Operations 

In April 2014, the FASB issued an ASU, “Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity”, that raises the threshold for a disposal to qualify as a discontinued operation and requires new disclosures of both discontinued operations and certain other disposals that do not meet the definition of a discontinued operation. The ASU is aimed at reducing the frequency of disposals reported as discontinued operations by focusing on strategic shifts that have or will have a major effect on an entity’s operations and financial reports. In addition, the guidance permits companies to have continuing cash flows and significant continuing involvement with the disposed component. The ASU is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2014 and must be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted for disposals (or classifications as held for sale) that have not been reported in financial statements previously issued or available for issue. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

Revenue Recognition 

In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. The new revenue recognition standard provides a five step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The new model will require revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and shall be applied retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We are currently assessing the impact of the adoption of this ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements, including which transition method will be applied. 

Going Concern 

In August 2014, the FASB issued an ASU, “Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern: Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern”. The new standard defines management's responsibility to assess an entity's ability to continue as a going concern, and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. This guidance will be effective for all entities in the first annual period ending after December 15, 2016; however, early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Item 7A.