Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. We are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. We actively monitor these exposures. Historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. Currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. Our objective is  

51 

to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. It is our policy not to trade in financial instruments.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

We operate globally and we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in local currencies. Because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure.  

Foreign currency translation risk is the risk that exchange rate gains or losses arise from translating foreign entities’ statements of earnings and balance sheets from functional currency to our reporting currency (the U.S. Dollar) for consolidation purposes. Translation risk exposure is managed by creating “natural hedges” in our financing or by using derivative financial instruments aimed at offsetting certain exposures in the statement of earnings or the balance sheet. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  

The table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on the year ended December 31, 2014, a one cent change in the U.S. dollar/Euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $5 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income.  

We have operations in both our Buy and Watch segments in Venezuela and the functional currency for these operations was the Venezuelan Bolivares Fuertes. Venezuela’s currency has been considered hyperinflationary since January 1, 2010 and local currency transactions have been denominated in U.S. dollars since January 1, 2010 and will continue to be until Venezuela’s currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary. 

In February 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency by 32%. The official exchange rate moved from 4.30 to 6.30 and the regulated System of Transactions with Securities in Foreign Currency market was suspended. As a result of this change, we recorded a charge of $12 million in 2013 in foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities. 

During 2014, as a result of further changes associated with the Venezuelan currency exchange rate mechanisms, we changed the exchange rate used to remeasure our Venezuelan subsidiaries’ financial statements in U.S. dollars. Based on facts and circumstances present at March 31, 2014, we began using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions for U.S. dollars conducted under Venezuela’s Complementary System of Foreign Currency Administration (“SICAD I”). As a result of Exchange Agreement No. 25 between the Central Bank of Venezuela and the Venezuelan government, we believed that any future remittances for royalty and dividend payments would be transacted at the SICAD I exchange rate. Accordingly, because the equity of the Venezuelan subsidiary would be realized through the payment of royalties and dividends, the SICAD I exchange rate represented a more realistic exchange rate at which to remeasure the U.S. dollar value of the bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan subsidiaries in the consolidated financial statements. However, since its implementation, we have not been successful in gaining access to U.S. dollars through SICAD I. Due to the lack of access to the SICAD I auction system, as of December 31, 2014 we decided it was more likely that it would be able to gain access to U.S. dollars through the SICAD II mechanism to settle transactions conducted by the Company in Venezuela as it was created to provide an open mechanism that permits any company to request U.S. dollars for any purpose. Accordingly, we concluded that the SICAD II exchange rate should be used to re-measure its bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2014, the SICAD II exchange rate was 50.0 bolivars to the U.S. dollar, compared with the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the U.S. dollar and the SICAD I exchange rate of 12.0 bolivars to the U.S. dollar. As a result of these changes, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 in foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net in the consolidated statement of operations, reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities in the our Venezuelan operations. 

52 

We will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in Venezuela and the Company’s specific facts and circumstances. 

Interest Rate Risk  

We continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the U.S. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. At December 31, 2014, we had $3,758 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of which $2,601 million (excluding $500 million of forward interest swaps effective after December 31, 2014) was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. A one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $12 million ($38 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps).  

In November 2014, we entered into a $250 million in notional amount of two-year forward interest swap agreement with a starting date in May 2016. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of the interest rate of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.78%. This derivative instrument has been designated as interest rate cash flow hedge. 

In November 2014, we entered into a $250 million in notional amount of two-year forward interest swap agreement with a starting date in September 2015. This agreement fixes the LIBOR-related portion of the interest rate of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.26%. This derivative instrument has been designated as interest rate cash flow hedge. 

In October and November 2013, we entered into $1,000 million in aggregate notional amount of three-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in November 2013. These agreements fix the LIBOR related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.46%. The commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $1,000 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in November 2013. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges.  

In July 2013, we entered into $575 million in aggregate notional amount of three-year interest swap agreements with starting dates in July 2013. These agreements fix the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.67%. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. 

In November 2012, we entered into $500 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in November 2012. These agreements fix the LIBOR related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.57%. The commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $500 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in November 2012. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges.  

In November 2011, we entered into a $125 million notional amount and a €125 million notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in November 2011. These agreements fix the LIBOR and Euro LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 0.84% and 1.30%, respectively. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges.  

In August 2011, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year forward interest swap agreements with starting dates in September 2011. These agreements fix the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.84%. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges.  

Derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. We do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. Our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties.  

53 

Item 8.