PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Overview  

Wynn Resorts, Limited, a Nevada corporation, was formed in June 2002, is led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen A. Wynn, and is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts. We own and operate three destination casino resorts: “Wynn Las Vegas,” on the “Strip” in Las Vegas, Nevada, “Encore at Wynn Las Vegas” located adjacent to Wynn Las Vegas, and “Wynn Macau,” located in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China (“Macau”). We are also currently constructing Encore at Wynn Macau, an expansion of our Wynn Macau resort. We review our results based on the following two segments: Wynn Las Vegas (which includes Encore at Wynn Las Vegas) and Wynn Macau. For more information on the financial results for our segments, see Item 8 “Financial Statements”, Note 19 “Segment Information”.  

Due to a number of factors affecting consumers, including a slowdown in global economies, contracting credit markets, and reduced consumer spending, 2008 was a difficult year for the casino resort business, particularly for U.S. operations. Auto traffic into Las Vegas, airline capacity and air travel to McCarran International Airport have declined, resulting in lower casino volumes and a reduced demand for hotel rooms. The deterioration in global economic conditions will likely continue to cause us to experience lower than historical hotel occupancy rates, room rates, casino volumes and profitability. As a result of these factors, cash flow from operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 was significantly less than that generated in 2007.  

The factors described above accelerated through 2008 with fourth quarter results in Las Vegas significantly weaker than 2007. Additionally, in early 2009, we have experienced cancellation and attrition of group business at greater than historical levels.  

Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to “Wynn Resorts,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our,” or similar terms, refer to Wynn Resorts, Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

Wynn Resorts files annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments of such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Any document Wynn Resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC’s internet site address at http://www.sec.gov. Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com, Wynn Resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party SEC filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. Information found on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Our Resorts  

Wynn Las Vegas  

Wynn Las Vegas opened on April 28, 2005. We believe that the resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service with 2,716 rooms and suites, including 36 fairway villas and 6 private-entry villas for our premium guests. The Tower Suites at Wynn Las Vegas is the only casino resort in the world to receive both the Mobil five-star and AAA five-diamond distinctions. In January 2009, The Spa at Wynn Las Vegas earned five-star recognition from Mobil and became the only spa in Las Vegas to earn such award. In addition, Wynn Las Vegas was recognized for the second year in a row by Michelin, the esteemed European restaurant rating system. In October 2008, three of our restaurants were awarded Michelin stars. Two Michelin stars were awarded to Alex and one Michelin star was awarded to each of Wing Lei and Daniel Boulud Brasserie. Our resort also received five red pavilions, the highest honor for Michelin rated accommodations.  

3  

Table of Contents 

The approximately 111,000 square foot casino features approximately 135 table games, a baccarat salon, private VIP gaming rooms, a poker room, approximately 1,935 slot machines, and a race and sports book. The resort’s 22 food and beverage outlets feature six fine dining restaurants, including restaurants helmed by award winning chefs. Wynn Las Vegas also offers two nightclubs, a spa and salon, a Ferrari and Maserati automobile dealership, wedding chapels, an 18-hole golf course, approximately 223,000 square feet of meeting space and an approximately 74,000 square foot retail promenade featuring boutiques from Alexander McQueen, Brioni, Cartier, Chanel, Dior, Graff, Louis Vuitton, Manolo Blahnik, Oscar de la Renta and Vertu. Wynn Las Vegas also has a showroom which features “Le Rêve,” a water-based theatrical production. We believe that the unique experience of Wynn Las Vegas drives the significant visitation experienced since opening.  

Encore at Wynn Las Vegas  

Encore at Wynn Las Vegas opened on December 22, 2008. This resort is located immediately adjacent to and is connected with Wynn Las Vegas and features a 2,034 all-suite hotel as well as an approximately 72,000 square foot casino with approximately 95 table games, a baccarat salon, private VIP gaming rooms, approximately 835 slot machines and a sports book. The resort’s 12 food and beverage outlets include five restaurants, many of which feature award winning chefs. Encore at Wynn Las Vegas also offers a night club, a spa and salon, approximately 60,000 square feet of meeting space and approximately 27,000 square feet of upscale retail outlets featuring boutiques from Hermes, Chanel and Rock & Republic. The Encore Theater, featuring Danny Gans, opened on February 10, 2009.  

Wynn Macau  

Wynn Macau opened on September 6, 2006. Wynn Macau currently features approximately 600 hotel rooms and suites, approximately 370 table games, approximately 1,250 slot machines and a poker room in approximately 205,000 square feet of casino gaming space, five restaurants, a spa and salon, lounges, meeting facilities and approximately 46,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from Bvlgari, Chanel, Dior, Dunhill, Fendi, Ferrari, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Hermes, Hugo Boss, Louis Vuitton, Miu Miu, Piaget, Prada, Rolex, Tiffany, Van Cleef & Arpels, Versace, Vertu and Zegna. In November 2008, Wynn Macau was the only hotel in Macau, and one of only five hotels in Asia, to receive the Mobil five-star distinction. The Spa at Wynn Macau also received the Mobil five-star award. Wynn Macau includes a show in its rotunda featuring a Chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling and an interchangeable gold “prosperity tree” and a “dragon of fortune”.  

Construction and Development  

Encore at Wynn Macau  

We have commenced construction of Encore at Wynn Macau, a further expansion of Wynn Macau. Encore at Wynn Macau will add a fully-integrated resort hotel to Wynn Macau, planned to include approximately 400 luxury suites and four villas along with restaurants, additional retail space and additional VIP gaming space. While the completed project budget is still being finalized, we expect total costs to be approximately $700 million. We expect Encore at Wynn Macau to open in 2010. As of December 31, 2008, we had incurred approximately $202 million related to the development and construction of Encore at Wynn Macau.  

General  

In the ordinary course of our business, in response to market developments and customer preferences, we have made and continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to our properties. We have incurred and will continue to incur these capital expenditures at Wynn Las Vegas, Encore at Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau.  

Other Development Opportunities  

Approximately 142 acres of land comprising Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas is currently improved with a golf course. While we may develop this property in the future; due to the current economic environment and certain restrictions in our credit facilities, we have no immediate plans to develop this property.  

4  

Table of Contents 

We have applied to the government of Macau for a land concession for approximately 52 acres on Cotai and are awaiting final governmental approval of this concession. Due to the current economic environment, no construction timeline or budget have yet been developed.  

We continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in Las Vegas, other markets in the United States and worldwide.  

Our Strategy  

We believe that Steve Wynn is the preeminent designer, developer and operator of destination casino resorts and has developed brand name status. Mr. Wynn’s involvement with our casino resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. We integrate luxurious surroundings, distinctive entertainment and superior amenities, including fine dining and premium retail offerings, to create resorts that appeal to a variety of customers.  

Our properties were designed and built to provide a premium experience. We seek to position Wynn Las Vegas, Encore at Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau as full-service luxury resorts and casinos in the leisure, convention and tour and travel industries. We market these resorts directly to gaming customers using database marketing techniques, as well as traditional incentives, including reduced room rates and complimentary meals and suites. Our rewards system offers discounted and complimentary meals, lodging and entertainment for our guests. We also create general market awareness for our properties through various media channels, including television, radio, newspapers, magazines, the internet, direct mail and billboards.  

Mr. Wynn and his team bring significant experience in designing, developing and operating casino resorts. The senior executive team has an average of approximately 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. We also have an approximately 70-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience in all major construction disciplines.  

Market and Competition  

Las Vegas  

Las Vegas is the largest gaming market in the United States. The casino/hotel industry in Las Vegas is highly competitive and, prior to the recent economic conditions and interruption in projects under development, had undergone a period of exceptional growth, particularly with the addition of projects targeting the premium customer. Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas are located on the Las Vegas Strip and compete with these and other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos, those in downtown Las Vegas, as well as a large number of hotels in and near Las Vegas. Many competing properties, such as the Bellagio, Caesars Palace, Luxor Hotel and Casino, Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino, The Mirage, New York-New York Hotel and Casino, Paris Las Vegas, Treasure Island, The Venetian, The Palazzo and others, have themes and attractions which draw a significant number of visitors and directly compete with our operations. We seek to differentiate Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas from other major Las Vegas resorts by concentrating on our fundamental elements of design, atmosphere, personal service and luxury.  

Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas may face additional competition from new multi-billion dollar resorts that are expected to open on the Las Vegas Strip before the end of 2010 including, without limitation, City Center, Fontainebleau Las Vegas and Cosmopolitan. There are several other large projects under development in Las Vegas which have been delayed or may be delayed.  

The addition of Encore at Wynn Las Vegas’ 2,034 suites also creates competition for Wynn Las Vegas. While we are attempting to differentiate the product, at this time, we are uncertain how our customers will value the properties on a relative basis.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas also compete, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and Atlantic City, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on Native American lands and elsewhere in the world, as well as state lotteries and other forms of gaming. The proliferation of Native American gaming in California could have a negative impact on our operations. In particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. In addition, new or renovated casinos in Macau, including our properties in Macau, or elsewhere in Asia could draw Asian gaming customers, including “highrollers”, away from Las Vegas.  

Reflecting the current economic environment, the Las Vegas gaming and hotel markets experienced the first decline in trends in five years during 2008 with, among other things, a 4.4% decrease in visitation to 37.5 million visitors, a 10.6% decrease in Las Vegas Strip gaming revenue and a 9.8% decrease in average daily room rates, all as compared to the year ended December 2007. We, along with our competitors, have responded to the deterioration in consumer spending by aggressively marketing and pricing our Las Vegas offerings.  

Macau  

Macau, which was a Portuguese colony for approximately 450 years, was transferred from Portuguese to Chinese political control in December 1999. Macau is governed as a special administrative region of China and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and less than one hour away via ferry from, Hong Kong. Macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 40 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland China, and two neighboring islands, Taipa and Coloane, connected by bridges. We believe that Macau is located in one of the world’s largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. According to Macau Statistical Information, casinos in Macau generated approximately $13.6 billion in gaming revenue in 2008, a 31% increase over the $10.3 billion generated in 2007, making Macau the largest gaming market in the world.  

Macau’s gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. The Macau market has experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last few years. As of December 31, 2008, there were approximately 17,490 hotel rooms and approximately 4,000 table games in Macau, compared to approximately 12,978 hotel rooms and approximately 2,760 table games as of December 31, 2006.  

Gaming customers traveling to Macau have typically come from nearby destinations in Asia including Hong Kong, mainland China, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan. According to the Macau Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, approximately 90% of the tourists who visited Macau in 2008 came from mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Macau completed construction of an international airport in 1995, which accommodates large commercial aircraft and provides direct air service to major cities in Asia, including Beijing, Shanghai, Jakarta, Ho Chi Minh City, Taipei, Manila, Singapore and Bangkok. Travel to Macau by citizens of mainland China requires a visa. Adjustments to the visa policy were made in 2008 restricting the frequency of visitation. Government officials have the authority to further adjust the visa policy and may do so in the future.  

Prior to 2002, gaming in Macau was permitted as a government-sanctioned monopoly concession awarded to a single concessionaire. However, the government of Macau liberalized the gaming industry in 2002 by granting concessions to operate casinos to three concessionaires (including Wynn Macau), who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of Macau, to each grant one sub-concession to other gaming operators. There is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. Currently, there are 31 operating casinos in Macau.  

The other two concessions were granted to Sociedade de Jogos de Macau (“SJM”) and Galaxy Casino Company, Limited (“Galaxy”). SJM, which is controlled by Stanley Ho, operates 19 of the 31 existing casinos, including two of the larger casinos in Macau: the Hotel Lisboa and The Grand Lisboa. In addition, an affiliate of SJM owns most of the water ferry services and the helicopter shuttle service that link Macau to Hong Kong.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Galaxy was also awarded a casino concession in June 2002. Galaxy is a company controlled by Hong Kong businessman Lui Chi-woo and a group of Hong Kong investors. Galaxy opened the Waldo Hotel/Casino on the Macau peninsula in 2004, the Grand Waldo Cotai in the summer of 2006, and Galaxy Star World hotel casino immediately adjacent to Wynn Macau in October 2006.  

Las Vegas Sands Corp., the owner and operator of The Venetian and The Palazzo resorts in Las Vegas and a former partner of Galaxy, has entered into a sub-concession agreement with Galaxy which allows it to independently develop and operate casinos in Macau. The Sands Macao opened in 2004. In August 2007, Las Vegas Sands Corp. opened the Venetian Macao Resort Hotel, the largest casino resort in Macau. In August 2008, Las Vegas Sands Corp. opened the Four Seasons Hotel Macau adjacent to the Venetian Macao. In addition, Las Vegas Sands Corp. has proposed a masterplan for other large developments in Cotai that would include additional hotel properties as well as serviced apartment units and additional retail and related space. In late 2008, Las Vegas Sands Corp. suspended further development of its Cotai masterplan as a result of conditions in the global economy and credit markets.  

A joint venture consisting of Melco, a Hong Kong stock exchange-listed company and Crown, Ltd., an Australian company, is currently operating the Crown Macau (which opened in May 2007) and is constructing the City of Dreams, a large resort in Cotai, the first phase of which is anticipated to open in 2009. This joint venture operates its properties under a subconcession purchased from us.  

In December 2007, a joint venture of MGM MIRAGE and Pansy Ho Chiu-king (Stanley Ho’s daughter) opened the MGM Grand Macau, a resort on the Macau peninsula adjacent to Wynn Macau. The MGM Grand Macau is operated pursuant to a subconcession granted to the joint venture by SJM.  

Our casino concession agreement allows the government to grant additional concessions for the operation of casinos after April 1, 2009. If the government of Macau awards additional concessions or permits additional sub-concessionaires, Wynn Macau will face increased competition from casino operators in Macau.  

Wynn Macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of Asia, such as Genting Highlands Resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and casinos in the Philippines. Two large-scale casinos that are being developed currently in Singapore will add further competition to the region. Wynn Macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including Australia and Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming and other casinos throughout Asia.  

Geographic Data  

Geographic data are reported in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. Additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion of Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  

Regulation and Licensing  

The gaming industry is highly regulated. Gaming registrations, licenses and approvals, once obtained, can be suspended or revoked for a variety of reasons. We cannot assure you that we will obtain all required registrations, licenses and approvals on a timely basis or at all, or that, once obtained, the registrations, findings of suitability, licenses and approvals will not be suspended, conditioned, limited or revoked. If we are ever prohibited from operating one of our gaming facilities, we would, to the extent permitted by law, seek to recover our investment by selling the property affected, but we cannot assure you that we could recover full value.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Nevada  

Introduction. The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations made under the Act, as well as to various local ordinances. Wynn Las Vegas’ operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board, which we refer to herein collectively as the “Nevada Gaming Authorities.”  

Policy Concerns of Gaming Laws. The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. Such public policy concerns include, among other things:  

   •    preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity;  

   •    establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures;  

   •    maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities;  

   •    preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and  

   •    providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees.  

Changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our Las Vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations.  

Owner and Operator Licensing Requirements. Our subsidiary, Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, as the owner and operator of Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas, has been approved by the Nevada Gaming Authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool and pari-mutuel wagering. These gaming licenses are not transferable.  

Company Registration Requirements. Wynn Resorts was found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Commission to own the equity interests of Wynn Resorts Holdings, LLC (“Wynn Resorts Holdings”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, and to be registered by the Nevada Gaming Commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the Nevada Gaming Control Act. Wynn Resorts Holdings was found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Commission to own the equity interests of Wynn Las Vegas, LLC and to be registered by the Nevada Gaming Commission as an intermediary company. In addition to being licensed, Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, as an issuer of First Mortgage Notes registered with the SEC, also qualified as a registered company. Wynn Las Vegas Capital Corp., a co-issuer of the First Mortgage Notes, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source.  

Periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Gaming Commission and provide any other information that the Nevada Gaming Commission may require. Substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the Nevada Gaming Commission.  

Individual Licensing Requirements. No person may become a stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. Certain of our officers, directors and key employees   

8  

Table of Contents 

 have been or may be required to file applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. All applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. However, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason, which they deem appropriate. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. An applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position.  

If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada.  

Redemption of Securities Owned By an Unsuitable Person. Wynn Resorts’ articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, Wynn Resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. The redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. If Wynn Resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. If the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on The NASDAQ Global Select Market or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and asked prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. Wynn Resorts’ right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable Gaming Authority and, if not, as Wynn Resorts elects.  

Consequences of Violating Gaming Laws. If the Nevada Gaming Commission determines that we have violated the Nevada Gaming Control Act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. In addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Gaming Control Act, or of the regulations of the Nevada Gaming Commission, at the discretion of the Nevada Gaming Commission. Further, the Nevada Gaming Commission could appoint a supervisor to operate Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor’s appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations.  

Requirements for Voting or Nonvoting Securities Holders. Regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of Wynn Resorts’ voting or nonvoting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person’s suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the Nevada Gaming Commission has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of Wynn Resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. The applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any investigation.  

9  

Table of Contents 

The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the Nevada Gaming Commission. The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company’s voting securities to apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board mails the written notice requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an “institutional investor,” as defined in the Nevada Gaming Control Act, which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of the registered company’s voting securities may apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. In certain circumstances, an institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold up to 19% of a registered company’s voting securities for a limited period of time and maintain the waiver. An institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada Gaming Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company’s voting securities for investment purposes only. Activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include:  

   •    voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders;  

   •    making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and,  

   •    other activities that the Nevada Gaming Commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent.  

The articles of incorporation of Wynn Resorts include provisions intended to assist its implementation of the above restrictions.  

Wynn Resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada which may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. We are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of Wynn Resorts’ voting securities. The Nevada Gaming Commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act. The certificates representing shares of Wynn Resorts’ common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in Wynn Resorts’ articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws.  

Consequences of Being Found Unsuitable. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Gaming Commission or by the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Gaming Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we:  

   •    pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities;  

   •    allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to Wynn Resorts;  

10  

Table of Contents 

   •    pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or,  

   •    fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person’s voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value.  

Gaming Laws Relating to Debt Securities Ownership. The Nevada Gaming Commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the Nevada Gaming Commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the Nevada Gaming Commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission, it:  

   •    pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever;  

   •    recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities;  

   •    pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or,  

   •    makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction.  

Approval of Public Offerings. We may not make a public offering without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. On March 22, 2007, the Nevada Gaming Commission granted us and Wynn Las Vegas, LLC prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of two years (the “Shelf Approval”). The Shelf Approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us which is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. The Shelf Approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board. The Shelf Approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the Nevada Gaming Authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful. We have applied for a new Shelf Approval which is scheduled to be heard in March 2009.  

Approval of Changes in Control. A registered company must obtain the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company.  

Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and Nevada Gaming Commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. The Nevada Gaming Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction.  

Approval of Defensive Tactics. The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada corporate gaming licensees or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of Nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Gaming Commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming industry and to further Nevada’s policy in order to:  

   •    assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies;  

11  

Table of Contents 

   •    preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and,  

   •    promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs.  

Approvals may be required from the Nevada Gaming Commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. The Nevada Gaming Control Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company’s board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control.  

Fees and Taxes. License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries’ respective operations are conducted. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon:  

   •    a percentage of the gross revenue received;  

   •    the number of gaming devices operated; or,  

   •    the number of table games operated.  

A live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges and sales of food, beverages and merchandise where live entertainment is furnished.  

Foreign Gaming Investigations. Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered in Nevada, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, “licensees”), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board of the licensee’s or registrant’s participation in such foreign gaming. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Nevada Gaming Commission. Licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada Gaming Control Act. A licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Gaming Commission if it:  

   •    knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation;  

   •    fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations;  

   •    engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada;  

   •    engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or,  

   •    employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of unsuitability.  

Licenses for Conduct of Gaming and Sale of Alcoholic Beverages. The conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board, which has granted Wynn Las Vegas, LLC licenses for such purposes. In addition to approving Wynn Las Vegas, LLC the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. Clark County gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. The County has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. Any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Macau  

General. As a casino concessionaire, Wynn Macau, S.A. is subject to the regulatory control of the Government of Macau. The government has adopted Laws and Administrative Regulations governing the operation of casinos in Macau. Only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. Subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the Macau government and, to date, each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. Each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the Macau government which, together with the Law and Administrative Regulations, forms the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire.  

Under the Law and Administrative Regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire’s equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. The same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. Concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the Macau government. Concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. Transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the Macau government and are ineffective without government approval.  

Each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of Macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. The appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the Macau government. All contracts placing the management of a concessionaire’s casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the Macau government.  

Concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. Concessionaires are obligated to withhold, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to games promoters. Such withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time.  

A games promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. Macau law provides that games promoters must be licensed by the Macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. For a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a games promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. Applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. The term of a games promoters license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. Natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years.  

Under Macau law, licensed games promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. These contractors are subject to approval of the Macau government. Changes in the management structure of business entity games promoters licensees must be reported to the Macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. To conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the Macau government.  

13  

Table of Contents 

Macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their games promoters for the activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaires’ casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Concessionaires must submit annual lists of their games promoters for the following year, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. The Macau government may designate a maximum number of games promoters and specify the number of games promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. Concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their games promoters representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity.  

The government of Macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. During any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. The government of Macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. The government of Macau also may terminate a concession for cause, including, without limitation, failure of the concessionaire to fulfill its obligations under law or the concession contract.  

Concession Agreement. The concession agreement between Wynn Macau S.A. and the Macau government required Wynn Macau, S.A. to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in Macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of December 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion patacas (approximately US$500 million) in Macau-related projects by June 2009. This obligation was satisfied upon the opening of Wynn Macau.  

Wynn Macau, S.A. was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700 million pataca (approximately US$87 million) bank guarantee from Banco National Ultramarino, S.A. (“BNU”) that was effective until March 31, 2007. The amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million patacas (approximately US$37 million) for the period from April 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. This guarantee, which is for the benefit of the Macau government, assures Wynn Macau, S.A.’s performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. Wynn Macau, S.A. is obligated, upon demand by BNU, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the Macau government. BNU is currently paid an annual fee by Wynn Macau, S.A. for the guarantee not to exceed 5.2 million patacas (approximately US$0.7 million).  

The government of Macau may redeem the concession beginning on June 24, 2017, and in such event Wynn Macau, S.A. will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession.  

The government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if Wynn Macau, S.A. fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. The concession agreement expressly provides that the government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if Wynn Macau, S.A.:  

   •    conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose;  

   •    abandons or suspends gaming operations in Macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification;  

   •    defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts;  

   •    does not comply with government inspections or supervision;  

   •    systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system;  

   •    fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government;  

   •    is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent;  

   •    engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or,  

   •    repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws.  

14  

Table of Contents 

If the government of Macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, Wynn Macau, S.A. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under Macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of Wynn Macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. In addition, the government of Macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case Wynn Macau, S.A. would be entitled to reasonable compensation.  

Seasonality  

We may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2008, we had a total of approximately 20,600 employees (including approximately 7,200 in Macau).  

During 2006, we entered into a collective bargaining agreement with the Culinary and Bartenders Union local that covers approximately 6,300 employees at Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas. In May 2007, the dealers at Wynn Las Vegas elected the Transportation Workers Union to represent them. We are currently negotiating a contract with the Transportation Workers Union. Certain other unions may seek to organize the workers at Wynn Las Vegas and Encore at Wynn Las Vegas. Unionization, pressure to unionize, or other forms of collective bargaining could increase our labor costs.  

We recruited a substantial number of new employees for the opening of Wynn Macau and the success of our operations will be affected by our success in retaining them. Wynn Macau competes with the large number of new casino resort developments currently underway in Macau and expected in the near future for the limited qualified employees. We will have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff Wynn Macau. Recent policies announced publicly by the Macau government have affected our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. We are coordinating with the Macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure our labor demand is satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our Wynn Macau operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees.  

Intellectual Property  

Our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name “WYNN”. Wynn Resorts has filed applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”), to register a variety of the WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include “WYNN RESORTS”, “WYNN DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT”, “WYNN LAS VEGAS”, “ENCORE” and “WYNN MACAU”. Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future.  

A common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname, “WYNN”. As a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not registerable unless the surname has acquired “secondary meaning.” To date, Wynn Resorts has been successful in demonstrating to the PTO such secondary meaning for the Wynn name in certain of the applications based upon Mr. Wynn’s prominence as a resort developer.  

Federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. Third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations.  

15  

Table of Contents 

We have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in Macau, China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, certain European countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world to register a variety of WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include many of the same marks filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and include “WYNN MACAU”, “WYNN LAS VEGAS” and “ENCORE”. Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future.  

We recognize that our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of “WYNN”, are among our most valuable assets. As a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the United States, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in all relevant jurisdictions. We have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world.  

On August 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with Mr. Wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the “Wynn” name and Mr. Wynn’s persona in connection with our casino resorts. Under a Surname Rights Agreement, Mr. Wynn has granted us an exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide license to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating, the “Wynn” name for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. Under a Rights of Publicity License, Mr. Wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until October 24, 2017.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements. Certain information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are forward-looking, including, but not limited to, statements relating to our business strategy and development activities as well as other capital spending, financing sources, the effects of regulation (including gaming and tax regulations), expectations concerning future operations, profitability and competition. Any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking information involves important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated results in the future and, accordingly, such results may differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those set forth in Item 1A (Risk Factors) as well as the following:  

   •    adverse tourism trends reflecting current domestic and international economic conditions;  

   •    volatility and weakness in world-wide credit and financial markets;  

   •    general global macroeconomic conditions;  

   •    further decreases in levels of travel, leisure and consumer spending;  

   •    fluctuations in occupancy rates and average daily room rates;  

   •    conditions precedent to funding under the agreements governing the disbursement of the proceeds of borrowings under our credit facilities;  

   •    continued compliance with all provisions in our credit agreements;  

   •    competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors in reaction to adverse economic conditions;  

   •    completion of Encore at Wynn Macau on time and within budget;  

16  

Table of Contents 

   •    our intention to fund a substantial portion of the development and construction costs of Encore at Wynn Macau with anticipated cash flows generated at Wynn Macau;  

   •    doing business in foreign locations such as Macau (including the risks associated with developing gaming regulatory frameworks and travel-related visa restrictions);  

   •    restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland China to Macau;  

   •    new development and construction activities of competitors;  

   •    our dependence on Stephen A. Wynn and existing management;  

   •    our dependence on a limited number of properties and locations for all of our cash flow;  

   •    leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates);  

   •    changes in federal or state tax laws or the administration of such laws;  

   •    changes in state law regarding water rights;  

   •    changes in gaming laws or regulations (including the legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions);  

   •    approvals under applicable jurisdictional laws and regulations (including gaming laws and regulations);  

   •    the impact that an outbreak of an infectious disease, such as avian flu, or the impact of a natural disaster may have on the travel and leisure industry;  

   •    the consequences of the war in Iraq and other military conflicts in the Middle East and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks; and  

   •    future legal proceedings.  

Further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information currently available to us. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.  

17  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS