Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.  

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  

Description of the Company and Business Segments  

Baxter International Inc. (Baxter or the company), through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.  

The company operates in two segments. BioScience processes recombinant and plasma-based proteins to treat hemophilia and other bleeding disorders; plasma-based therapies to treat immune deficiencies, alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, burns and shock, and other chronic and acute blood-related conditions; biosurgery products; and select vaccines. Medical Products manufactures intravenous (IV) solutions and administration sets, premixed drugs and drug-reconstitution systems, pre-filled vials and syringes for injectable drugs, IV nutrition products, infusion pumps, and inhalation anesthetics, as well as provides products and services related to pharmacy compounding, drug formulation and packaging technologies. In addition, the Medical Products business provides products and services to treat end-stage renal disease, or irreversible kidney failure. The business manufactures solutions and other products for peritoneal dialysis (PD), a home-based therapy, and also distributes products for hemodialysis (HD), which is generally conducted in a hospital or clinic.  

Baxter has approximately 51,000 employees and conducts business in over 100 countries. The company generates approximately 60% of its revenues outside the United States, and maintains over 50 manufacturing facilities and over 100 distribution facilities in the United States, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada.  

Financial Results  

Baxter’s 2012 results reflect the company’s success from a financial, operational and strategic perspective, as the company was able to generate sales growth and improved profitability through disciplined execution of the company’s strategies. Despite a challenging global macroeconomic environment in 2012, Baxter was able to strengthen its core portfolio by expanding access and increasing standards of care globally while also advancing the product pipeline through record research and development (R&D) spending and executing multiple business development initiatives.  

Baxter’s global net sales totaled $14.2 billion in 2012, an increase of 2% over 2011, including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3 percentage points. International sales totaled $8.1 billion, a decrease of 1% compared to 2011, including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 5 percentage points. Sales in the United States totaled $6.1 billion in 2012, an increase of 6% over 2011.  

Baxter’s net income for 2012 totaled $2.3 billion, or $4.18 per diluted share, compared to $2.2 billion, or $3.88 per diluted share, in the prior year. Net income in 2012 included certain items which reduced income before income taxes by $334 million and net income by $190 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, as further discussed in the Results of Operations section below. Net income in 2011 included certain items which reduced income before income taxes by $374 million and net income by $247 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, as further discussed in the Results of Operations section below. Excluding these special items in both years, Baxter’s adjusted net income in 2012 was $2.5 billion, which represents an increase of 2% over 2011, while adjusted earnings per diluted share of $4.53 increased 5% from $4.31 in 2011. Adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per diluted  

18  

Table of Contents 

 share, each excluding special items, are non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measures. The company believes that these non-GAAP measures, when used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP, may provide a more complete understanding of the company’s operations and may facilitate a fuller analysis of the company’s results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.  

Baxter’s financial results included R&D expenses totaling $1.2 billion in 2012, which reflects the acceleration of R&D spending to drive late-stage development programs through product approvals in both developed and emerging markets, while also focusing on enhancing the company’s early-stage and exploratory R&D. During the year, the company obtained regulatory approvals for new products or new indications of existing products that will improve clinical outcomes for patients and provide quality-of-life benefits, while also initiating and advancing a number of clinical trials that have the potential to impact the treatment and delivery of care for various chronic diseases, such as hemophilia, and certain forms of cancer. Additionally, the increase in R&D spending reflects upfront payments made during the year as the company entered into new collaboration arrangements and re-aligned certain of the company’s R&D activities. Refer to the discussion below for further information regarding R&D activity in 2012.  

The company’s financial position remains strong, with cash flows from operations totaling $3.1 billion in 2012. The company has continued to execute on its disciplined capital allocation framework, which was designed to optimize shareholder value creation through targeted capital investments, share repurchases and dividends, as well as acquisitions and other business development initiatives as discussed in Strategic Objectives below.  

Capital investments totaled $1.2 billion in 2012 as the company continues to invest across its businesses to support future growth, including additional investments in support of new and existing product capacity expansions in the BioScience segment. The company’s investments in capital expenditures in 2012 were focused on projects that improve the company’s cost structure and manufacturing capabilities and support its strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets.  

The company also continued to return value to its shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends. During 2012, the company repurchased 25 million shares of common stock for $1.5 billion, and paid cash dividends to its shareholders totaling $804 million.  

Strategic Objectives  

Baxter continues to focus on several key objectives to successfully execute its long-term strategy to achieve sustainable growth and deliver shareholder value. Baxter’s diversified healthcare model, its broad portfolio of products that treat life-threatening acute or chronic conditions, and its global presence are core components of the company’s strategy to achieve these objectives. During 2012, the company further defined its strategic objectives by identifying four key strategic growth vectors: advancing the core portfolio globally, driving innovation through the R&D pipeline, enhancing growth with acquisitions and collaborations, and developing unique public-private partnerships.  

Advancing the Core Portfolio Globally  

Baxter is well-positioned in the market, despite challenging global economic conditions, due to the breadth and diversity of the company’s portfolio, which will serve as a solid foundation for future growth. In the BioScience business, the company’s products treat bleeding disorders and a range of immune and neurological disorders, both of which are under-diagnosed and under-treated globally. The Medical Products business offers innovative products for treatment of end-stage renal disease and other therapies and technologies supporting the work of hospital pharmacies and serving the needs of patients in acute care settings.  

While Baxter is a leader in several of the markets noted above, there is significant potential to expand across the company’s core portfolio by ensuring improved access to Baxter’s portfolio, bringing the benefits of these products to more patients globally. The starting point for this growth will be through geographic expansion, new  

19  

Table of Contents 

 indications, broader access, increased diagnosis, and differentiated value. Through continued innovation, investment and collaboration, Baxter seeks to advance new therapies, improve the safety and cost-effectiveness of treatments and expand access to care.  

Baxter has focused on increasing access to plasma-based treatments as a key area to advance the company’s core portfolio. With demand for plasma-based products growing, in 2012 Baxter initiated construction of a new, state-of-the-art plasma fractionation facility in Covington, Georgia. The expected capital investment of over $1 billion over five years will add up to three million liters of annual fractionation capacity to Baxter’s existing production levels, and will provide the flexibility to support further expansion in the future. Commercial operation of the new facility is expected to begin in 2018.  

Baxter also maintains focus on continued international penetration for many of our products, including bringing new recombinant therapy options to more hemophilia patients worldwide. In 2012, Baxter announced the approval in China of ADVATE [Recombinant Human Coagulation Factor VIII for injection] for the control and prophylaxis of bleeding episodes in individuals with hemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency). Refer to the discussion below for additional information on recent ADVATE developments.  

Additionally, Baxter has expanded its offerings to hospital pharmacies through the launch of new products and expansion of existing products into new markets. The company’s portfolio includes premixed parenteral, or intravenous, nutrition products; premixed drugs; IV infusion pumps and administration sets; inhaled anesthetics, and other specialty pharmaceuticals. Baxter launched a line of triple-chamber parenteral nutrition systems in 2011 with NUMETA (emulsion for infusion), which became available in several countries in 2012, particularly throughout Europe. During 2012, the company introduced its latest triple-chamber system for adults, OLIMEL (Amino Acids, Dextrose and Lipids, with/without Electrolytes), into new markets in Asia-Pacific, Europe and Latin America.  

Driving Innovation through the R&D Pipeline  

R&D innovation and scientific productivity continue to be key strategic priorities for Baxter. Key developments in 2012 included the following:  

Expanding portfolio with new product launches in key geographic regions:  

   •    Regulatory approval in China for ADVATE for the control and prophylaxis of bleeding episodes in individuals with hemophilia A, with an expected product launch in 2013. With this action, ADVATE is now approved in over 50 countries worldwide;  

   •    Approval of OLIMEL in Asia-Pacific, Europe, Latin America and Canada and NUMETA (pediatric nutritional emulsion for infusion) in select European countries;  

   •    U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Infusion (Human)] 10% as a treatment for multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN), the first immunoglobulin treatment approved for MMN patients in the United States;  

   •    FDA approval of TISSEEL [Fibrin Sealant] to include the indication for general hemostasis in surgery when control of bleeding by standard surgical techniques is ineffective or impractical;  

   •    Regulatory approval in Europe for VEPACEL, a pre-pandemic influenza vaccine against the H5N1 subtype of influenza A (commonly known as bird or avian flu), in all European Union Member States; and  

   •    FDA approval and launch of a new 4000 IU dosage strength of ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method]. As the only company to offer a 4000 IU dosage strength, Baxter provides the convenience of a single vial dosing opportunity for many adult patients.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Products in late-stage development:  

   •    Initiation of a second, confirmatory Phase III trial of Baxter’s clinical program evaluating the use of its GAMMAGARD LIQUID 10% (marketed as KIOVIG outside the United States and Canada), for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease, and  

   •    Initiation of a Phase III pivotal clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of adult autologous (an individual’s own) CD34+ stem cells primarily to increase exercise capacity and secondarily to reduce chest pain frequency in patients with otherwise unmanageable heart disease, based on a biological regenerative approach.  

Increasing R&D investment in key focus areas:  

   •    Completion of a Phase I clinical trial of the company’s lead investigational candidate, BAX 855, a longer-acting (PEGylated) form of a full-length recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) protein, to assess the frequency of infusions in previously treated patients with severe hemophilia A;  

   •    Completion of the first U.S. study of the company’s home HD system and initiation of a nocturnal in-center trial in Canada. Data from both trials will support the company’s submission for CE Mark in Europe in 2013;  

   •    Submission of a biologics license application to FDA for approval of BAX 326, a recombinant factor IX (rFIX) protein being investigated for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding episodes for patients over 12 years of age with hemophilia B; and  

   •    Initiation of a Phase I clinical trial for patients with malignant solid tumors evaluating a fully-human, recombinant anti-MIF (anti-macrophage migration inhibitory factor) monoclonal antibody with potential to be a new therapeutic agent in treatment of cancer.  

Enhancing Growth with Acquisitions and Collaborations  

Baxter has accelerated its pace of acquisitions and collaborations in recent years. Key developments in 2012 included the following:  

   •    The acquisition of Synovis Life Technologies, Inc. (Synovis), a publicly-traded company that provides biological and mechanical products for soft tissue repair used in a variety of surgical procedures, which complements and expands the portfolio of Baxter’s biosurgery products;  

   •    The exercise of an option to purchase the remaining equity of Sigma International General Medical Apparatus, LLC (SIGMA), which culminated the relationship that began in 2009 when Baxter acquired a 40% stake in SIGMA and became the exclusive global distributor of SIGMA’s smart infusion pump technology;  

   •    The execution of a European licensing agreement with Onconova Therapeutics, Inc. (Onconova) for rigosertib, a novel targeted anti-cancer compound currently in a Phase III study for the treatment of a group of rare hematologic malignancies called Myelodysplastic Syndromes and a Phase II/III study for pancreatic cancer, with Baxter obtaining commercialization rights in Europe for these indications;  

   •    The execution of an exclusive agreement with Chatham Therapeutics, LLC (Chatham) for the development and commercialization of potential treatments for hemophilia B utilizing Chatham’s gene therapy technology; and  

   •    The commencement of activities under the collaboration agreement with Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Momenta) to develop and commercialize up to six follow-on biologic products, also known as biosimilars, which replicate existing, branded biologics used in the treatment of a number of diseases, including cancer, autoimmune disorders and other chronic conditions. The company selected three products under the collaboration agreement during 2012.  

21  

Table of Contents 

Baxter also continues to benefit from the integration of prior year acquisitions, including the 2011 acquisition of Baxa Corporation (Baxa), a privately-held company that manufactures and markets devices, systems and software for the safe and efficient preparation, handling, packaging and administration of fluid medications. The acquisition complements Baxter’s existing portfolio of nutrition and drug delivery systems and provides Baxter with a comprehensive solution to fulfill the majority of patients’ nutritional requirements and increase efficiency in the pharmacy.  

In 2012, Baxter began to make equity investments in companies developing high-potential technologies through Baxter Ventures, a strategic initiative established in 2011 to invest in early-stage companies developing products and therapies to accelerate innovation and growth for the company.  

The company expects to continue to further supplement its internal R&D activities and pursue accelerated growth by fully capitalizing on Baxter’s diversified healthcare model with its investment in other business development opportunities, including acquisitions, collaborations and alliances, that complement our current businesses, enhance our portfolio, and leverage our core strengths.  

Gambro AB  

In December 2012, Baxter entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Gambro AB (Gambro), a privately held dialysis product company based in Lund, Sweden. Gambro is a global medical technology company focused on developing, manufacturing and supplying dialysis products and therapies for patients with acute or chronic kidney disease. The transaction will provide Baxter with a broad and complementary dialysis product portfolio, while further advancing the company’s geographic footprint in the dialysis business. In addition, the company will augment its pipeline by adding Gambro’s next-generation monitors, dialyzers, devices and dialysis solutions. Under the terms of the agreement, Baxter will provide total consideration of approximately $4 billion for the acquisition, including pre-acquisition debt. The transaction is expected to close at the end of the second quarter of 2013, subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions.  

The company plans to issue at least $3.0 billion of debt during the first half of 2013 to fund the planned acquisition of Gambro, which will significantly increase the company’s outstanding debt. As a result, stock repurchases in 2013 are expected to decline from 2012 and 2011 levels. Additionally, the acquisition of Gambro is expected to have a dilutive impact on earnings in 2013 of $0.10 to $0.15 per diluted share, assuming the transaction closes at the end of the second quarter of 2013.  

Inspiration BioPharmaceuticals, Inc. / Ipsen Pharma S.A.S.  

In January 2013, Baxter agreed to acquire the investigational hemophilia compound OBI-1 and related assets from Inspiration BioPharmaceuticals, Inc. (Inspiration), as well as certain other OBI-1 related assets, including manufacturing operations, from Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. in conjunction with Inspiration’s ongoing bankruptcy proceedings. OBI-1 is a recombinant porcine factor VIII (rpFVIII) being investigated for treatment of bleeding in people with acquired hemophilia A and congenital hemophilia A patients with inhibitors, and is currently in Phase III clinical studies.  

Under the terms of the agreement, Baxter will make an upfront payment of $50 million for the OBI-1 assets, including the manufacturing operations. In the future, Baxter may make payments of up to $20 million based on regulatory approval of the acquired hemophilia A indication in the United States and first additional country. Additional payments may be due upon approval of additional indications, through net sales payments, and as sales milestones when sales exceed $100 million. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is currently under review by the Federal Trade Commission.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Public-Private Partnerships  

In addition to the company’s business development activities, Baxter is focused on pursuing innovation through unique business models and the development of public-private partnerships. During 2012, the company entered into the following public-private partnerships:  

   •    An exclusive 20-year partnership with Hemobrás to provide hemophilia patients in Brazil greater access to recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) therapy for the treatment of hemophilia A. Through this innovative partnership, Baxter will be the exclusive provider of Brazil’s recombinant FVIII treatment over the next 10 years, while the companies work together on the technology transfer to support development of local manufacturing capacity. Baxter will receive cash payments for product it supplies to Hemobrás and, following completion of the technology transfer, royalties on recombinant FVIII produced by Hemobrás;  

   •    A 10-year contract manufacturing agreement with Sanquin Blood Supply Foundation of the Netherlands to enhance supply of plasma-derived treatments for immune disorders, hemophilia, trauma and other critical conditions (with production scheduled to begin in 2014); and  

   •    A partnership with China’s National Institute of Hospital Administration under the Ministry of Health to help improve access to PD in China’s rural communities.  

In addition to the above public-private partnerships, in 2012 Baxter also started construction of a new PD manufacturing facility in Thailand, supporting the country’s efforts to reinforce PD as its first-line dialysis treatment.  

Responsible Corporate Citizen  

The company strives for continued growth and profitability, while maintaining and accelerating its focus on acting as a responsible corporate citizen. At Baxter, sustainability means creating a lasting social, environmental and economic value by addressing the needs of the company’s wide-ranging stakeholder base.  

Baxter’s comprehensive sustainability program is focused on areas where the company is uniquely positioned to make a positive impact. Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation provide financial support and product donations in support of critical needs, from assisting underserved communities to providing emergency relief for countries experiencing natural disasters.  

Baxter’s priorities also include sound environmental stewardship. Throughout 2012 the company continued to implement a range of water conservation strategies and facility-based energy saving initiatives. In the area of product stewardship and life cycle management, Baxter is pursuing efforts such as sustainable design and reduced packaging. Baxter is also responding to the challenges of climate change through innovative greenhouse gas emissions-reduction programs, such as shifting to less carbon-intensive energy sources and modes of product transport.  

Risk Factors  

The company’s ability to sustain long-term growth and successfully execute the strategies discussed above depends in part on the company’s ability to manage within an increasingly competitive and regulated environment and to address the other risk factors described in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

23  

Table of Contents 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Special Items  

The company’s results of operations included special items that have been excluded from its non-GAAP measures provided in the Financial Results section above. The following table provides a summary of the impact of special items on the company’s results of operations for 2012, 2011, and 2010.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The company believes that these non-GAAP measures, when used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP, may provide a more complete understanding of the company’s operations and may facilitate a fuller analysis of the company’s results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.  

24  

Table of Contents 

In 2012 and 2010, the company’s results were impacted by certain items related to the recall of the company’s COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market and other actions the company is taking outside of the United States. In 2010, the company recorded a $588 million charge related to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump recall, with $213 million recorded as a reduction of net sales and $375 million recorded in cost of sales. In 2012, the company recognized a net benefit of $23 million in cost of sales primarily related to an adjustment to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump reserve when the company substantially completed its recall activities in the United States. Refer to Note 6 for further information regarding the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge and related reserve adjustment.  

In 2012, 2011 and 2010, the company’s results were impacted by costs associated with actions implemented by the company to optimize its overall cost structure on a global basis. These actions included streamlining the company’s international operations, rationalizing its manufacturing facilities, improving its general and administrative infrastructure, and, in 2012, re-aligning certain R&D activities. The company recorded pre-tax business optimization charges of $150 million, $192 million, and $257 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, which impacted cost of sales, marketing and administrative expenses, and, in 2012, R&D expenses. Refer to Note 6 for further information regarding these charges.  

In 2012, the company also recorded pre-tax charges of $170 million primarily related to pension settlement charges and other pension-related items, and business development charges of $128 million principally related to upfront payments for collaboration agreements. Also included in 2012 results were gains of $53 million in the first quarter of 2012 and $38 million in the second quarter of 2012 for the reduction of certain contingent payment liabilities related to the prior acquisitions of Prism Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Prism) and ApaTech Limited (ApaTech), respectively. Refer to Note 11 for further information regarding the pension settlement charges, Note 4 for further information regarding the business development charges, and Note 8 for further information regarding the gains from reductions of contingent payment liabilities.  

In 2011, the company also recorded pre-tax charges of $79 million related to the resolution of litigation pertaining to average wholesale prices (AWP) and certain historical rebate and discount adjustments, $62 million in asset impairments primarily related to the write-down of Greek government bonds, and $41 million principally related to a contribution to the Baxter International Foundation.  

In 2010, the company also recorded a $112 million impairment charge associated with the company’s divestiture of its U.S. multi-source generic injectables business, a $62 million litigation-related charge, a $39 million charge to write off a deferred tax asset, business development charges of $34 million and a $28 million charge to write down accounts receivable in Greece.  

25  

Table of Contents 

Net Sales  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Foreign currency unfavorably impacted net sales by 3 percentage points in 2012 principally due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro. Foreign currency favorably impacted net sales by 2 percentage points in 2011, principally due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro, the Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, total net sales growth was 5% and 6% in 2012 and 2011, respectively, primarily driven by improved sales volumes (demand).  

In 2012, the recent acquisitions of Synovis and Baxa contributed 2 percentage points towards sales growth during 2012. Total net sales growth in 2011 was favorably impacted by 2 percentage points due to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge, which reduced net sales in the Medical Products segment in 2010 by $213 million. Additionally, included in net sales in the Medical Products segment were sales of $58 million and $198 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business, which was divested by the company in the first half of 2011. The divestiture of this business unfavorably impacted total net sales growth by 1 percentage point in both 2012 and 2011. Refer to Note 2 for further information regarding this divestiture, Note 4 for further information regarding the Synovis and Baxa acquisitions, and Note 6 for further information regarding the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge.  

The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency sales at the prior year’s foreign exchange rates. This measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and the current period. The company believes that the non-GAAP measure of change in net sales at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the GAAP measure of change in net sales at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding of the company’s operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company’s results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.  

26  

Table of Contents 

BioScience  

The following is a summary of net sales by product category in the BioScience segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net sales in the BioScience segment increased 3% and 7% in 2012 and 2011, respectively (with an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3 percentage points in 2012 and a favorable foreign currency impact of 2 percentage points in 2011). Excluding the impact of foreign currency, the principal drivers impacting net sales were the following:  

   •    In the Recombinants product category, sales growth in both years was driven primarily by strong U.S. demand for the company’s advanced recombinant therapy, ADVATE. Sales growth was partially offset by lower tender sales in Australia in 2012 and in the United Kingdom in 2011.  

   •    In the Antibody Therapy product category, sales increased in both years primarily as a result of demand in the United States for GAMMAGARD LIQUID, the liquid formulation of the antibody replacement therapy. Also contributing to sales growth in 2012 was the favorable impact from pricing benefits related to shifts in geographic mix as the company optimized its global supply in light of a planned, temporary facility shutdown during the second half of 2012. Sales growth in 2011 was favorably impacted by incremental volume resulting from a competitor being out of the market, while the return of the competitor to the market partially offset sales growth in 2012.  

   •    Sales in the Plasma Proteins product category were favorably impacted in both years by strong demand for FEIBA (an anti-inhibitor bypass therapy). Also contributing to sales growth in 2012 were improved sales of alpha-1 products (for treatment of hereditary emphysema) and higher international sales of albumin. Sales growth in 2011 was also driven by improved demand for plasma-derived factor VIII after a reduction in sales in 2010.  

   •    In the Regenerative Medicine product category, sales in 2012 increased primarily as a result of the first quarter 2012 acquisition of Synovis, a biological and mechanical products company. Also contributing to sales growth in both years was increased global demand for the company’s surgical sealants, including FLOSEAL and TISSEEL. Partially offsetting this growth in both years were lower U.S. sales of ACTIFUSE bone void filler products.  

   •    In the Other product category, sales growth in 2012 was primarily driven by higher international sales of FSME-IMMUN (a tick-borne encephalitis vaccine) and milestone payments related to ongoing collaborations with governments on the development of influenza vaccines. In 2011, strong sales of FSME-IMMUN driven by strong international demand were more than offset by lower influenza revenues, as the first quarter of 2010 benefited from sales of CELVAPAN H1N1 pandemic vaccine.  

27  

Table of Contents 

Medical Products  

The following is a summary of net sales by product category in the Medical Products segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net sales in the Medical Products segment increased 1% and 9% in 2012 and 2011, respectively (with an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3 percentage points in 2012 and a favorable foreign currency impact of 3 percentage points in 2011). Excluding the impact of foreign currency, the principal drivers impacting net sales were the following:  

   •    In the Renal product category, the favorable impact from continued growth in the number of PD patients in Asia, Latin America and the United States for both years was partially offset by lower sales of HD products.  

   •    Sales growth in the Global Injectables product category in 2012 was primarily driven by a price increase for cyclophosphamide (a generic oncology drug) in the United States. Sales in both years benefited from improved sales in the pharmaceutical partnering and pharmacy compounding businesses, in addition to the favorable contribution from the fourth quarter 2011 acquisition of Baxa. The 2011 divestiture of the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business unfavorably impacted total net sales growth by 3 and 9 percentage points during 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

   •    IV Therapies sales growth in both years was driven by increased demand for IV solutions and strong sales of nutrition products, including the favorable impact, particularly in 2012, of the Baxa acquisition. Also contributing to growth in 2011 were market share gains in the United States, partially as a result of competitor supply issues.  

   •    In the Infusion Systems product category, sales declined during 2012 due to lower global sales of access sets used in the administration of IV solutions and lower sales of SIGMA Spectrum infusion pumps, both of which were related to COLLEAGUE infusion pump recall activities in the United States which were substantially completed in July of 2012. Sales growth in 2011 reflected increased sales of SIGMA Spectrum infusion pumps, partially offset by lower global sales of access sets in the second half of the year. Sales growth in 2011 was also favorably impacted by 33 percentage points as a result of the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge in 2010.  

   •    Within the Anesthesia product category, sales growth in both years was driven primarily by improved international growth from increased penetration of SUPRANE (desflurane) and generic sevoflurane, particularly in Europe and Asia. Sales growth in both years was partially offset by lower demand for inhaled anesthetics in the United States, as well as competitive pricing pressures for generic sevoflurane.  

   •    The Other product category includes revenues of $38 million, $36 million and $46 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with the manufacturing, distribution and other services provided by the company to Fenwal Inc. subsequent to the divestiture of the Transfusion Therapies business in 2007, which had previously been reported separately.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Gross Margin and Expense Ratios  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross Margin  

The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 0.3, 0.7 and 4.7 percentage points on the gross margin percentage in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Refer to the Special Items caption above for additional detail.  

In addition to the impact of the special items, the gross margin percentage in 2012 improved compared to 2011 due to the benefit from sales growth in higher margin products in the BioScience segment, the resolution of prior year manufacturing issues at the company’s Castlebar, Ireland facility, and a modest favorable impact of foreign currency. These improvements in gross margin were partially offset by margin dilution from business development activities, increased pension plan costs and government austerity measures.  

In addition to the impact of the special items, the gross margin percentage in 2011 improved compared to 2010 as a result of the benefit from a favorable business mix due to sales growth of select higher margin products in the BioScience and Medical Products segments, as well as the favorable impact of the divestiture of the lower margin U.S. multi-source generic injectables business. Refer to Note 2 for further information regarding the divestiture. Partially offsetting these improvements were costs associated with manufacturing issues at the Castlebar, Ireland facility and an increase in pension plan costs in 2011.  

Marketing and Administrative Expenses  

The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 1.7, 1.6 and 1.5 percentage points on the marketing and administrative expenses ratio in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Refer to the Special Items caption above for additional detail.  

In addition to the unfavorable impact of the special items, the marketing and administrative expenses ratio in 2012 increased as a result of incremental expenses from the operations of Baxa and Synovis, acquisition-related expenses, additional spending on marketing and promotional programs, and an increase in pension plan costs as described below. These factors were partially offset by savings from the company’s business optimization initiatives and the company’s continued focus on controlling discretionary spending.  

Excluding the impact of the special items, the ratio in 2011 was flat to 2010 as the favorable impact of leverage from higher sales and the company’s focus on controlling discretionary spending was fully offset by increased spending relating to certain marketing and promotional programs and increased pension plan costs, as described below.  

Pension Plan Costs  

Fluctuations in pension plan costs impacted the company’s gross margin and expense ratios. Pension plan costs increased $211 million in 2012 and $53 million in 2011, as detailed in Note 11. The 2012 pension plan costs included settlement charges of $168 million primarily related to the settlement of certain U.S. pension obligations. The increase in both 2012 and 2011 was also driven by lower interest rates used to discount the plans’ projected benefit obligations and an increase in amortization of actuarial losses. The increases in 2012 and 2011 were partially offset by the favorable impact of additional returns on assets due to discretionary cash contributions of $150 million and $350 million made to the pension plan in the United States in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Excluding the settlement charge discussed above, costs of the company’s pension plans are expected to increase from $266 million in 2012 to approximately $330 million in 2013, principally due to lower interest rates used to discount the plans’ projected benefit obligations, a decrease in the expected return on plan assets assumption, and an increase in amortization of actuarial losses. The amortization of deferred losses is expected to increase in 2013 to $245 million from $209 million in 2012, and will be partially offset by the impact of the immediate recognition of deferred losses of $168 million in 2012 associated with the settlement of certain plan obligations. Refer to Note 11 for further information on the pension plans.  

Research and Development  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

R&D expenses increased in both 2012 and 2011. In addition to the special items identified above, R&D expenses also increased in both years as the company continued to invest in a number of late-stage R&D programs across its product pipeline, while reaching certain milestone achievements resulting in additional R&D spending in 2012. Refer to the discussion under Strategic Objectives above for additional detail.  

Net Interest Expense  

Net interest expense increased by $33 million in 2012 and decreased by $33 million in 2011. The increase in 2012 was principally driven by an increase in debt from the issuances of $500 million 1.85% senior unsecured notes in December 2011, and $700 million 2.40% senior unsecured notes and $300 million 3.65% senior unsecured notes in August 2012, as well as lower interest income. The decrease in 2011 was principally due to an increase in interest income and the impact of lower weighted-average interest rates due to the maturity of Baxter’s 4.75% $500 million notes in October 2010. Refer to Note 2 for a summary of the components of net interest expense for 2012, 2011 and 2010.  

Other (Income) Expense, Net  

Other (income) expense, net was $155 million of income in 2012, and $83 million and $159 million of expense in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Refer to Note 2 for a table that details the components of other (income) expense, net for the three years ended December 31, 2012. Other (income) expense, net in each year included amounts relating to equity method investments and foreign currency fluctuations, principally relating to intercompany receivables, payables and loans denominated in a foreign currency.  

During 2012, other (income) expense, net included gains of $53 million and $38 million for the reduction of certain contingent payment liabilities related to the prior acquisitions of Prism and ApaTech, respectively. Additionally, other (income) expense, net included the benefit from a net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of $28 million in 2012, which was prospectively classified as other (income) expense, net effective January 1, 2012.  

During 2011, other (income) expense, net included asset impairment charges totaling $62 million primarily related to the write-down of Greek government bonds. Included in other (income) expense, net in 2010 was an impairment charge of $112 million associated with the company’s divestiture of its U.S. multi-source generic injectables business and a charge of $62 million associated with litigation related to the company’s 2008 recall of its heparin sodium injection products in the United States.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Pre-Tax Income  

Refer to Note 14 for a summary of financial results by segment. The following is a summary of significant factors impacting the segments’ financial results.  

BioScience  

Pre-tax income decreased 4% in 2012 and increased 8% in 2011. Included in pre-tax income during 2012 were business development charges of $123 million, primarily related to R&D charges of $50 million, $30 million and $33 million associated with the company’s collaborations with Onconova, Chatham and Momenta, respectively, and a gain of $38 million related to the reduction of a contingent payment liability for certain milestones associated with the 2010 acquisition of ApaTech.  

Excluding the impact of the above items, pre-tax income in 2012 declined by 1% as sales growth of certain higher margin products was more than offset by an increase in spending on R&D driven by funding of key programs and the achievement of certain milestones, increased spending on new marketing and promotional programs, and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency.  

During 2011, sales growth for certain higher margin products and improved margins on plasma-based therapies were partially offset by an increase in spending on new marketing and promotional programs. Also contributing to the increase in pre-tax income were lower inventory reserves related to vaccine products in 2011.  

Medical Products  

Pre-tax income increased 5% and 130% in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Included in pre-tax income in 2012 was a gain of $53 million related to the reduction of the contingent payment liability for certain milestones associated with the 2011 acquisition of Prism and a net benefit from reserve adjustments of $23 million, which primarily related to an adjustment to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump reserves. Included in pre-tax income in 2010 was a charge of $588 million related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market, the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business impairment charge of $112 million, and a charge of $62 million associated with litigation related to the company’s 2008 recall of its heparin sodium injection products in the United States.  

Excluding the impact of the above items from 2012, pre-tax income in 2012 was flat to 2011 as the favorable impact of the resolution of prior year manufacturing issues at the company’s Castlebar, Ireland facility was offset by increases in R&D spending, increases in marketing and administrative expenses, and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency.  

In addition to the favorable impact of the above items from 2010, pre-tax income in 2011 also benefited from sales growth for certain higher margin products, partially offset by increased R&D spending and costs associated with manufacturing issues at the company’s Castlebar, Ireland facility.  

Other  

Certain income and expense amounts are not allocated to a segment. These amounts are detailed in the table in Note 14 and primarily include net interest expense, certain foreign exchange fluctuations (principally relating to intercompany receivables, payables and loans denominated in foreign currency) and certain foreign currency hedging activities, corporate headquarters costs, stock compensation expense, income and expense related to certain non-strategic investments, certain employee benefit plan costs (including the 2012 pension settlement charges), certain nonrecurring gains and losses, certain charges (such as the business optimization, AWP litigation and historical price reporting, asset impairment, and certain business development charges), and contributions to the Baxter International Foundation.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Income Taxes  

Effective Income Tax Rate  

The effective income tax rate was 20% in both 2012 and 2011, and 25% in 2010. The company anticipates that the effective income tax rate, calculated in accordance with GAAP, will be approximately 22% in 2013, excluding any impact from additional audit developments or other special items. On January 2, 2013, the President signed the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. The company does not expect the enacted legislation to materially impact its effective income tax rate.  

The company’s effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate each year due to certain operations that are subject to tax incentives, state and local taxes and foreign taxes that are different than the U.S. federal statutory rate. In addition, as discussed further below, the company’s effective income tax rate can be impacted in each year by discrete factors or events. Refer to Note 12 for further information regarding the company’s income taxes.  

Factors impacting the company’s effective tax rate in 2012 were gains of $53 million and $38 million for the reduction of certain contingent payment liabilities related to the prior acquisitions of Prism and ApaTech, respectively, for which there were no tax charges. Also impacting the effective tax rate was a cost of sales reduction of $37 million for an adjustment to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump reserves when the company substantially completed the recall in the United States in 2012, for which there was no tax charge. These items were offset by a change in the earnings mix from lower tax to higher tax rate jurisdictions compared to the prior year period.  

The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2011 was primarily related to tax benefits from the business optimization charge, the AWP litigation and historical price reporting charge, and other charges in 2011 which were incurred in jurisdictions with rates higher than the effective rate. Also impacting the comparison of 2011 to 2010 were certain items that drove the 2010 rate higher including a charge of $588 million in 2010 related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market for which there was no net tax benefit recognized, a $39 million write-off of a deferred tax asset in 2010 as a result of a change in the tax treatment of reimbursements under the Medicare Part D retiree prescription drug subsidy program under healthcare reform legislation enacted in the United States, and $34 million of business development charges in 2010 for which the tax benefit was lower than the U.S. statutory rate.  

Uncertain Tax Positions  

Baxter expects to reduce the amount of its liability for uncertain tax positions within the next 12 months by $299 million due principally to the resolution of certain multi-jurisdictional transfer pricing issues and the resolution of tax contingencies in certain foreign jurisdictions. While the final outcome of these matters is inherently uncertain, the company believes it has made adequate tax provisions for all years subject to examination.  

Income and Earnings per Diluted Share 

Net income attributable to Baxter was $2.3 billion in 2012, $2.2 billion in 2011 and $1.4 billion in 2010. The corresponding net earnings per diluted share were $4.18 in 2012, $3.88 in 2011 and $2.39 in 2010. The significant factors and events causing the net changes from 2011 to 2012 and from 2010 to 2011 are discussed above. Additionally, net income attributable to Baxter per diluted share was positively impacted by the repurchase of 25 million shares in 2012 and 30 million shares in both 2011 and 2010. Refer to Note 10 for further information regarding the company’s stock repurchases.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Cash Flows from Operations  

Cash flows from operations totaled $3.1 billion in 2012, $2.8 billion in 2011 and $3.0 billion in 2010. The increase in cash flows in 2012 from 2011 was primarily due to the factors discussed below and was partially  

32  

Table of Contents 

 offset by lower earnings (before non-cash items and adjustments). Other non-cash items and adjustments of $42 million in 2012 included non-cash gains of $91 million from the reduction of certain contingent payment liabilities from prior acquisitions. Also included in other non-cash items and adjustments in 2012 was $113 million in R&D charges associated with upfront payments made for the execution of 2012 collaboration agreements, which have been included in cash flows from investing activities. The decrease in cash flows in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the factors discussed below and was partially offset by higher earnings (before non-cash items and adjustments).  

Accounts Receivable  

Cash flows relating to accounts receivable increased during 2012 and decreased during 2011. Days sales outstanding were 53.3 days, 53.5 days and 52.5 days for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in 2012 was due to collections of certain past due balances in Europe, partially offset by longer collection periods in the United States and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency. The increase in 2011 was primarily due to longer collection periods in certain international markets and the geographic mix of sales.  

Inventories  

Cash outflows for inventories decreased in 2012 and increased in 2011. The following is a summary of inventories at December 31, 2012 and 2011, as well as inventory turns by segment for 2012, 2011 and 2010. Inventory turns for the year are calculated as the annualized fourth quarter cost of sales divided by the year-end inventory balance.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in inventories in 2012 was principally due to higher levels of plasma protein-related inventories in the BioScience segment to replenish and build inventory for future growth, as well as higher inventories of SIGMA Spectrum infusion pumps and additional inventory levels related to Baxa operations in the Medical Products segment.  

Inventory turns for the total company in 2012 were unfavorably impacted by the increase in inventories and the lower business optimization charge recorded in cost of sales in 2012 as compared to 2011. Of the total charge, $62 million was recorded in cost of sales in 2012 compared to $95 million in 2011. The business optimization charges in 2012 and 2011 impacted inventory turns by 0.09 and 0.15, respectively. The lower inventory turns for the total company in 2011 were driven by the increase in inventories and the impact of the lower 2011 business optimization charge recorded in cost of sales in 2011 as compared to 2010. Refer to Note 6 for further information regarding these charges.  

Other  

Payments related to the execution of the COLLEAGUE infusion pump recall and the company’s business optimization initiatives increased $237 million in 2011 and decreased $64 million in 2012 as the company completed its recall activities in the United States in July 2012. Refer to Note 6 for further information regarding the COLLEAGUE infusion pump recall and the business optimization initiatives.  

Cash flows from operations were favorably impacted by $138 million from changes in other balance sheet items during 2012, compared to $8 million during 2011. This change was principally due to the impact of a discretionary cash contribution of $150 million to the company’s pension plan in the United States in 2011. Cash contributions to the company’s pension plans totaled $78 million, $251 million and $416 million in 2012, 2011  

33  

Table of Contents 

 and 2010, respectively, and included discretionary cash contributions to the company’s U.S. pension plan of $150 million and $350 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Cash Flows from Investing Activities  

Capital Expenditures  

Capital expenditures totaled $1.2 billion in 2012, $960 million in 2011 and $963 million in 2010. The company’s investments in capital expenditures in 2012 were primarily driven by additional investments in support of new and existing product capacity expansions in the BioScience segment. The company also invested in projects that enhance the company’s cost structure and manufacturing capabilities and support the company’s strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets.  

In April 2012, the company announced the selection of a site in Covington, Georgia for a new manufacturing facility to support longer-term growth of the company’s plasma-based treatments. Construction of the facility began in August 2012, and the facility is expected to start commercial production in 2018. Baxter plans to invest more than $1 billion over the next five years in the facility.  

In addition, the company continues to invest to support an ongoing strategic focus on R&D with the expansion of facilities, pilot manufacturing sites and laboratories. Capital expenditures also included the company’s multi-year initiative to implement a global enterprise resource planning system designed to consolidate and standardize business processes, data and systems.  

The company makes investments in capital expenditures at a level sufficient to support the strategic and operating needs of the businesses, and continues to improve capital allocation discipline in making investments to enhance long-term growth. The company expects to invest approximately $1.7 billion in capital expenditures in 2013, with the increase primarily driven by expected capital expenditures related to the construction of the facility in Covington, Georgia, and Gambro-related expenditures.  

Acquisitions and Investments  

Net cash outflows related to acquisitions and investments were $515 million in 2012, $590 million in 2011 and $319 million in 2010. Cash outflows in 2012 included $304 million associated with the acquisition of Synovis, $19 million related to the acquisition of Laboratoire Fasonut, and $50 million for an investment in the preferred stock of Onconova. Also included in cash outflows related to acquisitions and investments in 2012 were upfront payments of $113 million made to execute collaboration agreements during the period. Refer to Note 4 for further information about these acquisitions and investments.  

The cash outflows in 2011 principally included $360 million related to the acquisition of Baxa (which excludes a working capital adjustment received in 2012) and $170 million associated with the acquisition of Prism, as well as an $18 million payment to exercise an option related to the company’s collaboration agreement for the development of a home HD machine. Also included in cash outflows in 2011 were $18 million related to an investment in the common stock of Enobia Pharma Corporation (Enobia) and a $10 million payment related to the arrangement with Ceremed, Inc. Refer to Note 4 for further information about the Baxa and Prism acquisitions and Note 8 for further information about the investment in Enobia.  

The cash outflows in 2010 principally included $235 million related to the acquisition of ApaTech. Also included in net cash outflows in 2010 were payments of $30 million related to the licensing and acquisition of hemophilia-related intellectual property and other assets from Archemix Corp., $28 million related to a manufacturing, supply and distribution agreement with Kamada Ltd. for GLASSIA [Alpha1-Proteinase Inhibitor (Human)] (for treatment of hereditary emphysema), and $18 million related to the company’s collaboration agreement for the development of a home HD machine.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Divestitures and Other Investing Activities  

Net cash inflows relating to divestitures and other investing activities were $107 million in 2012, $123 million in 2011 and $18 million in 2010. Cash inflows in 2012 primarily related to proceeds of $59 million from the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities (including the sale of Greek government bonds) and $19 million from the sale of the common stock of Enobia.  

Cash inflows in 2011 principally consisted of proceeds associated with the company’s divestiture of its U.S. multi-source generic injectables business in May 2011. Cash inflows in 2010 principally consisted of proceeds from the divestiture of certain Renal Therapy Services centers in Australia.  

Cash Flows from Financing Activities  

Debt Issuances, Net of Payments of Obligations  

Net cash inflows related to debt and other financing obligations were $765 million in 2012, $733 million in 2011, and $91 million in 2010. Net cash inflows in 2012 primarily related to the issuance of $1.0 billion of senior notes in August 2012, partially offset by the repayment of outstanding commercial paper, as further described in Note 7.  

In August 2012, the company issued $1.0 billion of senior notes, with $700 million maturing in August 2022 and bearing a 2.40% coupon rate, and $300 million maturing in August 2042 and bearing a 3.65% coupon rate. The net proceeds of the debt issuance are being used for general corporate purposes, which includes capital expenditures associated with previously announced plans to expand capacity to support longer-term growth of the company’s plasma-based treatments, including with respect to the Covington, Georgia facility.  

In December 2011, the company issued $500 million of senior notes, maturing in January 2017 and bearing a 1.85% coupon rate. In addition, during 2011, the company issued and redeemed commercial paper, of which $250 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2011, with a weighted-average interest rate of 0.24%. In March 2010, the company issued $600 million of senior notes, with $300 million maturing in March 2013 and bearing a 1.8% coupon rate and $300 million maturing in March 2020 and bearing a 4.25% coupon rate. The net proceeds from these issuances were used for general corporate purposes, including in some cases the refinancing of indebtedness.  

In 2010, the company repaid $500 million of its 4.75% notes and settled related cross-currency swaps, both upon their maturity in October 2010, resulting in a cash outflow of $545 million.  

The company’s debt instruments discussed above are unsecured and include certain covenants, including restrictions relating to the company’s creation of secured debt.  

Other Financing Activities  

Cash dividend payments totaled $804 million in 2012, $709 million in 2011 and $688 million in 2010. In November 2012, the board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.45 per share ($1.80 per share on an annualized basis), which was paid on January 3, 2013 to shareholders of record as of December 7, 2012. In July 2012, the board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.45 per share ($1.80 per share on an annualized basis), which represented an increase of 34% over the previous quarterly rate. In November 2011, the board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.335 per share ($1.34 per share on an annualized basis), which represented an increase of 8% over the previous quarterly rate.  

Proceeds and realized excess tax benefits from stock issued under employee benefit plans totaled $512 million, $448 million and $381 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in 2012 was mainly due to increases in stock option exercises and the weighted-average exercise price. In 2011, an increase in stock option exercises and the weighted-average exercise price was partially offset by a decrease in realized excess tax benefits. Realized excess tax benefits, which were $24 million in 2012, $21 million in 2011 and $41 million in  

35  

Table of Contents 

 2010, are presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an outflow in the operating section and an inflow in the financing section.  

As authorized by the board of directors, the company repurchases its stock depending on the company’s cash flows, net debt level and market conditions. The company repurchased 25 million shares for $1.5 billion in 2012, 30 million shares for $1.6 billion in 2011 and 30 million shares for $1.5 billion in 2010. In December 2010, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of the company’s common stock, which was fully utilized as of December 31, 2012. In July 2012, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of the company’s common stock and $1.9 billion remained available as of December 31, 2012. The company expects to incur significant debt in 2013 related to the planned acquisition of Gambro and, as a result, stock repurchases in 2013 are expected to decline from 2012 and 2011 levels.  

Also included in financing activities in 2012 was a payment of $90 million for the exercise of the SIGMA purchase option. Refer to Note 2 for additional information.  

Credit Facilities, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings  

Credit Facilities  

The company’s primary revolving credit facility has a maximum capacity of $1.5 billion and matures in June 2015. The company also maintains a Euro-denominated credit facility with a maximum capacity of approximately $389 million at December 31, 2012. In 2012, the company amended this facility to extend the maturity date to October 2013. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, there were no outstanding borrowings under either of these facilities. The company’s facilities enable the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates (determined, in part, by the company’s credit ratings) and contain various covenants, including a maximum net-debt-to-capital ratio. At December 31, 2012, the company was in compliance with the financial covenants in these agreements. The non-performance of any financial institution supporting either of the credit facilities would reduce the maximum capacity of these facilities by each institution’s respective commitment.  

In January 2013, Baxter entered into an agreement related to a 364-day bridge loan facility with a maximum capacity of $3.1 billion in connection with the planned acquisition of Gambro. The terms of the bridge loan facility are substantially similar to the terms of the company’s primary revolving credit facility. The company intends to finance the transaction with off-shore cash and the issuance of at least $3.0 billion of debt. The company does not anticipate utilizing the bridge loan facility.  

The company also maintains other credit arrangements, as described in Note 7.  

Access to Capital  

The company intends to fund short-term and long-term obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from operations or by issuing additional debt. The company had $3.3 billion of cash and equivalents at December 31, 2012, with adequate cash available to meet operating requirements in each jurisdiction in which the company operates. The company invests its excess cash in certificates of deposit and money market funds, and diversifies the concentration of cash among different financial institutions. The company plans to issue at least $3.0 billion of debt during the first half of 2013 to fund the planned acquisition of Gambro, which will significantly increase the company’s outstanding debt.  

The company’s ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company’s products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, deterioration in the company’s key financial ratios or credit ratings or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. However, the company believes it has sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support the company’s growth objectives.  

36  

Table of Contents 

The company continues to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy, that have experienced a deterioration in credit and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2012, the company’s net accounts receivable from the public sector in Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy totaled $385 million (of which $66 million related to Greece). The company’s net accounts receivable from the public sector for the countries identified above decreased by $139 million during 2012 primarily as a result of the collection of certain past due receivables in Spain. While the economic downturn has not significantly impacted the company’s ability to collect receivables, global economic conditions and liquidity issues in certain countries have resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection of receivables and credit losses.  

With respect to the Greek government bonds, the company collected $17 million in December 2011 upon the maturity of the first tranche of the bonds. However, as a result of continued economic uncertainty and ongoing Greek government negotiations regarding the settlement terms for outstanding bonds, the company recorded an impairment charge of $41 million in 2011 to reduce the remaining Greek government bonds held by the company to estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of these bonds was calculated using a discounted cash flow model that incorporated observable inputs, including interest rate yields. In March 2012, the company’s Greek government debt holdings were restructured into new Greek government bonds with a notional amount of $24 million ranging in maturity from 11 to 30 years, and European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) bonds with a notional amount of $11 million maturing in one to two years. In the second quarter of 2012, the company sold all of its Greek government and EFSF bond holdings, from which the company received $14 million in proceeds. Refer to Note 8 for further information.  

The company also previously recorded a charge of $28 million in 2010 to write down its accounts receivable in Greece principally as a result of the Greek government’s announcement of a plan to convert certain past due receivables into non-interest bearing bonds with maturities of one to three years.  

Credit Ratings  

The company’s credit ratings at December 31, 2012 were as follows.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In 2012, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the company’s senior debt ratings by one notch from A+ to A, and both Fitch and Moody’s changed their outlook from Stable to Negative. These downgrades were a result of the company’s December 2012 announcement of the proposed acquisition of Gambro and the plans to fund the acquisition with at least $3.0 billion of debt, which would significantly increase the company’s debt level.  

If Baxter’s credit ratings or outlooks were to be further downgraded, the company’s financing costs related to its credit arrangements and any future debt issuances could be unfavorably impacted. However, any future credit rating downgrade or change in outlook would not affect the company’s ability to draw on its credit facilities, and would not result in an acceleration of the scheduled maturities of any of the company’s outstanding debt, unless, with respect to certain debt instruments, preceded by a change in control of the company.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations  

As of December 31, 2012, the company had contractual obligations, excluding accounts payable and accrued liabilities (other than the current portion of unrecognized tax benefits), payable or maturing in the following periods.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 1   Interest payments on debt and capital lease obligations are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2012. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates, foreign currency fluctuations or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2012. Refer to Note 7 and Note 8 for further discussion regarding the company’s debt instruments and related interest rate agreements outstanding at December 31, 2012.  

 2   The primary components of other long-term liabilities in the company’s consolidated balance sheet are liabilities relating to pension and other postemployment benefit plans, litigation, foreign currency hedges, and certain income tax-related liabilities. The company projected the timing of the future cash payments based on contractual maturity dates (where applicable) and estimates of the timing of payments (for liabilities with no contractual maturity dates). The actual timing of payments could differ from the estimates.  

The company contributed $78 million, $251 million and $416 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Most of the company’s plans are funded. The timing of funding in the future is uncertain and is dependent on future movements in interest rates and investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Therefore, the table above excludes pension plan cash outflows. The pension plan balance included in other long-term liabilities (and excluded from the table above) totaled $1.7 billion at December 31, 2012.  

 3   Includes the company’s significant contractual unconditional purchase obligations. For cancelable agreements, includes any penalty due upon cancellation. These commitments do not exceed the company’s projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Examples include firm commitments for raw material purchases, utility agreements and service contracts.  

 4   Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions, the long-term liability relating to unrecognized tax benefits of $218 million at December 31, 2012 has been excluded from the table above.  

 5   Excludes contingent liabilities, including contingent milestone payments of $1.5 billion associated with joint development and commercialization arrangements and contingent payments of $305 million associated with acquisitions, as well as the company’s unfunded commitment at December 31, 2012 of $37 million as a limited partner in an investment company. These amounts have been excluded from the contractual obligations above due to uncertainty regarding the timing and amount of future payments. Refer to Note 9 and Note 4 for additional information regarding these commitments.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Baxter periodically enters into off-balance sheet arrangements. Certain contingencies arise in the normal course of business, and are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet in accordance with GAAP (such as contingent joint development and commercialization arrangement payments). Also, upon resolution of uncertainties, the company may incur charges in excess of presently established liabilities for certain matters (such as contractual indemnifications). For a discussion of the company’s significant off-balance sheet arrangements, refer to Note 9 for information regarding joint development and commercialization arrangements and indemnifications, Note 8 regarding receivable securitizations and Note 13 regarding legal contingencies.  

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK  

The company operates on a global basis and is exposed to the risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. The company’s hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company’s judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. Refer to Note 8 for further information regarding the company’s financial instruments and hedging strategies.  

Currency Risk  

The company is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to recognized assets and liabilities, forecasted transactions and net assets denominated in the Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Colombian Peso, and Swedish Krona. The company manages its foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows the company to net exposures and take advantage of any natural offsets. In addition, the company uses derivative and nonderivative financial instruments to further reduce the net exposure to foreign exchange. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and shareholders’ equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. Financial market and currency volatility may limit the company’s ability to cost-effectively hedge these exposures.  

The company may use options, forwards and cross-currency swaps to hedge the foreign exchange risk to earnings relating to forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies and recognized assets and liabilities. The maximum term over which the company has cash flow hedge contracts in place related to forecasted transactions at December 31, 2012 is 12 months. The company also enters into derivative instruments to hedge certain intercompany and third-party receivables and payables and debt denominated in foreign currencies. In December 2012, the company entered into option contracts with a total notional amount of $2.8 billion to hedge anticipated foreign currency cash outflows associated with the planned acquisition of Gambro. These contracts are not formally designated as hedges and mature in June 2013. Changes in the fair value of these contracts are recognized immediately in earnings and may be significant, subjecting the company’s earnings to additional volatility.  

Currency restrictions enacted in Venezuela require Baxter to obtain approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan Bolivars for U.S. Dollars and require such exchange to be made at the official exchange rate established by the government. On January 8, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued the official exchange rate of 2.15 relative to the U.S. Dollar. The official exchange rate for imported goods classified as essential, such as food and medicine, was changed to 2.6, while the rate for payments for non-essential goods was changed to 4.3. In 2010, the majority of the company’s products imported into Venezuela were classified as essential goods and qualified for the 2.6 rate. Effective January 1, 2011, the Venezuelan government devalued the official currency for imported goods classified as essential to 4.3. Since January 1, 2010, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy under GAAP and as a result, the functional currency of the company’s subsidiary in Venezuela is the U.S. Dollar. The devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar and designation of Venezuela as highly inflationary did not have a material impact on the financial results of the company. As of December 31, 2012, the company’s subsidiary in Venezuela had net assets of $35 million denominated in the Venezuelan Bolivar. In 2012, net sales in Venezuela represented less than 1% of Baxter’s  

39  

Table of Contents 

 total net sales. Effective February 8, 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued the official exchange rate from 4.3 to 6.3, which is not expected to have a material impact on the financial results of the company.  

As part of its risk-management program, the company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in the fair value of its foreign exchange instruments relating to hypothetical and reasonably possible near-term movements in foreign exchange rates.  

A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2012, while not predictive in nature, indicated that if the U.S. Dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currencies, on a net-of-tax basis, the net asset balance of $37 million with respect to those contracts would increase by $10 million. A similar analysis performed with respect to option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2011 indicated that, on a net-of-tax basis, the net asset balance of $32 million would decrease by $44 million, resulting in a net liability position.  

The sensitivity analysis model recalculates the fair value of the foreign exchange option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2012 by replacing the actual exchange rates at December 31, 2012 with exchange rates that are 10% weaker compared to the actual exchange rates for each applicable currency. All other factors are held constant. These sensitivity analyses disregard the possibility that currency exchange rates can move in opposite directions and that gains from one currency may or may not be offset by losses from another currency. The analyses also disregard the offsetting change in value of the underlying hedged transactions and balances.  

Interest Rate and Other Risks  

The company is also exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. The company’s policy is to manage interest costs using a mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt that the company believes is appropriate. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient manner, the company periodically enters into interest rate swaps in which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. The company also periodically uses forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to hedge the risk to earnings associated with fluctuations in interest rates relating to anticipated issuances of term debt.  

As part of its risk management program, the company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential gains and losses in earnings relating to hypothetical movements in interest rates. A 32 basis-point increase in interest rates (approximately 10% of the company’s weighted-average interest rate during 2012) affecting the company’s financial instruments, including debt obligations and related derivatives, would have an immaterial effect on the company’s 2012, 2011 and 2010 earnings and on the fair value of the company’s fixed-rate debt as of the end of each fiscal year.  

As discussed in Note 8, the fair values of the company’s long-term litigation liabilities and related insurance receivables were computed by discounting the expected cash flows based on currently available information. A 10% movement in the assumed discount rate would have an immaterial effect on the fair values of those assets and liabilities.  

With respect to the company’s investments in affiliates, the company believes any reasonably possible near-term losses in earnings, cash flows and fair values would not be material to the company’s consolidated financial position.  

CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

Refer to Note 1 for information on changes in accounting standards.  

40  

Table of Contents 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. A summary of the company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1. Certain of the company’s accounting policies are considered critical because these policies are the most important to the depiction of the company’s financial statements and require significant, difficult or complex judgments by the company, often requiring the use of estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results that differ from the company’s estimates could have an unfavorable effect on the company’s results of operations and financial position. The company applies estimation methodologies consistently from year to year. Other than changes required due to the issuance of new accounting pronouncements, there have been no significant changes in the company’s application of its critical accounting policies during 2012. The company’s critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The following is a summary of accounting policies that the company considers critical to the consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition and Related Provisions and Allowances  

The company’s policy is to recognize revenues from product sales and services when earned. Refer to Note 1 for additional information regarding the company’s accounting policy for revenue recognition, including the company’s accounting for arrangements in which it commits to delivering multiple products or services to its customers.  

Provisions for discounts, rebates to customers, chargebacks to wholesalers, and returns are provided for at the time the related sales are recorded, and are reflected as a reduction of sales. These estimates are reviewed periodically and, if necessary, revised, with any revisions recognized immediately as adjustments to sales.  

The company periodically and systematically evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable and determines the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts. In determining the amount of the reserve, the company considers historical credit losses, the past-due status of receivables, payment history and other customer-specific information, and any other relevant factors or considerations.  

The company also provides for the estimated costs that may be incurred under its warranty programs when the cost is both probable and reasonably estimable, which is at the time the related revenue is recognized. The cost is determined based on actual company experience for the same or similar products as well as other relevant information. Estimates of future costs under the company’s warranty programs could change based on developments in the future. The company is not able to estimate the probability or amount of any future developments that could impact the reserves, but believes presently established reserves are adequate.  

Pension and Other Postemployment Benefit (OPEB) Plans  

The company provides pension and other postemployment benefits to certain of its employees. These employee benefit expenses are reported in the same line items in the consolidated income statement as the applicable employee’s compensation expense. The valuation of the funded status and net periodic benefit cost for the plans are calculated using actuarial assumptions. These assumptions are reviewed annually, and revised if appropriate. The significant assumptions include the following:  

   •    interest rates used to discount pension and OPEB plan liabilities;  

   •    the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets;  

   •    rates of increases in employee compensation (used in estimating liabilities);  

   •    anticipated future healthcare costs (used in estimating the OPEB plan liability); and  

   •    other assumptions involving demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover (used in estimating liabilities).  

41  

Table of Contents 

Selecting assumptions involves an analysis of both short-term and long-term historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of the valuation (also called the measurement date). The use of different assumptions would result in different measures of the funded status and net cost. Actual results in the future could differ from expected results. The company is not able to estimate the probability of actual results differing from expected results, but believes its assumptions are appropriate.  

The company’s key assumptions are listed in Note 11. The most critical assumptions relate to the plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees, because these plans are the most significant to the company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Discount Rate Assumption  

For the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans, at the measurement date (December 31, 2012), the company used a discount rate of 3.95% and 4.00% to measure its benefit obligations for the pension plans and OPEB plan, respectively. These discount rates will be used in calculating the net periodic benefit cost for these plans for 2013. The company used a broad population of approximately 320 Aa-rated corporate bonds as of December 31, 2012 to determine the discount rate assumption. All bonds were denominated in U.S. Dollars, with a minimum amount outstanding of $50 million. This population of bonds was narrowed from a broader universe of over 500 Moody’s Aa rated, non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds by eliminating the top 10th percentile and bottom 40th percentile to adjust for any pricing anomalies and to represent the bonds Baxter would most likely select if it were to actually annuitize its pension and OPEB plan liabilities. This portfolio of bonds was used to generate a yield curve and associated spot rate curve to discount the projected benefit payments for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve.  

For plans in Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom and the Eurozone, the company uses a method essentially the same as that described for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. For the company’s other international plans, the discount rate is generally determined by reviewing country- and region-specific government and corporate bond interest rates.  

To understand the impact of changes in discount rates on pension and OPEB plan cost, the company performs a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point (i.e., one-half of one percent) increase (decrease) in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $52 million.  

Return on Plan Assets Assumption  

In measuring net periodic cost for 2012, the company used a long-term expected rate of return of 7.75% for the pension plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees. For measuring the net periodic benefit cost for these plans for 2013, this assumption will decrease to 7.50%. This assumption is not applicable to the company’s OPEB plan because it is not funded.  

The company establishes the long-term asset return assumption based on a review of historical compound average asset returns, both company-specific and relating to the broad market (based on the company’s asset allocation), as well as an analysis of current market and economic information and future expectations. The current asset return assumption is supported by historical market experience for both the company’s actual and targeted asset allocation. In calculating net pension cost, the expected return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is a component of the total net unrecognized gain or loss and is subject to amortization in the future.  

To understand the impact of changes in the expected asset return assumption on net cost, the company performs a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point increase (decrease) in the asset return assumption, global pre-tax pension plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $18 million.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Other Assumptions  

The company used the RP 2000 mortality table to calculate the pension and OPEB plan benefit obligations for its plans in the United States and Puerto Rico. For all other pension plans, the company utilized country- and region-specific mortality tables to calculate the plans’ benefit obligations. The company periodically analyzes and updates its assumptions concerning demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover, considering historical experience as well as anticipated future trends.  

The assumptions relating to employee compensation increases and future healthcare costs are based on historical experience, market trends, and anticipated future company actions. Refer to Note 11 for information regarding the sensitivity of the OPEB plan obligation and the total of the service and interest cost components of OPEB plan cost to potential changes in future healthcare costs.  

Legal Contingencies  

The company is involved in product liability, patent, commercial, regulatory and other legal proceedings that arise in the normal course of business. Refer to Note 13 for further information. The company records a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate, the minimum amount in the range is accrued. If a loss is not probable or a probable loss cannot be reasonably estimated, no liability is recorded. The company has established reserves for certain of its legal matters. The company is not able to estimate the amount or range of any loss for certain of the legal contingencies for which there is no reserve or additional loss for matters already reserved. The company also records any insurance recoveries that are probable of occurring. At December 31, 2012, total legal liabilities were $113 million and total related receivables were $33 million.  

The company’s loss estimates are generally developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based on analyses of potential results. With respect to the recording of any insurance recoveries, after completing the assessment and accounting for the company’s legal contingencies, the company separately and independently analyzes its insurance coverage and records any insurance recoveries that are probable of occurring at the gross amount that is expected to be collected. In performing the assessment, the company reviews available information, including historical company-specific and market collection experience for similar claims, current facts and circumstances pertaining to the particular insurance claim, the financial viability of the applicable insurance company or companies, and other relevant information.  

While the liability of the company in connection with certain claims cannot be estimated with any certainty, and although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a significant impact on the company’s results of operations and cash flows for that period, the outcome of these legal proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated financial position. While the company believes it has valid defenses in these matters, litigation is inherently uncertain, excessive verdicts do occur, and the company may in the future incur material judgments or enter into material settlements of claims.  

Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances and Reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions  

The company maintains valuation allowances unless it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in the company’s tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, the company evaluates factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carryback and carryforward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. The realizability assessments made at a given balance sheet date are subject to change in the future, particularly if earnings of a subsidiary are significantly higher or lower than expected, or if the company takes operational or tax planning actions that could impact the future taxable earnings of a subsidiary.  

In the normal course of business, the company is audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and is periodically challenged regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges relate to the timing and amount of  

43  

Table of Contents 

 deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The company believes the company’s tax positions comply with applicable tax law and the company intends to defend its positions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the company records reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with GAAP, based on the technical support for the positions, the company’s past audit experience with similar situations, and potential interest and penalties related to the matters. The company’s results of operations and effective tax rate in a given period could be impacted if, upon final resolution with taxing authorities, the company prevailed in positions for which reserves have been established, or was required to pay amounts in excess of established reserves.  

Valuation of Intangible Assets, Including IPR&D  

The company acquires intangible assets and records them at fair value. Valuations are generally completed for business acquisitions using a discounted cash flow analysis, incorporating the stage of completion and consideration of market participant assumptions. The most significant estimates and assumptions inherent in a discounted cash flow analysis include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the discount rate used to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows, the assessment of the asset’s life cycle, and the competitive and other trends impacting the asset, including consideration of technical, legal, regulatory, economic and other factors. Each of these factors and assumptions can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset.  

Acquired in-process R&D (IPR&D) is the value assigned to acquired technology or products under development which have not received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use.  

Acquired IPR&D included in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Upon receipt of regulatory approval of the related technology or product, the indefinite-lived intangible asset is then accounted for as a finite-lived intangible asset and amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. If the R&D project is abandoned, the indefinite-lived asset is charged to expense.  

R&D acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately. For such transactions, payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related asset, and are classified as intangible assets.  

Due to the inherent uncertainty associated with R&D projects, there is no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from the underlying assumptions used to prepare discounted cash flow analyses, nor that the R&D project will result in a successful commercial product.  

Impairment of Assets  

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment reviews annually, and whenever indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets with definite lives and other long-lived assets (such as fixed assets) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Refer to Note 1 for further information. The company’s impairment reviews are based on an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings, and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company’s business plans and a market participant’s views of the company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair values of the assets, and potentially result in different impacts to the company’s results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company’s estimates.  

Stock-Based Compensation Plans  

Stock-based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and the cost is recognized as expense ratably over the substantive vesting period. Determining the appropriate fair value model  

44  

Table of Contents 

 to use requires judgment. Determining the assumptions that enter into the model is highly subjective and also requires judgment. The company’s stock compensation costs primarily relate to awards of stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance share units (PSUs). The company uses the Black-Scholes model for estimating the fair value of stock options, and significant assumptions include long-term projections regarding stock price volatility, employee exercise, post-vesting termination and pre-vesting forfeiture behaviors, interest rates and dividend yields. The fair value of RSUs is equal to the quoted price of the company’s common stock on the date of grant. The company uses a Monte Carlo model for estimating the fair value of PSUs, and significant inputs include the risk-free rate, volatility of returns and correlation of returns. Refer to Note 10 for additional information.  

CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS  

In July 2010, FDA issued a final order regarding the recall of the company’s COLLEAGUE infusion pumps then in use in the United States. The company substantially completed the recall in July 2012 and FDA closed the recall in November 2012.  

In June 2010, the company received a Warning Letter from FDA in connection with an inspection of its Renal business’s McGaw Park, Illinois headquarters facility. The Warning Letter pertains to the processes by which the company analyzes and addresses product complaints through corrective and preventative actions, and reports relevant information to FDA. The company is working with FDA to resolve this matter.  

Please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of regulatory matters and how they may impact the company.  

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  

This annual report includes forward-looking statements, including statements regarding accounting estimates and assumptions, litigation-related matters including outcomes, future regulatory filings and the company’s R&D pipeline, strategic objectives, credit exposure to foreign governments, potential developments with respect to credit ratings, investment of foreign earnings, estimates of liabilities including those related to uncertain tax positions, contingent payments, future pension plan contributions, costs, discount rates and rates of return, the company’s exposure to financial market volatility and foreign currency and interest rate risk, geographic expansion, business development activities, the pending Gambro acquisition, including its expected closing, financing and financial impact, future capital and R&D expenditures, including with respect to the Covington, Georgia facility, future stock repurchases and debt issuances, the impact of healthcare reform, the sufficiency of the company’s facilities and financial flexibility, the adequacy of credit facilities, tax provisions and reserves, the effective tax rate in 2013, the impact on the company of recent tax legislation and all other statements that do not relate to historical facts. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including:  

   •    demand for and market acceptance risks for and competitive pressures related to new and existing products, such as ADVATE and plasma-based therapies (including Antibody Therapy), and other therapies;  

   •    fluctuations in supply and demand and the pricing of plasma-based therapies;  

   •    the impact of U.S. healthcare reform and other similar actions undertaken by foreign governments with respect to pricing, reimbursement, taxation and rebate policies;  

   •    additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures in the United States or globally, which may affect pricing, reimbursement, taxation and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company’s business;  

   •    future actions of third parties, including third-party payors, as healthcare reform and other similar measures are implemented in the United States and globally;  

45  

Table of Contents 

   •    the company’s ability to identify business development and growth opportunities;  

   •    receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of closing conditions related to the pending Gambro acquisition;  

   •    product quality or patient safety issues, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, sanctions, seizures, litigation, or declining sales;  

   •    future actions of FDA, EMA or any other regulatory body or government authority that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sale or result in seizures, recalls, injunctions, monetary sanctions or criminal or civil liabilities;  

   •    fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates;  

   •    product development risks, including satisfactory clinical performance, the ability to manufacture at appropriate scale, and the general unpredictability associated with the product development cycle;  

   •    the ability to enforce the company’s patent rights or patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company’s manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology;  

   •    the impact of geographic and product mix on the company’s sales;  

   •    the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies;  

   •    inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors;  

   •    the availability and pricing of acceptable raw materials and component supply;  

   •    global regulatory, trade and tax policies;  

   •    any changes in law concerning the taxation of income, including income earned outside the United States;  

   •    actions by tax authorities in connection with ongoing tax audits;  

   •    the company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of its business optimization and transformation initiatives;  

   •    the successful implementation of the company’s global enterprise resource planning system;  

   •    the company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its joint product development and commercialization arrangements, including governmental collaborations;  

   •    changes in credit agency ratings;  

   •    the impact of global economic conditions on the company and its customers and suppliers, including foreign governments in certain countries in which the company operates; and  

   •    other factors identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including those factors described in Item 1A and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, all of which are available on the company’s website.  

Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.