ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Company’s consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Cautionary Statement  

The statements in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis that are forward looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this document. Often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “intend,” “project” and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis for any reason.  

Nature of Operations  

We design, develop and market complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced ICs, software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as IP cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. Our PLDs include FPGAs and CPLDs. These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to OEMs by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our critical accounting policies include: valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, which impacts losses on debt and equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin. Our critical accounting policies also include: the assessment of impairment of long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; and valuation and recognition of stock-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, R&D expenses, and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting.  

 Valuation of Marketable and Non-marketable Securities  

The Company’s short-term and long-term investments include marketable debt securities and non-marketable equity securities. As of March 28, 2009, the Company had marketable debt securities with a fair value of $1.24 billion and non-marketable equity securities in private companies of $20.5 million (adjusted cost). 

Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the assessment of fair value is based on the provisions of SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (SFAS 157). The Company determines the fair values for marketable debt and equity securities using industry standard pricing services, data providers and other third-party sources and by performing valuation analyses. See “Note 3. Fair Value Measurements” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for details of the valuation methodologies. In determining if and when a decline in value below adjusted cost of marketable debt and equity securities is other than temporary, the Company evaluates on an ongoing basis the market conditions, trends of earnings, financial condition, credit ratings, any underlying collateral and other key measures for our investments. We assess other-than-temporary impairment of debt and equity securities in accordance with FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 115-1, “The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.” We recorded other-than-temporary impairments for marketable debt securities and a marketable equity security in fiscal 2009. We did not record any other-than-temporary impairment for marketable debt or equity securities in fiscal 2008 or 2007. 

23  

The Company’s investments in non-marketable securities of private companies are accounted for by using the cost method. These investments are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis when they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. In determining whether a decline in value of non-marketable equity investments in private companies has occurred and is other than temporary, an assessment is made by considering available evidence, including the general market conditions in the investee’s industry, the investee’s product development status and subsequent rounds of financing and the related valuation and/or our participation in such financings. We also assess the investee’s ability to meet business milestones and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the individual investee, including the rate at which the investee is using its cash and the investee’s need for possible additional funding at a lower valuation. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the assessment of fair value is based on the provisions of SFAS 157. The valuation methodology for determining the decline in value of non-marketable equity securities is based on the factors noted above which require management judgment and are Level 3 inputs. See “Note 3. Fair Value Measurements” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information relating to the adoption of SFAS 157. When a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the Company recognizes an impairment loss in the current period’s operating results to the extent of the decline. We recorded other-than-temporary impairments for non-marketable equity securities in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007. 

 Revenue Recognition  

Sales to distributors are made under agreements providing distributor price adjustments and rights of return under certain circumstances. Revenue and costs relating to distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the distributors to the distributors’ end customers. For fiscal 2009, approximately 77% of our net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to OEMs or their subcontract manufacturers. Revenue recognition depends on notification from the distributor that product has been sold to the distributor’s end customer. Also reported by the distributor are product resale price, quantity and end customer shipment information, as well as inventory on hand. Reported distributor inventory on hand is reconciled to deferred revenue balances monthly. We maintain system controls to validate distributor data and to verify that the reported information is accurate. Deferred income on shipments to distributors reflects the effects of distributor price adjustments and the amount of gross margin expected to be realized when distributors sell through product purchased from the Company. Accounts receivable from distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved when title to inventories transfers, typically upon shipment from Xilinx at which point we have a legally enforceable right to collection under normal payment terms. 

As of March 28, 2009, we had $90.4 million of deferred revenue and $28.0 million of deferred cost of goods sold recognized as a net $62.4 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. As of March 29, 2008, we had $158.0 million of deferred revenue and $46.3 million of deferred cost of goods sold recognized as a net $111.7 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The deferred income on shipments to distributors that will ultimately be recognized in our consolidated statement of income will be different than the amount shown on the consolidated balance sheet due to actual price adjustments issued to the distributors when the product is sold to their end customers. 

Revenue from sales to our direct customers is recognized upon shipment provided that persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the price is fixed, title has transferred, collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, and there are no customer acceptance requirements and no remaining significant obligations. For each of the periods presented, there were no significant formal acceptance provisions with our direct customers. 

Revenue from software licenses is deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the licenses of one year. Revenue from support services is recognized when the service is performed. Revenue from Support Products, which includes software and services sales, was less than 7% of net revenues for all of the periods presented.  

Allowances for end customer sales returns are recorded based on historical experience and for known pending customer returns or allowances. 

 Valuation of Inventories  

Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first-in, first-out method) or market (estimated net realizable value). The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. We review and set standard costs quarterly to approximate current actual manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of actual spending over actual volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Given the cyclicality of the market, the obsolescence of technology and product lifecycles, we write down inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the basis for our published revenue forecasts, which are also consistent with our short-term manufacturing plans. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. 

24  

 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Including Acquisition-Related Intangibles 

Long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used are reviewed for impairment if indicators of potential impairment exist. Impairment indicators are reviewed on a quarterly basis. When indicators of impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets or based on appraisals. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for use include the ability of the specific assets to generate positive cash flows. 

When assets are removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for sale include market conditions. Changes in any of these factors could necessitate impairment recognition in future periods for assets held for use or assets held for sale.  

Long-lived assets such as goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment, are considered nonfinancial assets, and are only measured at fair value when indicators of impairment exist. The accounting and disclosure provisions of SFAS 157 will not be effective for these assets until the first quarter of fiscal 2010. See “Note 3. Fair Value Measurements” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information. 

 Goodwill  

As required by SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS 142), goodwill is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, and goodwill is written down when it is determined to be impaired. We perform an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and compare the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired. For purposes of impairment testing under SFAS 142, Xilinx operates as a single reporting unit. We use the quoted market price method to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. Based on the impairment review performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2009. Unless there are indicators of impairment, our next impairment review for goodwill will be performed and completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. To date, no impairment indicators have been identified.  

 Accounting for Income Taxes  

Xilinx is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions. We must determine the allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on estimates and assumptions and apply the appropriate tax rates for these jurisdictions. We undergo routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Tax audits often require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates.  

In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Additionally, we must estimate the amount and likelihood of potential losses arising from audits or deficiency notices issued by taxing authorities. The taxing authorities’ positions and our assessment can change over time resulting in a material effect on the provision for income taxes in periods when these changes occur. 

We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve in the form of a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. 

The Company has elected to adopt the alternative transition method provided in FSP No. FAS 123(R)-3, “Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards” for calculating the tax effects of stock-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the APIC pool related to the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC pool and consolidated statements of cash flows of the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R).  

In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48. FIN 48 contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes” (SFAS 109). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax  

25  

benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being ultimately realized. See “Note 16. Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

 Stock-Based Compensation  

In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement at fair value and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based payment awards. Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan, consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). Option pricing models, including the Black-Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, expected forfeiture rate and expected risk-free rate of return. We use implied volatility based on traded options in the open market as we believe implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility. In determining the appropriateness of implied volatility, we considered: the volume of market activity of traded options, and determined there was sufficient market activity; the ability to reasonably match the input variables of traded options to those of options granted by the Company, such as date of grant and the exercise price, and determined the input assumptions were comparable; and the length of term of traded options used to derive implied volatility, which is generally one to two years and which was extrapolated to match the expected term of the employee options granted by the Company, and determined the length of the option term was reasonable. The expected life of options granted is based on the historical exercise activity as well as the expected disposition of all options outstanding. We will continue to review our input assumptions and make changes as deemed appropriate depending on new information that becomes available. Higher volatility and expected lives result in a proportional increase to stock-based compensation determined at the date of grant. The expected dividend rate and expected risk-free rate of return do not have as significant an effect on the calculation of fair value. 

In addition, SFAS 123(R) requires us to develop an estimate of the number of stock-based awards which will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate have an effect on reported stock-based compensation, as the effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization after April 1, 2006 is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in a decrease to the expense recognized in the financial statements. If the actual forfeiture rate is lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in an increase to the expense recognized in the financial statements. The effect of forfeiture adjustments in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was insignificant. The expense we recognize in future periods could also differ significantly from the current period and/or our forecasts due to adjustments in the assumed forfeiture rates. 

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal years indicated:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

26 

Net Revenues [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The 1% decline in net revenues in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 was largely due to the recessionary environment we experienced during the fiscal year which impacted our sales across a broad base of end markets. New Product revenue increased considerably in fiscal 2009 but not enough to fully offset the declines in Base and Mainstream Products. Total unit sales declined in fiscal 2009 but average selling price per unit increased compared to the comparable prior year period. The relatively flat net revenues in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 was driven by strong customer demand for our New Products which was offset by decreased demand for our Mainstream and Base Products, particularly in the Communications and Data Processing end markets. Increased total unit sales during fiscal 2008 compared to the comparable prior year period were offset by declines in average unit selling prices, which also contributed to the flat net revenues in fiscal 2008. See “Net Revenues by Product” and “Net Revenues by End Markets” below for more information on our product and end-market categories. 

No end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues for any of the periods presented. 

 Net Revenues by Product 

We classify our product offerings into four categories: New, Mainstream, Base and Support Products. These product categories, excluding Support Products, are modified on a periodic basis to better reflect advances in technology. The most recent adjustment was made on July 2, 2006, which was the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2007. New Products, as currently defined, include our most recent product offerings and include the Virtex-5, Virtex-4, Spartan-3 and CoolRunner-II product families. Mainstream Products include the Virtex-II, Spartan-II, CoolRunner and Virtex-E product families. Mainstream products are generally several years old and designed into customer programs that are currently shipping in full production. Base Products consist of our older product families including the Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products. Support Products make up the remainder of our product offerings and include configuration products, software, IP cores, customer training, design services and support. In fiscal 2010, we expect to reclassify our net revenues by product categories to better reflect the age of the products and advances in technologies.  

Net revenues by product categories for the fiscal years indicated were as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net revenues from New Products increased significantly in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period due to continued strong market acceptance of these products, primarily Virtex-5, Virtex-4 and Spartan-3E. In fiscal 2009, Virtex-5 sales nearly tripled and net revenues from our Virtex-4 and Spartan-3 product families each grew in double digits. These products, along with our CoolRunner-II family of CPLDs, contributed to the majority of the revenue growth in New Products in fiscal 2008. We expect sales of New Products to continue to increase over time as more customers’ programs go into volume production with our 65-nm and 90-nm products. 

Net revenues from Mainstream Products declined in fiscal 2009 and 2008 primarily due to a decline in sales of some of our older generation products that were introduced to the market more than seven years ago.  

The decline in net revenues from Base Products in fiscal 2009 and 2008 was expected since these products are mature and approaching the end of life. 

Net revenues from Support Products decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period primarily due to a decline in sales from our PROM products. Net revenues from Support Products increased in fiscal 2008 due to modest increases in sales from our software products. 

27 

 Net Revenues by End Markets  

Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers’ primary markets. We classify our net revenues by end markets into four categories: Communications, Industrial and Other, Consumer and Automotive, and Data Processing. The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year-to-year dollar change in each end market. 

Net revenues by end markets for the fiscal years indicated were as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net revenues from Communications, our largest end market, increased in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period primarily due to the strength in wireless communication applications. Sales to customers in the wireless space were particularly strong during fiscal 2009 as a result of next generation wireless activity in China. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from Communications decreased primarily due to decreased sales from wireless communication applications, much of which was driven by merger and consolidation activity in that market. 

Net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market increased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period due to strong sales growth from aerospace and defense and industrial, scientific and medical applications. However, this growth was offset considerably by weakness in test and measurement applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market increased due to broad-based strength across all applications including defense, industrial, scientific and medical and test and measurement. 

Net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market decreased in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year due to weaker sales from audio, video and broadcast and automotive applications, which was partially offset by an increase in sales from consumer applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market increased primarily due to strength in automotive applications.  

The decrease in net revenues from the Data Processing end market in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period was mainly driven by decreases in sales from computing and data processing applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Data Processing end market declined due to decreases in sales from storage as well as computing and data processing applications. 

 Net Revenues by Geography  

Geographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased our products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues by geography for the fiscal years indicated were as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net revenues in North America decreased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily due to lower sales from the Communications end market. The decrease in net revenues during fiscal 2008 was driven primarily by a decline in sales from wireless communications as well as data processing applications. 

Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in double digits during fiscal 2009, driven by strength in the Communications end market, primarily from next generation wireless applications in China. The increase in net revenues in fiscal 2008 was due to broad-based end market strength, with particular strength coming from customers in the Communications and Industrial and Other end markets. Asia Pacific sales continued to benefit from outsourcing of manufacturing operations by large U.S. and European-based customers to the Asia Pacific region. 

Net revenues in Europe increased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily due to strength in wireless communication applications. Net revenues decreased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to lower sales from wireless communication applications. 

28  

Net revenues in Japan decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year due to broad-based weakness across most end market categories with the exception of the Consumer and Automotive end market. The fiscal 2008 decline was due to broad-based weakness across all end market categories. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year period was driven primarily by product cost reductions, higher average selling prices per unit, stabilization of our New Products and improved operational efficiency. 

The increase in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2008 from the comparable prior year period was driven primarily by product cost reductions and improved operational efficiency. This favorable impact was partially offset by the product mix effect of New Product growth year-over-year. New Products generally have lower gross margins than Mainstream and Base Products in the early product life cycle due to higher unit costs resulting from lower yields. As a percentage of total net revenues, New Product sales increased by approximately 10% from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2008. 

Gross margin may be affected in the future due to mix shifts, competitive-pricing pressure, manufacturing-yield issues and wafer pricing. We expect to mitigate any adverse impacts from these factors by continuing to improve yields on our New Products and by improving manufacturing efficiencies.  

Sales of inventory previously written off were not material during fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007.  

In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions on to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. We have historically been able to offset much of this revenue decline in our mature products with increased revenues from newer products. 

Research and Development  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

R&D spending decreased $2.7 million or 1% during fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was attributable to lower mask and wafer spending and reduced stock-based compensation expense, which was partially offset by increased outside services to support our investments in new product development. 

R&D spending decreased $30.0 million or 8% during fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily due to reduced stock-based compensation expense and lower mask and wafer spending, coupled with lower cost related to our R&D center in India. 

We plan to continue to selectively invest in R&D efforts in areas such as new products and more advanced process development, IP cores and the development of new design and layout software. We will also consider acquisitions to complement our strategy for technology leadership and engineering resources in critical areas. 

Selling, General and Administrative  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SG&A expenses decreased $21.5 million or 6% during fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was primarily due to headcount reduction as a result of a functional reorganization, lower sales commissions and lower stock-based compensation expense, which was partially offset by higher litigation costs. 

29  

SG&A expenses decreased $10.2 million or 3% during fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. The decrease was attributable to lower stock-based compensation expense, reduced discretionary spending and lower sales commissions. The reductions in discretionary spending included consulting, travel and marketing expenses. 

Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amortization expense was related to the intangible assets acquired from prior acquisitions. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2009 from the same period last year, due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets in fiscal 2008. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2008 from fiscal 2007, due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets in fiscal 2007. We expect amortization of acquisition-related intangibles to be approximately $1.5 million for fiscal 2010 compared with $5.3 million for fiscal 2009. 

Restructuring Charges 

In June 2008, we announced a functional reorganization pursuant to which we eliminated 249 positions, or approximately 7% of our global workforce. These employee terminations occurred across various geographies and functions worldwide. The reorganization plan was completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2009.  

We recorded total restructuring charges of $22.0 million in connection with the reorganization. These charges consisted of $19.5 million of severance pay and benefits expenses which were recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and $2.5 million of facility-related costs and severance benefits expenses which were recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. 

The following table summarizes the restructuring accrual activity for fiscal 2009:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The charges above have been shown separately as restructuring charges on the consolidated statements of income. The remaining accrual as of March 28, 2009 relates to facility-related costs that are expected to be paid over the remaining lease terms of the closed facilities expiring at various dates through December 2012. 

We estimate that severance and benefits expenses incurred to date will result in gross annual savings of approximately $35.0 million, including approximately $30.0 million of cash savings before taxes and approximately $5.0 million of stock-based compensation expense. We began realizing the majority of these savings, primarily within the SG&A and R&D expense categories, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. There can be no assurance that these expected future savings will be completely realized as they may be partially offset by increases in other expenses.  

See “Note 21. Subsequent Events” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for information relating to a restructuring announced on April 15, 2009.  

Litigation Settlement 

On November 27, 2006, the Company settled a patent infringement lawsuit under which the Company agreed to pay $6.5 million. The plaintiff agreed to dismiss the patent infringement lawsuit with prejudice, granted a patent license to the Company and executed an agreement not to sue the Company under any patent owned or controlled by the plaintiff for ten years. As a result of the settlement agreement, we recorded a current period charge of $2.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2007. The remaining balance of $4.0 million represented the value of the prepaid patent license granted as part of the settlement. This balance is being amortized over the patent’s remaining useful life of nine years. 

30  

Stock-Based Compensation  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The $11.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2009 was due to a decrease in the number of shares granted, declining weighted-average fair values of stock awards vesting and an increase in the number of shares cancelled due to the June 2008 restructuring. The $26.1 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2008 was due to a decrease in the number of shares granted, declining weighted-average fair values of stock awards vesting and lower expense related to a methodology change from accelerated to straight-line amortization in connection with the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Total stock-based compensation expense during fiscal 2007 related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) was $90.3 million, excluding one-time expense of $2.2 million relating to prior years under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations, using the intrinsic value method. 

In June 2006, stockholder derivative complaints were filed against the Company concerning the Company’s historical option-granting practices and the SEC initiated an informal inquiry on the matter. An investigation of the Company’s historical stock option-granting practices was conducted by outside counsel and no evidence of fraud, management misconduct or manipulation in the timing or exercise price of stock option grants was found. The investigation determined that in nearly all cases, stock options were issued as of pre-set dates; however, there were some minor differences between the recorded grant dates and measurement dates for certain grants made between 1997 and 2006. As a result, a $2.2 million charge was taken to the Company’s earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Subsequently the SEC informal inquiry was terminated and no enforcement action was recommended and the stockholder derivative complaints were dismissed. 

The income tax effect of the charge resulted in a benefit of $650 thousand, which was recorded to income tax expense. The Company assessed the implications of applicable income tax rules that may affect the Company. The tax benefit recorded is net of such potential costs.  

Gain on Early Extinguishment of Convertible Debentures  

In the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, we paid $193.2 million in cash to repurchase $310.4 million (principal amount) of our debentures and recognized a gain on early extinguishment of convertible debentures of $110.6 million, net of the write-off of the pro rata portions of unamortized debt issuance costs ($5.8 million) and unamortized derivative valuation ($736 thousand). Accrued interest paid at the time of repurchases totaled $2.4 million. 

Impairment Loss on Investments [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During fiscal 2009, we recorded total impairment losses related to senior class asset-backed securities of $38.0 million, which represented the original purchase price of these securities, excluding accrued interest. The senior class asset-backed securities were partially written off in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 due to default by the issuer in October 2008. At the time of the initial write-off of $19.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we understood, based on the issuer’s prospectus disclosures that investors would be repaid proportionally and without preference. In October 2008, the issuer went into receivership. The receiver subsequently sought judicial interpretation of a provision of a legal document governing the issuer’s securities. As a result of the outcome of the judicial determination, the receiver immediately liquidated the substantial majority of the issuer’s assets, and in accordance with the court order, the proceeds were used to repay short-term liabilities in the order in which they fell due. In December 2008, the receiver reported to the issuer’s creditors the outcome of the judicial determination and that the issuer’s liabilities substantially exceeded its assets. As a result, the receiver estimated that the issuer would not be able to pay any liabilities falling due after October 2008 regardless of the seniority or status of the securities. Our investments in these senior class asset-backed securities mature in September 2009 and September 2010. Based on these new developments, we concluded that we are not likely to recover the 

31  

remaining balance of our investment. This decline in fair value was deemed to be other than temporary and, therefore, we recognized a total impairment loss on this investment. Accordingly, during the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we recognized an impairment loss of $18.2 million, which represented the carrying balance of the senior class asset-backed securities. 

During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, the issuer of one of the marketable debt securities in our investment portfolio filed for bankruptcy resulting in a significant decline in the fair value of this security. The original purchase price of this security, excluding accrued interest, was $10.0 million. Based upon the available market and financial data for the issuer, the decline in market value was deemed to be other than temporary and we recorded impairment losses of $9.0 million, including $8.4 million in the second quarter and $600 thousand in the third quarter of fiscal 2009.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we recognized an additional impairment loss of $1.0 million on marketable debt securities in our investment portfolio.  

During fiscal 2009, we recognized a $3.1 million impairment loss as a result of a continuous decline that began in fiscal 2008 in the market value of our investment in a marketable equity security. We believed that the decline in the market value was other than temporary and it was deemed to be worthless as of September 27, 2008. We recognized an impairment loss on our investment in this marketable equity security during the first and second quarters of fiscal 2009. 

We recorded impairment losses of $3.0 million, $2.9 million and $2.0 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to our investment in non-marketable equity securities in private companies. These impairment losses resulted primarily from weak financial conditions of certain investees, certain investees diluting our investment through the receipt of additional rounds of investment at a lower valuation or from the liquidation of certain investees. 

Interest and Other Income, Net  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in interest and other income, net in fiscal 2009 over the prior year was due primarily to a decrease in interest rates and a smaller investment portfolio. The average interest rate yield decreased by approximately 200 basis points (two percentage points) year-over-year. The decrease in interest and other income, net in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 was due to the interest expense ($32.0 million) related to the debentures issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 as well as a loss of approximately $4.7 million from the sale of the Company’s remaining UMC investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interest income of $13.6 million in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 due to higher yields resulting from investing in taxable securities and a larger investment portfolio. See “Note 12. Interest and Other Income, Net” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Provision for Income Taxes [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The effective tax rates in all years reflected the favorable impact of foreign income at statutory rates less than the U.S. rate and tax credits earned. 

The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2009, when compared with fiscal 2008, was primarily due to the gain on early extinguishment of debentures taxable at U.S. tax rates. The increase was partially offset by the benefit of retroactive extension of the research credit in fiscal 2009. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 was signed into law. This legislation extended the federal research credit through the end of calendar 2009. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2008, when compared with fiscal 2007, was primarily due to items unique to fiscal 2007 reducing the rates for the prior year period. 

The IRS examined the Company’s tax returns for fiscal 1996 through 2001. All issues have been settled with the exception of issues related to Xilinx U.S.’s cost sharing arrangement with Xilinx Ireland. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement. Accordingly, there were no additional taxes, penalties or interest due for this issue. The Tax Court entered its decision on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. On May 27, 2009, the Company received a 2-1 adverse judicial ruling from the Appeals Court reversing the Tax Court decision and holding that the Company should include stock option amounts in its cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. 

32  

The Company does not agree with the Appeals Court decision and is reviewing its alternatives as a result of the decision. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” included in Part I and “Note 16. Income Taxes,” “Note 18. Litigation Settlements and Contingencies,” and “Note 21. Subsequent Events” to our consolidated financial statements, included in

 Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”