ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Interest Rate Risk 

Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.24 billion as of March 28, 2009. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. Our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, student loan auction rate securities and U.S. and foreign government and agency securities. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $6.0 million and $9.0 million, respectively. 

Credit Market Risk 

Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. The global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur additional other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset-backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. See “Note 4. Financial Instruments” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information about our investments. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 

Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. 

Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in income or expenses in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. 

37  

We enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. As of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008, we had the following outstanding forward currency exchange contracts: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, as part of our strategy to reduce volatility of operating expenses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we expanded our hedging program from a one-quarter forward outlook to a five-quarter forward outlook for major foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses. The contracts expire at various dates between April 2009 and April 2010. The net unrealized gain or loss, which approximates the fair market value of the above contracts, was immaterial as of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008. 

Our investments in several of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. These fluctuations are recorded within stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other foreign-denominated assets and liabilities are revalued on a monthly basis with gains and losses on revaluation reflected in net income. A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the annualized foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $8.0 million and $15.0 million, respectively. In addition, a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the value of foreign-currency-denominated cash and investments by less than $6.0 million as of each date. 

38  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA