Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Berkshire is subject to certain risks in its business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Berkshire. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations.  

The Company’s tolerance for risk in its insurance businesses may result in significant underwriting losses.  

Berkshire believes it has been and continues to be willing to assume more risk than any other insurer has knowingly assumed. Berkshire estimates it could incur a probable maximum loss of approximately $7 billion from a single loss event and does so willingly if properly paid for the risk assumed. Berkshire has also written some coverages for losses arising from acts of terrorism. In all cases, however, Berkshire attempts to avoid writing groups of policies from which losses might seriously aggregate. However, it is possible that despite Berkshire’s efforts, losses may aggregate in ways that were not anticipated. The tolerance for huge losses may in certain future periods result in such losses, which may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings.  

The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in significant underwriting losses.  

In the insurance business, premiums are charged today for promises to pay covered losses in the future. The principal cost associated with premium revenue is claims. However, it will literally take decades before all losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date will be reported and settled. Although Berkshire believes that loss reserve balances are adequate to cover losses, Berkshire will not truly know whether the premiums charged for the coverages provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Except for certain product lines, Berkshire’s objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long-term. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Reserve estimates are large ($56.6 billion at December 31, 2008) so adjustments to reserve estimates can have a material effect on periodic reported earnings.  

Insurance subsidiaries’ investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to loss in value.  

Compared to other insurers, Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries keep an unusually high percentage of their assets in common stocks and diversify their portfolios far less than is conventional. A significant decline in the general stock market or in the price of major investments may produce a large decrease in Berkshire’s shareholders’ equity and under certain circumstances may require the recognition of such losses in the statement of earnings. Decreases in values of equity investments could have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s book value per share. During 2008, several crises affecting the financial system and capital markets of the U.S. resulted in very large price declines in the general stock market and in Berkshire’s equity and fixed maturity investments, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2008. The aggregate fair value of Berkshire’s investments decreased significantly in 2008 and could continue into the future.  

Derivative contracts may require significant future cash settlement payments and result in significant losses.  

Berkshire assumes significant risk of loss from its credit default and equity index put option contracts. Although Berkshire has received considerable premiums as compensation for accepting these risks, there is no assurance that the premiums received will exceed the future cash settlement payments. While the risks under the credit default contracts are limited to specified entities, the deterioration of the U.S. economy has increased the likelihood of credit defaults and payments to counterparties under many of Berkshire’s contracts. Berkshire’s risk under the equity index put option contracts is based on declines in equity prices of stocks comprising various indexes worldwide. Although these contracts do not expire before 2019, Berkshire could be subject to significant future settlement payments at expiration if equity prices do not increase from current levels.  

The credit default and equity index put option contracts are recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the periodic changes in fair value are reported in earnings. The valuations of these contracts and the impact on Berkshire’s earnings can be particularly significant reflecting the volatility of credit and equity markets.  

Berkshire is dependent for its investment and capital allocation decisions on a few key people.  

Investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made for Berkshire’s businesses by Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO, age 78, in consultation with Charles T. Munger, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, age 85. If for any reason the services of Berkshire’s key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable to Berkshire, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company. However, Berkshire’s Board of Directors has   

18  

Table of Contents 

 identified three current Berkshire subsidiary managers who are capable of being CEO. Berkshire’s Board has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a replacement be needed currently. The Board continually monitors this matter and could alter its current view in the future. Management believes that the Board’s succession plan, together with the outstanding managers running Berkshire’s numerous and highly diversified operating units helps to mitigate this risk.  

The past growth rate in Berkshire stock is not an indication of future results.  

In the years since Berkshire’s present management acquired control of Berkshire, its book value per share has grown at a highly satisfactory rate. Because of the large size of Berkshire’s capital base (shareholders’ equity of approximately $109.3 billion as of December 31, 2008), Berkshire’s book value per share very likely will not increase in the future at a rate even close to its past rate.  

Competition  

Each of Berkshire’s operating businesses faces intense competitive pressures within its respective markets. Such competition may come from domestic operators and international operators. While Berkshire’s businesses are managed with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive advantages. Many factors, including market and technology changes, may erode competitive advantages or prevent their strengthening. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether the operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages.  

Unfavorable economic and political conditions could hurt Berkshire’s operating businesses.  

Berkshire’s operating businesses are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the economy in general or the industries in which they operate. To the extent that the current economic recession in the U.S. and worldwide continue for a prolonged period of time, one or more of Berkshire’s significant operations could be materially harmed. In addition, Berkshire’s utilities and energy businesses and manufactured housing finance operations regularly utilize debt as a component of their capital structures. These businesses depend on having access to borrowed funds through the capital markets. To the extent that access to the credit is restricted or the cost of funding increases, these operations could be adversely affected.  

Historically, Berkshire has derived a relatively small amount of its revenues and earnings from international markets and its international business was concentrated in the insurance businesses, which are conducted primarily in Western Europe, Japan, Australia and other regions where relatively stable political and economic conditions have prevailed. As a result of Berkshire’s recent business acquisitions, including IMC, Berkshire may be subject to increased risks from unstable political conditions and civil unrest in international markets. IMC’s headquarters are located in Israel and substantial business operations are conducted in Israel and South Korea.  

Unstable economic and political conditions, civil unrest and political activism, particularly in the Middle East, could adversely impact Berkshire’s businesses, including internationally based businesses. Further, terrorism activities deriving from unstable conditions could produce significant losses to Berkshire’s worldwide operations, including operations based in the United States. Business operations could be adversely affected directly through the loss of human resources and destruction of production facilities.  

Risks unique to utilities and energy businesses  

For the most part, Berkshire’s utilities and energy businesses, which generate, transmit and distribute electricity and transport and distribute natural gas, are highly regulated by numerous Federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions in which they operate. The regulatory process determines the terms and conditions of providing utility service, including the rates that may be charged to customers. The results of this process may not allow recovery of all costs incurred by the utilities. Regulations also address safety, environmental, capital structure and operational compliance. Adverse new legislation or regulations or reinterpretations of existing regulations as well as the nature of the regulatory process may have a significant impact on financial results.  

The utilities and energy business requires significant amounts of capital to construct, operate and maintain sufficient generation, transmission and distribution systems. Usually, large amounts of borrowed funds are required to capitalize these businesses and additional borrowed funds may not be available at economically favorable terms. Additionally, such systems may need to be operational for very long periods of time in order to justify the financial investment. The risk of operational or financial failure of capital projects is not necessarily recoverable through rates that are charged to customers.  

19  

Table of Contents 

Berkshire’s Class B Common Stock is not convertible and has a lower vote and stock price than its Class A Common Stock.  

Each share of Class A Common Stock is convertible into thirty shares of Class B Common Stock, but shares of Class B Common Stock are not convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock or any other security. Although a share of Class B Common Stock may sell below one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of Class A Common Stock, it is unlikely that a share of Class B Common Stock will sell significantly above one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of Class A Common Stock because higher prices than that would cause arbitrage activity to ensue. Also, holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote, but holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to only one two-hundredth of a vote for each Class B share on matters submitted to a vote of Berkshire stockholders.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

 Item 2. Description of Properties