PART I 

Item 1. Business 

Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative products and services around the world. We have approximately 37,000 employees worldwide. Textron Inc. was founded in 1923 and reincorporated in Delaware on July 31, 1967. Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Textron Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Textron Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

We conduct our business through five operating segments: Textron Aviation, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial, which represent our manufacturing businesses, and Finance, which represents our finance business. A description of the business of each of our segments is set forth below. Our business segments include operations that are unincorporated divisions of Textron Inc. and others that are separately incorporated subsidiaries. Financial information by business segment and geographic area appears in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 67 through 68 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 19 through 34 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. 

Textron Aviation Segment 

Textron Aviation is a leader in general aviation. Textron Aviation manufactures, sells and services Beechcraft and Cessna aircraft, and services the Hawker brand of business jets. The segment has two principal product lines: aircraft and aftermarket. Aircraft includes sales of business jets, turboprop aircraft, piston engine aircraft, and military trainer and defense aircraft. Aftermarket includes commercial parts sales, and maintenance, inspection and repair services. Revenues in the Textron Aviation segment accounted for 33%, 36% and 36% of our total revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Revenues for Textron Aviation’s principal lines of business were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The family of jets currently produced by Textron Aviation includes the Citation M2, Citation CJ3+, Citation CJ4, Citation XLS+, Citation Latitude, Citation Sovereign+, and the Citation X+, the fastest civilian jet in the world. In addition, the new Citation Longitude, a super-midsize jet which achieved first flight in October 2016, is expected to enter into service in early 2018. Textron Aviation is also continuing the development of the Citation Hemisphere, a large-cabin jet. 

Textron Aviation’s turboprop aircraft include the Beechcraft King Air C90GTx, King Air 250, King Air 350ER and King Air 350i, and the Cessna Caravan and Grand Caravan EX. The Cessna Denali, a high-performance single engine turboprop aircraft, is expected to achieve its first flight in 2018. In addition, Textron Aviation recently announced the Cessna Skycourier, a twin-engine, high-wing, large-utility turboprop aircraft, which is targeted for first flight in 2019. Textron Aviation’s piston engine aircraft include the Beechcraft Baron and Bonanza, and the Cessna Skyhawk, Skylane, and the Turbo Stationair. 

Textron Aviation also offers the T-6 trainer, which is used to train pilots from more than 20 countries, the AT-6 light attack military aircraft, and the Scorpion. The Scorpion is a highly affordable, multi-mission aircraft designed primarily for the tactical military jet aviation market. This aircraft is not yet in production, pending customer orders. 

In support of its family of aircraft, Textron Aviation operates a global network of 18 service centers, two of which are co-located with Bell Helicopter, along with more than 350 authorized independent service centers located throughout the world. Textron Aviation-owned service centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Textron Aviation also provides its customers with around-the-clock parts support and offers a mobile support program with over 60 mobile service units and several dedicated support aircraft. In addition, Able Aerospace Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Textron Aviation, also provides component and maintenance, repair and overhaul services in support of commercial and military fixed- and rotor-wing aircraft. 

3 

Table of Contents 

Textron Aviation markets its products worldwide through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives. Textron Aviation has several competitors domestically and internationally in various market segments. Textron Aviation’s aircraft compete with other aircraft that vary in size, speed, range, capacity and handling characteristics on the basis of price, product quality and reliability, direct operating costs, product support and reputation. 

Bell Segment 

Bell Helicopter is one of the leading suppliers of military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and services in the world. Revenues for Bell accounted for 23%, 23% and 26% of our total revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Revenues by Bell’s principal lines of business were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and support to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the United States. Bell’s primary U.S. Government programs are the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters. Bell is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters to the U.S. Government and, in association with The Boeing Company (Boeing), the only supplier of military tiltrotor aircraft. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. Through its strategic alliance with Boeing, Bell produces and supports the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), and also for Japan under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program. The H-1 helicopter program includes a utility model, the UH-1Y, and an advanced attack model, the AH-1Z, which have 84% parts commonality between them. While the U.S. Marine Corps is the primary customer for H-1 helicopters, we also sell H-1 helicopters under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program. 

Bell is developing the V-280 Valor, a next generation vertical lift aircraft as part of the Joint Multi Role Technology Demonstrator (JMR-TD) initiative. The JMR-TD program is the science and technology precursor to the Department of Defense’s Future Vertical Lift program. Aircraft designed through this initiative will compete to replace thousands of aging utility and attack helicopters for the U.S. Armed Forces over the next decade. The V-280 achieved its first flight in December 2017. 

Through its commercial business, Bell is a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters and support to corporate, offshore petroleum exploration and development, utility, charter, police, fire, rescue and emergency medical helicopter operators, and foreign governments. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types, including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The helicopters currently offered by Bell for commercial applications include the 407GXP, 412EP, 412EPI, 429, 429WLG, 505 Jet Ranger X and Huey II. In addition, the 525 Relentless, Bell’s first super medium commercial helicopter, is expected to achieve certification in 2019. 

For both its military programs and its commercial products, Bell provides post-sale support and service for an installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters through a network of five Bell-operated service centers, four global parts distribution centers and over 100 independent service centers located in 35 countries. Collectively, these service sites offer a complete range of logistics support, including parts, support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repair and overhaul, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, aircraft customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field service and product support engineering. 

Bell competes against a number of competitors throughout the world for its helicopter business and its parts and support business. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support, performance and reputation. 

4 

Table of Contents 

Textron Systems Segment 

Textron Systems’ product lines consist of unmanned systems, marine and land systems, and simulation, training and other defense and aviation mission support products and services. Textron Systems is a supplier to the defense, aerospace and general aviation markets, and represents 13%, 13% and 11% of our total revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. This segment sells its products to U.S. Government customers and to customers outside the U.S. through foreign military sales sponsored by the U.S. Government and directly through commercial sales channels. Textron Systems competes on the basis of technology, contract performance, price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation. Revenues by Textron Systems’ product lines were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Unmanned Systems 

Our Unmanned Systems product line includes the offerings of the Unmanned Systems and Support Solutions businesses. The Unmanned Systems business has designed, manufactured and fielded combat-proven unmanned aircraft systems for more than 25 years. This business’s products include the U.S. Army’s premier tactical unmanned aircraft system, the Shadow, which has surpassed one million flight hours since its introduction, and the Aerosonde Small Unmanned Aircraft System, a multi-mission capable unmanned aircraft system that has amassed more than 200,000 flight hours in commercial and military operations around the world. In addition, its unmanned aircraft and interoperable command and control technologies provide critical situational awareness and actionable intelligence for users worldwide. Our Support Solutions business provides logistical support for various unmanned systems as well as training and supply chain services to government and commercial customers worldwide. 

Marine and Land Systems 

Our Marine and Land Systems product line includes advanced marine craft, armored vehicles, turrets and related subsystems, in service with U.S. and international militaries, special operations forces, police forces and civilian entities. Marine and Land Systems’ primary U.S. Government program is for the development and production of the U.S. Navy’s next generation Landing Craft Air Cushion as part of the Ship-to-Shore Connector program. 

Simulation, Training and Other 

Our Simulation, Training and Other product line includes products and services from five businesses: TRU Simulation + Training, Textron Airborne Solutions, Electronic Systems, Lycoming, and Weapons and Sensors. 

TRU Simulation + Training designs, develops, manufactures, installs, and provides maintenance of advanced flight training courseware and devices, including full flight simulators, for both rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft for commercial airlines, aircraft original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), flight training centers and training organizations worldwide. Through its training centers, TRU Simulation + Training provides initial type-rating and recurrency training for pilots, as well as maintenance training in its Aviation Maintenance Training Academy. Textron Airborne Solutions, which includes Airborne Tactical Advantage Company, focuses on live military air-to-air and air-to-ship training and support services for U.S. Navy, Marine and Air Force pilots. Electronic Systems provides high technology test equipment, electronic warfare test and training solutions and intelligence software solutions for U.S. and international defense, intelligence and law enforcement communities. 

Lycoming specializes in the engineering, manufacture, service and support of piston aircraft engines for the general aviation and remotely piloted aircraft markets. Weapons and Sensors offers advanced precision guided weapons systems, airborne and ground-based sensors and surveillance systems, and protection systems for the defense and aerospace industries. 

5 

Table of Contents 

Industrial Segment 

Our Industrial segment designs and manufactures a variety of products within three principal product lines. Industrial segment revenues, which represented 30%, 28% and 26% of our total revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fuel Systems and Functional Components 

Our Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line is produced by our Kautex business unit which is headquartered in Bonn, Germany and operates over 30 plants in 14 countries. Kautex is a leading developer and manufacturer of blow-molded plastic fuel systems for cars, light trucks and all-terrain vehicles. Kautex also develops and manufactures clear-vision systems for automobiles and selective catalytic reduction systems used to reduce emissions from diesel engines, as well as plastic bottles and containers for medical, household, agricultural, laboratory and industrial uses. Additionally, Kautex operates a business that produces cast iron engine camshafts, crankshafts and other engine components. Kautex serves the global automobile market, with operating facilities near its major customers around the world. 

Our automotive products have several major competitors worldwide, some of which are affiliated with the OEMs that comprise our targeted customer base. Competition typically is based on a number of factors including price, technology, environmental performance, product quality and reliability, prior experience and available manufacturing capacity. 

Specialized Vehicles 

Our Specialized Vehicles product line includes products sold by the Textron Specialized Vehicles businesses under the E-Z-GO, Textron Off Road, Arctic Cat, TUG Technologies, Douglas Equipment, Premier, Safeaero, Ransomes, Jacobsen, Cushman and Dixie Chopper brands. These businesses design, manufacture and sell golf cars, off-road utility vehicles, recreational side-by-side and all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles, light transportation vehicles, aviation ground support equipment and professional turf-maintenance equipment, as well as specialized turf-care vehicles. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the acquisition of Arctic Cat that we completed on March 6, 2017. 

These businesses have a diversified customer base that includes golf courses and resorts, government agencies and municipalities, consumers, outdoor enthusiasts, and commercial and industrial users such as factories, warehouses, airports, planned communities, hunting preserves, educational and corporate campuses, sporting venues, municipalities and landscaping professionals. Sales are made through a combination of factory direct resources and a network of independent distributors and dealers worldwide. We have two major competitors for both golf cars and professional turf-maintenance equipment, and several competitors for off-road utility vehicles, recreational all-terrain and light transportation vehicles, side-by-sides and snowmobiles, aviation ground support equipment, and specialized turf-care products. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product features, product support and reputation. 

Tools and Test Equipment 

The Tools and Test Equipment product line includes products sold by businesses that design and manufacture powered equipment, electrical test and measurement instruments, mechanical and hydraulic tools, cable connectors, fiber optic assemblies, underground and aerial transmission and distribution products and power utility products. This product line encompasses the Greenlee, Greenlee Communications, Greenlee Utility, HD Electric, Klauke, Sherman+Reilly and Endura businesses and brands. Their products are used principally in the construction, maintenance, telecommunications, data communications, electrical, utility and plumbing industries, and are distributed through a global network of sales representatives and distributors, as well as through direct sales to home improvement retailers and OEMs. The businesses have plant operations in five countries with almost half of their combined revenues coming from outside the United States. These businesses face competition from numerous manufacturers based primarily on price, delivery lead time, product quality and reliability. 

Finance Segment 

Our Finance segment, or the Finance group, is a commercial finance business that consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Finance segment provides financing primarily to purchasers of new and pre-owned Textron Aviation aircraft and Bell helicopters. A substantial number of the new originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the U.S. Finance receivables originated in the U.S. are primarily for purchasers who had difficulty in accessing other sources of financing for the purchase of Textron-manufactured products. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, our Finance group paid our Manufacturing group $174 million, $173 million and $194 million, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties that were financed by the Finance group. 

6 

Table of Contents 

The commercial finance business traditionally is extremely competitive. Our Finance segment is subject to competition from various types of financing institutions, including banks, leasing companies, commercial finance companies and finance operations of equipment vendors. Competition within the commercial finance industry primarily is focused on price, term, structure and service. 

Our Finance segment’s largest business risk is the collectability of its finance receivable portfolio. See “Finance Portfolio Quality” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 28 for information about the Finance segment’s credit performance. 

Backlog 

Our backlog at the end of 2017 and 2016 is summarized below: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Approximately 38% of our total backlog at December 30, 2017 represents orders that are not expected to be filled in 2018. 

Backlog with the U.S. Government represented 58% of our total backlog at December 30, 2017 and excluded amounts where funding has not been formally appropriated. At December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, Bell’s backlog included $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, related to a multi-year contract with the U.S. Government for the purchase of V-22 tiltrotor aircraft. 

For information regarding the impact of the new revenue recognition accounting standard on backlog, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 48 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

U.S. Government Contracts 

In 2017, approximately 22% of our consolidated revenues were generated by or resulted from contracts with the U.S. Government, excluding those contracts under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program. This business is subject to competition, changes in procurement policies and regulations, the continuing availability of funding, which is dependent upon congressional appropriations, national and international priorities for defense spending, world events, and the size and timing of programs in which we may participate. 

Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including, if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted and services rendered, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and an amount for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government may not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and may be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; (c) the U.S. Government may not be liable for assets we own and utilize to provide services under the “fee-for-service” contracts; and (d) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. 

Research and Development 

Information regarding our research and development expenditures is contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 47 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Patents and Trademarks 

We own, or are licensed under, numerous patents throughout the world relating to products, services and methods of manufacturing. Patents developed while under contract with the U.S. Government may be subject to use by the U.S. Government. We also own or license active trademark registrations and pending trademark applications in the U.S. and in various foreign countries or regions, as well as trade names and service marks. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole. Some of these trademarks, trade names and service marks are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, including: A-2PATS; Able Aerospace Services; Able Preferred; Aeronautical Accessories; AAI; acAlert; Aerosonde; AirScout; Alterra; AH-1Z; Ambush; Arctic Cat; Ascent; 

7 

Table of Contents 

AVCOAT; Baron; BattleHawk; Bearcat; Beechcraft; Beechcraft T-6; Bell; Bell Helicopter; Bell 505; BENDWORKS; BlackWorks McCauley; Bonanza; Cadillac Gage; CAP; Caravan; Caravan Amphibian; Caravan 675; Cessna; Cessna 350; Cessna 400; Cessna SkyCourier; Cessna Turbo Skylane JT-A; Cessna Turbo Skyhawk JT-A; Citation; CITATION ALPINE EDITION; Citation Encore+; Citation Latitude; Citation Longitude; Citation M2; Citation Sovereign; Citation X; Citation X+; Citation XLS+; CJ1+; CJ2+; CJ3; CJ3+; CJ4; Clairity; CLAW; CLEARTEST; Commando; Cushman; Customer Advantage Plans; CUSV; DataScout; Denali; Dixie Chopper; Dixie Chopper Stryker; Double Vision; Duct Dawg; Eclipse; El Tigre; ENFORCER; E-Z-GO; E-Z-GO EXPRESS; FAST-N-LATCH; FASTRAP; Firecat; Firefly; FOREVER WARRANTY; Fury; G3 Tugger; GatorEye; Gator Grips; GLOBAL MISSION SUPPORT; Gorilla; Grand Caravan; Greenlee; H-1; HAULER; HDE; Hawker; Hemisphere; Huey; Huey II; iCommand; iPress; IE2; Instinct; Integrated Command Suite; INTELLIBRAKE; INTELLI-CRIMP; Jacobsen; Jacobsen HoverKing; Jet Ranger X; Kautex; King Air; King Air C90GTx; King Air 250; King Air 350; Kiowa Warrior; Klauke; LF; LOOKOUT; Lycoming; Lynx; M1117 ASV; MADE FOR THE TRADE; McCauley; Mechtronix; MicroObserver; Millenworks; Mission Critical Support (MCS); MISSIONLINK; Motorfist; MudPro; Mustang; Next Generation Carbon Canister; Next Generation Fuel System; NGCC; NGFS; NightWarden; Odyssey; ONSLAUGHT; Overwatch; Pantera; PDCue; Power Advantage; Premier; Pro-Fit; ProFlight; ProParts; ProPropeller; Prowler; Ransomes; REALCue; REALFeel; Recoil; Relentless; ROCONNECT; RT2; RXV; SABER; Safeaero; Safe-Zone; Scorpion; Shadow; Shadow Knight; Shadow Master; Sherman+Reilly; Skyhawk; Skyhawk SP; Skylane; SkyPLUS; Sno Pro; SnoCross; Sovereign; Speed Punch; Speedrack; Spider; Stampede; Stationair; ST 4X4; Super Cargomaster; Super Medium; SuperCobra; SYMTX; Synturian; TDCue; Team Arctic; Textron; Textron Airborne Solutions; Textron Aviation; Textron Defense Systems; Textron Financial Corporation; Textron GSE; Textron Marine & Land Systems; Textron Off Road; Textron Systems; Thundercat; TI-Metal; TRUESET; TRU Simulation + Training; TRUCKSTER; TTx; TUG; Turbo Skylane; Turbo Stationair; TRV; UH-1Y; Under Dawg; V-Watch; VALOR; Value-Driven MRO Solutions; V-22 Osprey; V-247; V-280; Watchman; Wildcat; Wolverine; ZR; 2FIVE; 206; 407; 407GT; 407GX; 412; 429; 505; 525 and 525 Relentless. These marks and their related trademark designs and logotypes (and variations of the foregoing) are trademarks, trade names or service marks of Textron Inc., its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures. 

Environmental Considerations 

Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment. Compliance with these laws and expenditures for environmental control facilities has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Additional information regarding environmental matters is contained in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 66 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on our business or markets nor on our results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. 

Employees 

At December 30, 2017, we had approximately 37,000 employees. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 15, 2018. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mr. Donnelly joined Textron in June 2008 as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer in January 2009. He was appointed to the Board of Directors in October 2009 and became Chief Executive Officer of Textron in December 2009, at which time the Chief Operating Officer position was eliminated. In July 2010, Mr. Donnelly was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors effective September 1, 2010. Previously, Mr. Donnelly was the President and CEO of General Electric Company’s Aviation business unit, a position he had held since July 2005. GE’s Aviation business unit is a leading maker of commercial and military jet engines and components, as well as integrated digital, electric power and mechanical systems for aircraft. Prior to July 2005, Mr. Donnelly served as Senior Vice President of GE Global Research, one of the world’s largest and most diversified industrial research organizations with facilities in the U.S., India, China and Germany and held various other management positions since joining General Electric in 1989. 

8 

Table of Contents 

Mr. Connor joined Textron in August 2009 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Previously, Mr. Connor was head of Telecom Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs & Co. from 2003 to 2008. Prior to that position, he served as Chief Operating Officer of Telecom, Technology and Media Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs & Co. from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Connor joined the Corporate Finance Department of Goldman, Sachs & Co. in 1986 and became a Vice President in 1990 and a Managing Director in 1996. 

Ms. Duffy was named Executive Vice President, Human Resources in July 2017. Ms. Duffy joined Textron in 1997 as a member of the corporate legal team and has since held positions of increasing responsibility within the Company’s legal function, most recently serving as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel-Litigation, a position she had held since 2011. In that role she was responsible for managing the corporate litigation staff with primary oversight of litigation throughout Textron. She has also played an active role in developing, implementing and standardizing human resources policies across the Company and served as the senior legal advisor on employment and benefits issues. 

Mr. Lupone joined Textron in February 2012 as Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer. Previously, he was senior vice president and general counsel of Siemens Corporation (U.S.) since 1999 and general counsel of Siemens AG for the Americas since 2008. Prior to joining Siemens in 1992, Mr. Lupone was vice president and general counsel of Price Communications Corporation. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge on our Internet Web site (www.textron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Forward-Looking Information 

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, which may describe strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures, often include words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “guidance,” “project,” “target,” “potential,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “likely” or “may” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors described herein under “Risk Factors,” among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results are the following: 

· Interruptions in the U.S. Government’s ability to fund its activities and/or pay its obligations; 

· Changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget, including those related to military operations in foreign countries; 

· Our ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the U.S. Government; 

· The U.S. Government’s ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us for the U.S. Government’s convenience or for our failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, or, under certain circumstances, to withhold payment or suspend or debar us as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards; 

· Changes in foreign military funding priorities or budget constraints and determinations, or changes in government regulations or policies on the export and import of military and commercial products; 

· Volatility in the global economy or changes in worldwide political conditions that adversely impact demand for our products; 

· Volatility in interest rates or foreign exchange rates; 

· Risks related to our international business, including establishing and maintaining facilities in locations around the world and relying on joint venture partners, subcontractors, suppliers, representatives, consultants and other business partners in connection with international business, including in emerging market countries; 

· Our Finance segment’s ability to maintain portfolio credit quality or to realize full value of receivables; 

· Performance issues with key suppliers or subcontractors; 

· Legislative or regulatory actions, both domestic and foreign, impacting our operations or demand for our products; 

· Our ability to control costs and successfully implement various cost-reduction activities; 

· The efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products or unanticipated expenses in connection with the launching of significant new products or programs; 

9 

Table of Contents 

· The timing of our new product launches or certifications of our new aircraft products; 

· Our ability to keep pace with our competitors in the introduction of new products and upgrades with features and technologies desired by our customers; 

· Pension plan assumptions and future contributions; 

· Demand softness or volatility in the markets in which we do business; 

· Cybersecurity threats, including the potential misappropriation of assets or sensitive information, corruption of data or operational disruption; 

· Difficulty or unanticipated expenses in connection with integrating acquired businesses; 

· The risk that acquisitions do not perform as planned, including, for example, the risk that acquired businesses will not achieve revenues and profit projections; and 

· The impact of changes in tax legislation (including the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act). 

Item 1A. Risk Factors