ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_3_LINES]


     The following  discussion and analysis  should be read in conjunction  with
our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

     FORWARD  LOOKING  STATEMENTS:  This  Annual  Report on Form  10-K  contains
forward-looking  statements  within the meaning of the federal  securities laws.
All statements in this document,  other than statements of historical  fact, are
forward-looking  statements  which  may be  identified  by the use of the  words
"expects,"  "believes,"   "anticipates,"   "plans,"  "would,"  "should,"  "may,"
"estimates" and similar expressions.  These  forward-looking  statements involve
known and unknown  risks and  uncertainties,  which may cause  Public  Storage's
actual results and  performance to be materially  different from those expressed
or implied in the forward-looking  statements.  As a result, you should not rely
on any  forward-looking  statements in this report, or which management may make
orally or in writing  from time to time,  as  predictions  of future  events nor
guarantees of future performance.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements, which speak only as the date of this report or as of
the dates indicated in the statements.  All of our  forward-looking  statements,
including  those  in this  report,  are  qualified  in  their  entirely  by this
statement.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise
revise any forward-looking  statements,  whether as a result of new information,
new estimates,  or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this
document,  except where expressly required by law.  Accordingly,  you should use
caution in relying  on past  forward-looking  statements  to  anticipate  future
results.

     Factors  and risks  that may  impact our  future  results  and  performance
include,  but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and
in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ("SEC").

     CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  discusses our  consolidated  financial  statements,  which have been
prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting
principles  ("GAAP").  The  preparation of our financial  statements and related
disclosures  in  conformity  with GAAP and our  discussion  and  analysis of our
financial  condition  and  results of  operations  requires  management  to make
judgments,  assumptions  and estimates  that affect the amounts  reported in our
consolidated  financial  statements  and  accompanying  notes.  The notes to our
December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements, primarily Note 2, summarize
the significant  accounting  policies and methods used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.

     Management  believes the  following  are critical  accounting  policies the
application  of  which  has  a  material  impact  on  the  Company's   financial
presentation. That is, they are both important to the portrayal of our financial
condition  and  results,  and they  require  management  to make  judgments  and
estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.

     QUALIFICATION AS A REIT - INCOME TAX EXPENSE:  We believe that we have been
organized  and operated,  and we intend to continue to operate,  as a qualifying
REIT under the Code and  applicable  state laws.  We also believe that  Shurgard
qualified as a REIT.  A REIT  generally  does not pay  corporate  level  federal
income taxes on its REIT taxable income that is distributed to its shareholders,
and  accordingly,  we do not pay  federal  income  tax on the  share of our REIT
taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders.

     We therefore  do not estimate or accrue any federal  income tax expense for
income earned and distributed related to REIT operations. This estimate could be
incorrect,  because  due  to  the  complex  nature  of  the  REIT  qualification
requirements,   the  ongoing  importance  of  factual   determinations  and  the
possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we cannot be assured that we
actually have satisfied or will satisfy the  requirements for taxation as a REIT
for any  particular  taxable  year.  For any  taxable  year that we fail or have
failed to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable  relief  provisions did not
apply,  we would be taxed at the regular  corporate  rates on all of our taxable
income,  whether or not we made or make any  distributions to our  shareholders.
Any resulting  requirement to pay corporate income tax, including any applicable
penalties or interest,  could have a material  adverse  impact on our  financial
condition or results of  operations.  Unless  entitled to relief under  specific
statutory provisions,  we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for

                                       27
<PAGE>

the four taxable  years  following  the year for which  qualification  was lost.
There can be no assurance that we would be entitled to any statutory  relief. In
addition,  if  Shurgard  failed to qualify as a REIT,  we  generally  would have
succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities.

     IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS: Substantially all of our assets consist of
long-lived  assets,  including  real  estate and other  intangible  assets.  The
evaluation of our long-lived assets for impairment includes  determining whether
indicators  of  impairment  exist,  which  is a  subjective  process.  When  any
indicators of impairment  are found,  the evaluation of such  long-lived  assets
then entails  projections of future  operating  cash flows,  which also involves
significant  judgment.  Future events, or facts and circumstances that currently
exist, that we have not yet identified, could cause us to conclude in the future
that our long-lived  assets are impaired.  Any resulting  impairment  loss could
have a  material  adverse  impact on our  financial  condition  and  results  of
operations.

     ESTIMATED  USEFUL  LIVES OF  LONG-LIVED  ASSETS:  Substantially  all of our
assets consist of  depreciable  or  amortizable,  long-lived  assets.  We record
depreciation  and  amortization  expense with respect to these assets based upon
their estimated  useful lives. Any change in the estimated useful lives of those
assets,  caused by functional or economic  obsolescence or other factors,  could
have a  material  adverse  impact  on our  financial  condition  or  results  of
operations.

     ACCRUALS FOR CONTINGENCIES:  We are exposed to business and legal liability
risks with respect to events that have occurred, but in accordance with GAAP, we
have not accrued for such potential  liabilities  because the loss is either not
probable  or not  estimable  or because  we are not aware of the  event.  Future
events and the  results of pending  litigation  could  result in such  potential
losses  becoming  probable and  estimable,  which could have a material  adverse
impact on our  financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.  Some of these
potential  losses,  of  which  we are  aware,  are  described  in Note 13 to our
December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements.

     ACCRUALS  FOR  OPERATING  EXPENSES:  We accrue for property tax expense and
certain other operating  expenses based upon estimates and historical trends and
current and anticipated  local and state government  rules and  regulations.  If
these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, our expenses could be misstated.

     VALUATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ACQUIRED IN BUSINESS  COMBINATIONS:  We
have estimated the fair value of real estate,  intangible assets,  debt, and the
other  assets and other  liabilities  acquired  in business  combinations,  most
notably the Shurgard  Merger.  We have acquired these assets,  in certain cases,
with non-cash assets, most notably the 38.9 million shares that we issued to the
Shurgard  shareholders.   These  estimates  are  based  upon  many  assumptions,
including  interest  rates,  market values of land and buildings in the U.S. and
Europe,  estimated future cash flows from the then tenant base in place, and the
recoverability  of certain  assets.  We believe that the  assumptions  used were
reasonable,  however,  these assumptions were subject to a significant degree of
judgment,  and others could come to materially  different  conclusions as to the
estimated  values,  if  different  assumptions  were used.  If the  values  were
determined  using different  assumptions  than those used, our  depreciation and
amortization  expense,  interest expense,  gain on disposition of an interest in
Shurgard  Europe,  real  estate,  debt,  and  intangible  assets could have been
materially different.

     OVERVIEW OF MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS

     Our principal  business  activities  include the acquisition,  development,
ownership and operation of  self-storage  facilities  which offer storage spaces
for lease,  generally on a month-to-month  basis, for personal and business use.
We are the largest  owner and operator of  self-storage  facilities in the U.S.,
and we have an interest in what we believe is the largest  owner and operator of
self-storage facilities in Europe.

     We currently  operate within three reportable  segments:  (i) self-storage,
(ii) Shurgard Europe and (iii) ancillary. The self-storage segment comprises the
direct and indirect ownership, development, and operation of traditional storage
facilities in the U.S. Our Shurgard Europe segment comprises our equity interest
in the  self-storage  and  associated  activities in seven  countries in Western
Europe. Our ancillary segment represents all of our other activities,  which are
reported  as a group,  including  (i)  containerized  storage,  (ii)  commercial
property  operations,  directly  and  through our 46%  ownership  interest in PS
Business Parks, Inc.  ("PSB"),  a publicly traded REIT whose common stock trades
on the New York Stock  Exchange under the symbol "PSB" (as of December 31, 2008,
PSB owned and  operated  19.6  million net  rentable  square feet of  commercial
space),  (iii) the  reinsurance  of policies  against  losses to goods stored by
tenants in our self-storage facilities,  (iv) retail operations conducted at our
self-storage  facilities including  merchandise sales and truck rentals, and (v)
management of self-storage  facilities owned by third-party  owners and domestic
facilities  owned  by the  Unconsolidated  Entities.  See  also  Note  11 to our

                                       28
<PAGE>

December 31, 2008  consolidated  financial  statements  for further  information
regarding our segments.

     We significantly  increased the scope and scale of our operations on August
22, 2006, when we merged with Shurgard Storage Centers, Inc. ("Shurgard" and the
merger  referred to as the "Shurgard  Merger"),  a REIT which had an interest in
487  self-storage  facilities  located in the U.S.  and an  interest in Shurgard
Europe's 160 facilities.  On March 31, 2008, we entered into a transaction  with
an  institutional   investor  (the  transaction   referred  to  as  the  "Europe
Transaction")  whereby  the  investor  acquired  a 51%  equity  interest  in our
European operations ("Shurgard Europe").  Shurgard Europe held substantially all
of our  operations  in Europe.  Since March 31, 2008,  we own the  remaining 49%
interest and are the managing  member of Shurgard  European  Holdings LLC, a new
joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe's operations.

     Our self-storage  facilities in the U.S. comprise  approximately 90% of our
operating revenue,  and represent the primary driver of growth in our net income
and cash flows from operations.  In addition, much of our ancillary revenues are
derived  at our  self-storage  facility  locations,  either  from  our  existing
self-storage  customer base or from the customer traffic within our self-storage
facilities.  Accordingly, a large portion of management time and focus is placed
upon maximizing  revenues and effectively  managing expenses in our self-storage
facilities.

     The self-storage  industry is not immune to the  recessionary  pressures in
the general economic environment. Demand for self-storage space in both the U.S.
and Europe has softened and, as a result, we are experiencing  downward pressure
on occupancy  levels,  rental rates, and revenue growth in each of our operating
segments.

     An important  determinant  of our long-term  growth is the expansion of our
asset base and deployment of capital.  Acquisitions of  self-storage  facilities
have  been  minimal  over  the  past  year  as we  continue  to  monitor  seller
expectations  and wait for better  opportunities  that may come about as certain
local developers,  who raised capital through the issuance of debt,  endeavor to
refinance such debt in the near-term,  but face the current tight credit markets
as  well as  pressure  on  operating  cash  flow  due to the  current  difficult
operating environment.

     While  historically  we have  developed  real  estate  facilities,  we have
substantially  reduced our development  activities due to the existing recession
and our belief  that our  capital  can be more  effectively  put to use in other
ways.

     We currently  have $680.7 million in cash on hand at December 31, 2008, and
continue  to monitor  the  appropriate  and most  effective  way to deploy  this
capital,  primarily  either through the acquisition of facilities or through the
opportunistic  acquisition of our own debt and equity  securities.  We acquired,
for $66.9 million,  certain of our preferred securities in November and December
2008 at a substantial  discount to  liquidation  value,  and we acquired  $110.2
million of our outstanding senior unsecured notes during February 2009.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OPERATING  RESULTS FOR 2008 AS  COMPARED TO 2007:  Net income for the year ended
December  31, 2008 was $935.2  million  compared to $457.5  million for the same
period in 2007,  representing an improvement of $477.7 million. This improvement
is primarily due to a gain of $344.7 million  recognized on the disposition of a
51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, improvements in net operating
income with respect to our domestic  self-storage  facilities and a reduction in
amortization of intangible assets, offset by a foreign currency exchange loss of
$25.4  million  for the year ended  December  31,  2008 as compared to a foreign
exchange gain of $58.4 million in 2007.

     Comparisons  of our revenues  and expenses for the year ended  December 31,
2008 to the year ended  December  31,  2007 are  significantly  impacted  by the
acquisition by an institutional investor of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on

                                       29
<PAGE>

March 31,  2008,  which  resulted in the  deconsolidation  of  Shurgard  Europe.
Shurgard  Europe's  revenues and expenses after March 31, 2008 are excluded from
our  statement  of  operations  and,  instead,  our 49% equity share of Shurgard
Europe's  operating results are included in the line item "equity in earnings of
real estate  entities" and we also record interest and other income with respect
to (i) the interest  received on our intercompany  loan from Shurgard Europe and
(ii) license fee income.

     For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we allocated $205.9 million
and  $236.8  million  of  our  net  income,   respectively,   to  our  preferred
shareholders.  The year-over-year  decrease is due primarily to an allocation of
income  from our  preferred  shareholders  to our common  shareholders  of $33.9
million, representing the excess of original net proceeds from issuance over the
amount  paid  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  2008  pursuant  to  preferred  share
repurchases.

     For the year ended  December 31, 2008,  net income  allocable to our common
shareholders   (after   allocating  net  income  to  our  preferred  and  equity
shareholders)  was $708.1  million or $4.19 per common share on a diluted  basis
compared  to $199.4  million  or $1.17 per common  share for the same  period in
2007,  representing  an improvement of $508.7 million or $3.02 per common share.
These  increases  are  due  primarily  to the  aforementioned  reduction  in the
allocation of net income to our preferred  shareholders  in connection  with the
repurchase of securities,  along with the impact of the factors  described above
with respect to the increase in our net income.

     Weighted  average diluted common shares were  168,883,000 and  170,147,000,
respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. The decline is due
primarily to common share repurchases in the first quarter of 2008.

     OPERATING  RESULTS FOR 2007 AS  COMPARED  TO 2006:  Net income for the year
ended  December 31, 2007 was $457.5  million  compared to $314.0 million for the
same period in 2006,  representing an increase of $143.5 million.  This increase
is primarily due to improved operations from our real estate facilities combined
with an increased  foreign currency exchange gain and a reduction in general and
administrative  expense.  These  items were  partially  offset by  increases  in
depreciation and amortization expense and interest expense.

     Comparisons  of  our  revenues,   expenses,  and  weighted  average  shares
outstanding are significantly  impacted by the Shurgard Merger,  which closed on
August 22, 2006. The results with respect to the assets and liabilities acquired
in the  Shurgard  Merger are included in our  operating  results from August 23,
2006  through  December 31, 2006 during the year ended  December  31,  2006,  as
compared to the entire year ended December 31, 2007.

     Net operating income, before depreciation,  for our self-storage operations
totaled  $1,082.2  million for the year ended  December  31, 2007 as compared to
$810.8 million for the same period in 2006,  representing  an increase of $271.4
million. The increase is primarily due to the addition of 647 facilities that we
acquired in the Shurgard  Merger.  Net operating  income of the former  Shurgard
properties  was  approximately  $347.8  million for the year ended  December 31,
2007, as compared to $110.1 million for the same period in 2006,  which reflects
the  operations of these  facilities  from August 23, 2006 through  December 31,
2006.

         Net income allocable to our common shareholders (after allocating net
income to our preferred and equity shareholders) was $199.4 million or $1.17 per
common share on a diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to
$46.9 million or $0.33 per common share on a diluted basis for the same period
in 2006, representing an increase of $152.5 million or $0.84 per common share on
a diluted basis. The increase in net income allocable to common shareholders and
earnings per common share on a diluted basis are due primarily to the impact of
the factors described above with respect to net income, as well as a decrease in
income allocated to preferred shareholders, as described below.


     For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we allocated $236.8 million
and  $214.2  million  of  our  net  income,   respectively,   to  our  preferred
shareholders based on distributions paid. The year-over-year  increase is due to
the  issuance  of  additional  preferred  securities,  partially  offset  by the
redemption of preferred securities that had higher dividend rates than the newly
preferred  securities issued. In 2006, we also recorded allocations of income to

                                       30
<PAGE>

our preferred  shareholders  with respect to the  application of EITF Topic D-42
totaling  $31.5  million  (or $0.22  per  common  share on a  diluted  basis) in
connection with the redemption of preferred securities.

     Weighted average diluted shares increased to 170,147,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2007 from  143,715,000  for the year ended  December 31, 2006.  The
increase in weighted  average  diluted  shares is due primarily to the impact of
the issuance of 38.9 million shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger.

REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     SELF-STORAGE OPERATIONS: Our self-storage operations are by far the largest
component of our operating  activities,  representing  approximately  91% of our
total  revenues  generated for the year ended  December 31, 2008,  respectively.
Rental income with respect to our  self-storage  operations  declined by 4.9% in
the year ended  December 31, 2008,  when compared to the same period in 2007 due
primarily to the  deconsolidation  of Shurgard  Europe  effective April 1, 2008,
offset  partially  by growth in our  remaining  facilities.  Rental  income with
respect to our  self-storage  operations  grew by 34.1% in 2007,  as compared to
2006.  The  year-over-year  growth in  rental  income  is  primarily  due to the
acquisition  of additional  facilities in  connection  with the Shurgard  Merger
combined  with the addition of new  facilities to our portfolio in 2006 and 2007
and their subsequent fill-up.

     To enhance year-over-year comparisons,  the following table summarizes, and
the  ensuing  discussion  describes  the  operating  results of three  groups of
facilities  that management  analyzes with respect to the Company's  performance
for our  self-storage  segment,  which  includes:  (i)  the  Same  Store  group,
representing our domestic facilities that we have owned and have been stabilized
prior to January 1, 2006, as well as certain of the U.S.  facilities we acquired
in the Shurgard Merger on August 22, 2006 which were stabilized since January 1,
2006, for our Shurgard Europe segment and (ii) all other facilities  included in
our financial  statements other than those owned by Shurgard  Europe,  which are
primarily  those  facilities  that have not been operated at a stabilized  basis
since January 1, 2006 because they are either newly  developed or acquired since
2006 or because expansion  activities were not stabilized since January 1, 2006,
and for the  facilities  operated  by  Shurgard  Europe  which were  acquired in
connection  with the  Shurgard  Merger on August 22,  2006,  and  deconsolidated
effective March 31, 2008.


                                       31
<PAGE>

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_63_LINES]

</TABLE>

(a)  Represents the results with respect to Shurgard Europe's properties for the
     periods  consolidated  in  our  financial  statements.  We  acquired  these
     facilities on August 22, 2006 in connection  with the Shurgard  Merger.  As
     described  in  Note 3 to  our  December  31,  2008  consolidated  financial
     statements,  effective March 31, 2008, we  deconsolidated  Shurgard Europe.
     See also  "Equity in  Earnings  of Real  Estate  Entities -  Investment  in
     Shurgard Europe" for further analysis of the historical same store property
     operations of Shurgard Europe.

(b)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization or "NOI" is
     a non-GAAP  (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial measure
     that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense. See Note
     11 to our December 31, 2008  consolidated  financial  statements,  "Segment
     Information,"  which includes a reconciliation  of NOI for our self-storage
     and  Shurgard  Europe  segments to our  consolidated  net income.  Although
     depreciation and amortization are operating  expenses,  we believe that NOI
     is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in
     making  decisions  with  respect to  capital  allocations,  in  determining
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_3_LINES]

     amortization in evaluating our operating results.


                                       32
<PAGE>

     Same Store Facilities

     We have  1,789 Same  Store  Facilities  that  contain  approximately  109.4
million  net  rentable  square  feet,  representing  approximately  87%  of  the
aggregate net rentable  square feet of our  consolidated  domestic  self-storage
portfolio at December 31, 2008. The  significance  of this pool of facilities is
that they have all  operated on a  stabilized  basis for at least the past three
years. This gives management a meaningful year-over-year comparison of operating
data.  Revenues and operating  expenses with respect to this group are set forth
in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_49_LINES]

</TABLE>


(a)  For  comparative  purposes,  the 2006  operating  data includes  historical
     amounts for the entire year for the  stabilized  properties  we acquired in
     the  Shurgard  Merger on August  22,  2006.  Included  in our  consolidated
     financial  statements  are only the historical  operating  results of these
     facilities after August 22, 2006.

(b)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization  expense or
     "NOI" is a non-GAAP (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
     measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense.
     For our Same  Store  facilities,  NOI  represents  a  portion  of our total
     self-storage  segment's NOI and is reconciled to the  self-storage  segment
     total  in  the   table   "self-storage   operations   summary"   above.   A
     reconciliation of our total self-storage  segment's NOI to consolidated net
     income  is  included  in  Note 11 to our  December  31,  2008  consolidated
     financial  statements,  "Segment  Information."  Although  depreciation and
     amortization  are operating  expenses,  we believe that NOI is a meaningful
     measure  of  operating  performance,  because  we  utilize  NOI  in  making
     decisions  with  respect to capital  allocations,  in  determining  current
     property values,  segment performance,  and comparing  period-to-period and
     market-to-market  property operating  results.  NOI is not a substitute for
     net  operating  income  after  depreciation  and  amortization  expense  in
     evaluating our operating results.

                                       33
<PAGE>

(c)  Square foot occupancies  represent  weighted average  occupancy levels over
     the entire period.

(d)  Realized  annual  rent per  occupied  square  foot is  computed by dividing
     rental income,  which excludes late charges and administrative fees, by the
     weighted  average  occupied square footage for the period.  Realized annual
     rent  per  occupied  square  foot  takes  into  consideration   promotional
     discounts and other items that reduce  rental  income from the  contractual
     amounts due.

(e)  Annualized  rental income per available  square foot ("REVPAF")  represents
     annualized  rental income,  which excludes late charges and  administrative
     fees, divided by total available net rentable square feet.

(f)  Late charges and  administrative  fees are excluded from the computation of
     realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF because  exclusion
     of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue,
     by  excluding  the   volatility  of  late  charges,   which  are  dependent
     principally upon the level of tenant delinquency,  and administrative fees,
     which are dependent  principally  upon the absolute level of move-ins for a
     period.

(g)  In place  annual  rent  per  occupied  square  foot  represents  annualized
     contractual   rents  per  occupied  square  foot  without   reductions  for
     promotional discounts, and excludes late charges and administrative fees.

     We believe  that  demand  for our  self-storage  space has been  negatively
impacted  by general  economic  conditions,  the slow down in housing  sales and
moving activity, as well as increased competition.  It is unclear to us how much
we have been  negatively  impacted by these factors,  and how much these factors
may impact us going forward.  In order to most effectively  address the softness
in demand, we have continued to closely monitor and change our media advertising
on a localized basis, increased the level of promotional discounts and have been
conservative   with  rental  rates  during  2008.  We  expect  to  be  similarly
conservative in rental rates and media advertising in the expectation of similar
trends in the near term.

     Rental income increased approximately 2.5% in 2008 as compared to 2007, and
3.0% in 2007 as compared to 2006. These increases were primarily attributable to
higher average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot, which were
2.4% higher in 2008 as compared to 2007,  and 2.6% higher in 2007 as compared to
2006. Occupancy levels remained consistent during the three years ended December
31, 2008.

     However,  in the three months  ended  December  31,  2008,  revenue  growth
tightened to 1.6% relative to the same period in 2007. At December 31, 2008, our
occupancy is 0.9% lower than at December 31, 2007,  while  in-place  rental rate
per  occupied  square foot was 0.7% higher at December 31, 2008 than at December
31, 2007. We believe that these trends are due to the  aforementioned  reduction
in demand for  self-storage  space,  and it is uncertain  whether the trends may
worsen or when they may improve.

     Cost of operations (excluding  depreciation and amortization)  increased by
1.0% in 2008 as compared to 2007,  and  decreased by 2.0% in 2007 as compared to
2006.  Growth  increased  minimally in 2008 as higher property tax and utilities
expenses were partially offset by lower property  insurance  expense as compared
to 2007. In 2007, we benefited from scale  efficiencies from the Shurgard Merger
as compared to 2006.

     Direct property  payroll  expense  increased by 1.1% in 2008 as compared to
2007. The increase  reflects lower  incentive pay and stagnant growth in average
wage rates,  offset by higher  hours  incurred  due to  adjustments  in staffing
levels. In 2007, payroll expense declined 13.5% over 2006. Prior to the Shurgard
Merger,  Shurgard paid its property  managers higher  compensation  than what we
paid our  property  managers.  Starting  January  1, 2007,  the former  Shurgard
employees who remained had their  compensation  adjusted to the existing  Public
Storage  compensation  levels.  Also in 2007, many of the inefficiencies such as
overtime and increased staffing levels used to manage increased turnover that we
experienced in 2006, as we were  integrating  the Shurgard  facilities  into our
portfolio,  were  eliminated.  For 2009,  we expect  moderate  growth  trends in
payroll.

     Property tax expense  increased by 2.9% in 2008 as compared to 2007, and in
2007 as compared to 2006. These increases are due to increases in assessments of
property  values that have been greater than we experienced  in prior years.  We
expect property tax expense growth of approximately 4% in 2009.

     Repairs  and  maintenance  expenditures  were flat  from  2007 to 2008,  as
compared  to a  2.2%  increase  from  2006  to  2007.  Repairs  and  maintenance
expenditures are dependent upon several factors,  such as weather, the timing of

                                       34
<PAGE>

periodic  needs  throughout  our  portfolio,  inflation,  and random  events and
accordingly  are  difficult  to project  from year to year.  However,  we expect
repairs and maintenance expenditures to grow moderately in 2009.

     Media  advertising for the Same Store Facilities  decreased 3.6% in 2008 as
compared to 2007,  and from $2.6  million in the fourth  quarter of 2007 to $0.9
million in the fourth  quarter of 2008.  In 2007,  media  advertising  increased
31.9%  over 2006.  The  significant  increase  in media  advertising  in 2007 as
compared to 2006 reflects increased media spending in 2006 immediately following
the Shurgard  Merger in order to improve the occupancy  levels of the facilities
we  acquired  in the  merger.  Other  advertising  and  promotion  is  comprised
principally of yellow page and internet advertising, which decreased 3.1% during
2008 as compared to 2007, and 13.4% during 2007 as compared to 2006.

     Due to current  market  conditions  we expect  that we will  continue to be
aggressive  with media  advertising  in the near term,  with  increases in media
advertising  in the first  quarter of 2009 as compared  to the first  quarter of
2008.  Our future  spending on yellow  page,  media,  and  internet  advertising
expenditures will be driven in part by demand for our self-storage  spaces,  our
current occupancy levels, and the relative efficacy of each type of advertising.
Media  advertising  in  particular  can be  volatile  and  increase  or decrease
significantly in the short-term.

     Utility  expenses  increased  4.1% in 2008 as compared to 2007, and 2.3% in
2007 as compared to 2006.  We believe this  negative  impact is due to the rapid
increase in energy prices during the first nine months of 2008,  particularly in
our Texas and New York  markets.  The  recent  downward  trends in other  energy
prices and to the extent that such downward  trends are reflected in our utility
costs,  we experienced  some moderation in utility price increases in the fourth
quarter of 2008 relative to the same period in 2007. It is difficult to estimate
future utility cost levels  because  utility costs are dependent upon changes in
demand driven by weather and temperature,  as well as fuel prices, both of which
are volatile and not predictable.

     Insurance  expense  decreased  15.6%  in  2008 as  compared  to  2007,  and
increased  3.2% in 2007 as  compared  to 2006.  The  decline  in 2008  from 2007
reflects  significant  decreases in property insurance  resulting primarily from
the  softer  insurance  markets as lack of  hurricane  activity  and  additional
competition  from  insurance  providers has  benefited  us. We expect  insurance
expense to be down slightly in 2009 as compared to 2008.

     Telephone  reservation  center costs  remained  flat in 2008 as compared to
2007 after  increasing 6.3% from 2006 to 2007. We expect future increases in our
telephone reservation center to be based primarily upon general inflation.

                                       35
<PAGE>


     The following  table  summarizes  selected  quarterly  financial  data with
respect to the Same Store Facilities:
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_48_LINES]


</TABLE>

                                       36


<PAGE>


ANALYSIS OF REGIONAL TRENDS
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_10_LINES]

                                                  (Amounts in thousands, except for weighted average data)
SAME STORE FACILITIES OPERATING
TRENDS BY REGION
<CAPTION>
Rental income:
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_46_LINES]

</TABLE>

                                       37


<PAGE>


[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_33_LINES]


</TABLE>

     We believe  that our  geographic  diversification  and scale  provide  some
insulation from localized  economic effects and add to the stability of our cash
flows.  However,  it is  difficult  to predict  localized  trends in  short-term
self-storage  demand and operating  results.  Accordingly,  the discussion below
primarily  focuses on the long-term  characteristics  of our markets rather than
the short-term impacts of current economic trends,  notwithstanding,  we believe
that each market has been negatively impacted to some degree by general economic
trends.

     The Southern  California  Market  consists  principally  of the greater Los
Angeles area and San Diego, and has historically  been a source of strong growth
due to its  diverse  economy  and  continued  population  growth.  In  addition,
barriers  to entry  in the form of  difficult  permitting  requirements  tend to
reduce the potential for increased  competition in the infill locations where we
focus our operations.

     The Northern  California  market consists  principally of San Francisco and
related peripheral submarkets/cities.  While this area has a vibrant economy and
relatively strong population growth, it has been subject to periodic  turbulence
in general  economic  conditions,  particularly  associated  with the technology
sector.

     The Texas  market  principally  includes  Dallas,  Houston,  Austin and San
Antonio.  This market has historically been subject to volatility due to minimal
regulatory restraint upon building,  which results in cycles of overbuilding and
absorption.

     The Florida market  principally  includes Miami,  Orlando,  Tampa, and West
Palm Beach.  Florida has suffered  negative  growth trends in 2007 and 2008, and
has been one of our weakest markets.  We believe that the absence of hurricanes,
which created unusual demand following the hurricanes and the rebuilding period,
has adversely impacted growth in Florida.  In addition,  the Florida economy has
underperformed  the U.S. economy for the past two years. We believe that Florida
will continue to experience negative operating trends at least in the near-term.

                                       38

<PAGE>


     OTHER FACILITIES
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_4_LINES]

facilities,  recently  developed  facilities and  facilities  that were recently
expanded by adding  additional  storage units. In general,  these facilities are
not stabilized  with respect to occupancies or rental rates.  As a result of the
fill-up  process  and  timing  of when  the  facilities  were  put  into  place,
year-over-year changes can be significant.

     The  following  table  summarizes  operating  data  with  respect  to these
facilities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_53_LINES]

</TABLE>

                                       39
<PAGE>


[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_37_LINES]

</TABLE>

(a)  Includes 66  unstabilized  facilities  which we  acquired  in the  Shurgard
     Merger  (not  including  those  owned by  Shurgard  Europe),  along with 29
     facilities that were otherwise acquired or developed.

(b)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization or "NOI" is
     a non-GAAP  (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial measure
     that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense, for our
     self-storage  facilities  represents  a portion  of our total  self-storage
     segment's  net  operating  income  before   depreciation  and  amortization
     expense,  and is denoted  in the table  "self-storage  operations  summary"
     above. A reconciliation of our total  self-storage  segment's net operating
     income before  depreciation  and  amortization  expense to consolidated net
     income  is  included  in  Note 11 to our  December  31,  2008  consolidated
     financial  statements,  "Segment  Information."  Although  depreciation and
     amortization  expense  are  operating  expenses,  we believe  that NOI is a
     meaningful  measure of  operating  performance,  because we utilize  NOI in
     making  decisions  with  respect to  capital  allocations,  in  determining
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_3_LINES]

     amortization in evaluating our operating results.

(c)  Realized rent per occupied  square foot for the  facilities put in place in
     2006 and 2007 varies significantly between the periods in 2007 and 2008 due
     to the timing of when the specific facilities were put in place.

     Rental income,  cost of  operations,  depreciation,  net operating  income,
weighted  average square foot  occupancies and realized rents per square foot in
the  table  above  represent  the  operating  results  following  the date  each
particular facility began to be included in our consolidated  operating results,
and in the case of acquired  facilities,  do not include any  operating  results
prior to our acquisition of these facilities.

     In 2008,  we  completed  two newly  developed  facilities  with 104,000 net
rentable  square  feet at a total  cost of  $13.4  million,  and  expansions  to
existing  real estate  facilities  (504,000  net  rentable  square  feet) for an

                                       40
<PAGE>

aggregate cost of $46.6 million. At December 31, 2008, our development  pipeline
consists of five projects to expand our existing real estate facilities  located
in the U.S. by 189,000 net rentable  square feet at an  aggregate  cost of $27.1
million.  These  projects  are subject to various  contingencies,  but we expect
completion of these projects over the next year.

     In 2008, we acquired four facilities, in single property transactions,  and
we acquired  the  remaining  interests  that we did not own in three  facilities
previously  owned by the  Unconsolidated  Entities.  The aggregate cost of these
facilities was approximately $56.0 million,  comprised of $43.6 million in cash,
$10.3 million in assumed debt and existing investments with a book value of $2.1
million.  These  facilities  contain  in  aggregate  approximately  554,000  net
rentable square feet, and are located in California, Nevada, and Georgia.

     In 2007, we acquired seven facilities, in single property transactions, for
an  aggregate  cost  of  $72,787,000.  These  facilities  contain  in  aggregate
approximately  511,000 net rentable  square feet,  with one facility  located in
Hawaii and the remainder in California. In addition, we completed development of
three facilities with aggregate square footage of approximately 168,000 and cost
of $16,051,000.

     We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major
markets in the U.S.  enhances  our  ability to identify  attractive  acquisition
opportunities  and  capitalize  on the  overall  fragmentation  in  the  storage
industry.  Our acquisitions consist of facilities that have been operating for a
number of years as well as newly constructed facilities that were in the process
of filling up to stabilized  occupancy levels. In either case, we have been able
to leverage off of our operating  strategies and improve the occupancy levels of
the facilities,  or with respect to the newly developed  facilities we have been
able to accelerate the fill-up pace.

     We expect  that our  non-stabilized  facilities  will  continue  to provide
earnings growth during 2009 as these facilities continue to reach stabilization.
However,  our  non-stabilized  facilities  are subject to the same occupancy and
rate  pressures  that our  same-store  facilities  are facing as a result of the
recession,   and   accordingly  the  pace  at  which  these   facilities   reach
stabilization,  and  the  ultimate  level  of  cash  flows  to be  reached  upon
stabilization, may be negatively impacted.

     Our level of newly  developed  facilities,  and  starts to newly  developed
facilities, has declined significantly in the last few years due to increases in
construction  cost,  increases  in  competition  with retail,  condominium,  and
apartment operators for quality construction sites in urban locations,  and more
difficult  zoning and permitting  requirements,  which has reduced the number of
attractive  sites  available  for  development  and reduced our  development  of
facilities.  In addition,  we have further reduced our  development  pipeline in
late 2008 due to reduced self-storage demand and our belief that our capital can
be put to use in a more advantageous manner. It is unclear when these conditions
will improve.

                                       41


<PAGE>

     ANCILLARY  OPERATIONS:  Ancillary operations include (i) the reinsurance of
policies  against  losses  to  goods  stored  by  tenants  in  our  self-storage
facilities,  (ii) retail  operations,  comprised of merchandise  sales and truck
rental  operations,  and (iii) other  ancillary  operations,  such as commercial
property  operations,  containerized  storage,  and management of facilities for
third parties and facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Enitites.

     The following table sets forth our ancillary operations:
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_43_LINES]

</TABLE>
(a)  Revenues  and  expenses  for these items are a component  of our  Ancillary
     segment,  as described  in Note 11 to our  December  31, 2008  consolidated
     financial statements.

(b)  Shurgard  Europe's  merchandise  and  tenant  insurance  operations  are  a
     component of the Shurgard  Europe  segment,  as described in Note 11 to our
     December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements.

     Tenant  reinsurance  operations:  We reinsure  policies  offered  through a
non-affiliated  insurance  company  against  losses to goods  stored by tenants,
primarily in our domestic self-storage  facilities.  The revenues that we record
are based upon premiums,  which are originally  paid by the customer,  which are
then paid to us by the broker in accordance with our  reinsurance  arrangements.
Cost of operations  primarily  includes  claims paid that are not covered by our
outside third-party insurers, as well as claims adjusting expenses.

     The  increase  in  tenant  reinsurance  revenues  over  the  past  year was
attributable  to higher rates combined with an increase in the percentage of our
existing  tenants  retaining  such  policies.  Approximately  53% and 48% of our
tenants  had such  policies at December  31,  2008 and 2007,  respectively.  The
significant  increase in tenant  reinsurance  operations  in 2007 as compared to
2006 is due primarily to the increase in properties associated with the Shurgard
Merger.

     The future level of tenant  reinsurance  revenues is largely dependent upon
the number of new tenants electing to purchase  policies,  the level of premiums
charged  for  such   insurance,   and  the  number  of  tenants  that   continue
participating  in the  insurance  program.  Future  cost of  operations  will be
dependent  primarily upon the level of losses  incurred,  including the level of
catastrophic  events, such as hurricanes,  that occur and affect our properties.

                                       42
<PAGE>

During the year ended  December 31, 2008,  we reduced our cost of  operations by
$5.8  million  due  to  a  change  in   accounting   estimate  with  respect  to
circumstances prior to 2008.

     Merchandise sales and truck rental  operations:  We sell locks,  boxes, and
packing supplies,  rent on-site trucks, and act as an agent for a national truck
rental company to provide their rental trucks to our customers. These activities
are  conducted  at the  self-storage  facilities  that  we  operate,  and  exist
primarily  to support  and  strengthen  our  existing  self-storage  business by
providing our tenants with goods and services that they need in connection  with
moving and storing their goods.

     The primary factor impacting the level of operations of these activities is
the level of customer  traffic at our  self-storage  facilities,  including  the
level of move-ins. The volume of retail operations has declined primarily due to
reduced  trucking  revenues,  reflective  of the general  slow-down in the truck
rental business.

     Other ancillary  businesses:  We operate  additional  ancillary  businesses
which are largely  independent of the revenue stream from our core  self-storage
operations. These business include (i) our containerized storage business, which
rents storage  containers to customers for storage in central  warehouses,  (ii)
commercial  facilities,  primarily small storefronts and office space located on
or near our existing  self-storage  facilities that are rented to third parties,
and (iii) the  management  of  self-storage  facilities  utilizing  our existing
management   infrastructure,   to  third   party   owners  as  well  as  to  the
Unconsolidated  Entities.  These businesses have remained  largely  unchanged in
scope during the three years ended  December 31, 2008,  and we do not expect any
significant   increases  in  revenues  or  profitability  from  these  ancillary
businesses.

     EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF REAL ESTATE ENTITIES: In addition to our ownership of
equity  interests  in PSB  and  Shurgard  Europe,  we had  general  and  limited
partnership  interests in five limited  partnerships at December 31, 2008 Due to
our limited ownership interest and limited control of these entities,  we do not
consolidate the accounts of these entities for financial reporting purposes, and
account for such investments using the equity method.

     Equity in  earnings  of real  estate  entities  for the three  years  ended
December 31, 2008, consists of our pro-rata share of the Unconsolidated Entities
based upon our ownership interest for the period. The following table sets forth
the  significant  components  of equity in  earnings  of real  estate  entities.
Amounts  with  respect  to PSB,  Shurgard  Europe,  and Other  Investments,  are
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_41_LINES]

</TABLE>
(1) "Other" reflects our share of general and administrative  expense,  interest
expense,  interest  income,  our pro-rata  share of gains on sale of real estate
assets, and other  non-property;  non-depreciation  related operating results of
these entities.
                                       43
<PAGE>


     Investment in PSB
     -----------------

     Throughout  each of the years ended  December 31, 2008,  2007 and 2006,  we
owned 5,418,273 common shares and 7,305,355  operating  partnership units (units
which are convertible into common shares on a one-for-one  basis) in PS Business
Parks,  Inc.,  a public  REIT  (NYSE:  PSB).  Our  percentage  ownership  of PSB
increased in 2008 as PSB  repurchased a portion of its common stock. At December
31,  2008,  PSB owned and  operated  19.6  million net  rentable  square feet of
commercial  space located in eight  states.  PSB also manages  commercial  space
owned by the Company and  affiliated  entities at December 31, 2008  pursuant to
property management agreements.

     Our future  equity  income from PSB will be dependent  entirely  upon PSB's
operating results.  Our investment in PSB provides us with some  diversification
into another asset type. We have no plans of disposing of our investment in PSB.
PSB's filings and selected  financial  information  can be accessed  through the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and on its website, www.psbusinessparks.com.

     Investment in Shurgard Europe
     -----------------------------

     As  described in Note 3 to our  December  31, 2008  consolidated  financial
statements,  due to the  disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard  Europe,  our
pro-rata share of the operating  results of Shurgard Europe after March 31, 2008
is included in "equity in earnings of real estate entities."  Included in Note 5
to our December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements is selected financial
data for Shurgard Europe for the three years ended December 31, 2008.

     At December 31, 2008,  Shurgard Europe's operations comprise 180 facilities
with an aggregate of 9,534,000 net rentable square feet. The portfolio  consists
of 108 wholly owned  facilities and 72 facilities owned by the two joint venture
partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest.

     For the period  following the  deconsolidation  of Shurgard Europe on March
31, 2008, our equity in earnings of Shurgard Europe, for the year ended December
31,  2008  totaling  $4,134,000  is  comprised  of  (i) a loss  of  $13,640,000,
representing  our 49% equity  share of Shurgard  Europe's  $27,836,000  net loss
since March 31, 2008,  (ii) income of  $17,161,000  and $613,000,  respectively,
representing  our pro-rata  share of the interest  income and trademark  license
fees received from Shurgard  Europe during the year ended December 31, 2008 (our
pro-rata  share of such amounts  received are presented as equity in earnings of
real estate entities  rather than interest and other income).  Our future equity
income will be dependent upon the future operating results of Shurgard Europe.

     In the year ended  December 31, 2008,  we also  recognized  $17,859,000  in
interest  income on our note  receivable  from  Shurgard  Europe and $637,000 in
trademark license income, for periods following the  deconsolidation of Shurgard
Europe on March 31, 2008  through  December 31,  2008,  representing  51% of the
aggregate amounts paid to us by Shurgard Europe.  See Note 5 to our December 31,
2008  consolidated  financial  statements,  "Investment in Shurgard  Europe" for
further  analysis of the  presentation  of our equity  earnings and interest and
other income from Shurgard Europe.

     In evaluating the  operations of Shurgard  Europe,  management  reviews the
operating  results of 96  facilities,  all of which are wholly owned by Shurgard
Europe,  which have been operated on a stabilized basis by Shurgard Europe since
January 1, 2006.  The  operating  data  presented in the table below reflect the
historical  data through August 22, 2006, the period for which the 96 facilities
were  operated by Shurgard,  combined with the  historical  data from August 23,
2006 through March 31, 2008, the period operated under Public Storage,  and from
April 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008, the period operated by Shurgard Europe.
In addition,  the  operating  data  presented in the table below with respect to
these facilities is reflected  utilizing the average exchange rates for the year
ended  December 31, 2008 for the same periods in 2007 and 2006,  rather than the
respective  exchange  rates in effect for each  period.  We present this data on
such a "constant exchange rate" basis because we believe it allows comparability
of the various  periods,  and  isolates  the impact of  exchange  rates from the
underlying  trends in revenues  and cost of  operations.  As a result,  the data
presented below does not reflect the actual results  included in our operations,
or the  operations of Shurgard  Europe,  for the years ended  December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006.
                                       44
<PAGE>


[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_45_LINES]

</TABLE>

(a)  The majority of Shurgard Europe's  operations are denominated in Euros. For
     comparative  purposes,  amounts for 2006,  2007 and 2008 are  translated at
     constant  exchange rates  representing  the average  exchange rates for the
     year ended  December 31, 2008.  The average  exchange rate for the Euro was
     approximately  1.4698 during the year ended  December 31, 2008. The amounts
     that  are  included  in  our  December  31,  2008  consolidated   financial
     statements are based upon the actual exchange rate for each period.

(b)  Revenues  and cost of  operations  do not include  ancillary  revenues  and
     expenses generated at the facilities with respect to tenant reinsurance and
     retail sales.  "Other costs of  management"  included in cost of operations
     principally represents all the indirect costs incurred in the operations of
     the facilities.  Indirect costs principally  include  supervisory costs and
     corporate overhead cost incurred to support the operating activities of the
     facilities.

(c)  Net operating income (excluding  depreciation and amortization  expense) or
     "NOI" is a non-GAAP (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
     measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense.
     Although  depreciation and amortization are operating expenses,  we believe
     that NOI is a  meaningful  measure  of  operating  performance,  because we
     utilize NOI in making  decisions  with respect to capital  allocations,  in
     determining  current property values,  segment  performance,  and comparing
     period-to-period  and  market-to-market  property operating results. NOI is
     not  a  substitute  for  net  operating   income  after   depreciation  and
     amortization expense in evaluating our operating results.

(d)  Square foot occupancies  represent  weighted average  occupancy levels over
     the entire period.

(e)  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square foot is computed by  annualizing
     the result of  dividing  rental  income by the  weighted  average  occupied
     square  footage for the period.  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square
     foot takes into  consideration  promotional  discounts and other items that
     reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due.

(f)  Annualized  rental income per available  square foot ("REVPAF")  represents
     annualized  rental income  divided by total  available net rentable  square
     feet.
                                       45
<PAGE>

(g)  Late charges and  administrative  fees are excluded from the computation of
     realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF because  exclusion
     of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue,
     by  excluding  the   volatility  of  late  charges,   which  are  dependent
     principally upon the level of tenant delinquency,  and administrative fees,
     which are dependent  principally  upon the absolute level of move-ins for a
     period.

(h)  In place  annual  rent  per  occupied  square  foot  represents  annualized
     contractual   rents  per  occupied  square  foot  without   reductions  for
     promotional discounts, and excludes late charges and administrative fees.

     We have  recently  seen  softness in Shurgard  Europe's  operations,  as it
appears  to be  impacted  by the same  trends in  self-storage  demand  that our
domestic  facilities are facing,  but to a larger degree.  While  same-store NOI
growth was positive for the year ended December 31, 2008, occupancies as well as
rates  charged  to new  customers  are below that of 2007,  and NOI and  revenue
growth were negative in the fourth quarter of 2008. We expect continued declines
in  operating  results in 2009.  During  the last six  months of 2008,  Shurgard
Europe  terminated  plans  for  future   development  and  will  wind  down  its
development program as existing sites are completed in 2009.


     Other Investments
     -----------------

     The "Other Investments" at December 31, 2008 are comprised primarily of our
equity in earnings from entities that own 19  self-storage  facilities.  Amounts
included in the tables above also include our equity in earnings with respect to
three facilities  owned by the  Unconsolidated  Entities,  until we acquired the
remaining  interest we did not own in these entities  during 2008, and commenced
consolidating these facilities. Our future earnings with respect to the other 19
facilities  will be dependent upon the operating  results of the facilities that
these entities own. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2008  consolidated  financial
statements  for the operating  results of these 19  facilities  under the "Other
Investments."

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE ITEMS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     INTEREST AND OTHER  INCOME:  Interest and other income was  $36,155,000  in
2008,  $11,417,000  in 2007,  and  $31,799,000  in 2006. The increase in 2008 as
compared to 2007 is  principally as a result of (i) higher average cash balances
invested in interest  bearing  accounts and (ii) interest income with respect to
notes receivable from Shurgard Europe (described below).

     On March 31, 2008,  we  completed a  transaction  whereby an  institutional
investor  acquired a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe (see Note 3 to our December
31,  2008   consolidated   financial   statements).   In  connection  with  this
transaction,   we  received  net  proceeds   totaling   $609.1   million   which
significantly  increased our average cash on-hand and resulting  interest income
throughout  2008, as compared to 2007. We have $680.7 million in cash on hand at
December 31, 2008 invested  primarily in money-market  funds, which earn nominal
rates of interest in the current  interest  rate  environment.  Future  interest
income will  depend upon the level of interest  rates and the timing of when the
cash on hand is ultimately invested.

     In addition,  as part of the  transaction,  we also have a loan  receivable
from Shurgard  Europe totaling $552.4 million as of December 31, 2008 that bears
interest at the rate of 7.5% per annum.  Interest  income  with  respect to this
loan receivable was approximately $35.0 million in 2008, however,  for financial
reporting  purposes,  51% of this amount ($17.2 million) is included in interest
and other income and the remainder was recorded as additional equity in earnings
for the year ended December 31, 2008. The level of interest  income  recorded in
connection  with the loan receivable from Shurgard Europe will be dependent upon
the balances due from  Shurgard  Europe as well as the exchange rate of the Euro
versus the U.S. Dollar.

     Interest  and  other  income  has  decreased  in 2007 as  compared  to 2006
principally  as a result of lower cash  balances  invested in  interest  bearing
accounts, offset by slightly higher interest rates.

     DEPRECIATION AND  AMORTIZATION:  Depreciation and amortization  expense was
$414,188,000,  $622,400,000  and  $437,555,000  for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

     The decrease in depreciation and  amortization  expense in 2008 as compared
to the same period in 2007 is due principally to a decline of $196,686,000  from
$247,844,000 in 2007 to $51,158,000 in 2008 in tenant intangible amortization,

                                       46
<PAGE>


principally tenant intangibles acquired in the Shurgard Merger in 2006, that are
being amortized  relative to the expected future benefit of the tenants in place
to  each  period.  We  expect  minimal  amortization  expense  of  our  existing
intangibles in 2009, and future  intangible  amortization will be dependent upon
our future level of acquisition of facilities with existing tenants in place.

     Effective  March 31,  2008,  depreciation  and  amortization  ceased on the
facilities owned by Shurgard Europe,  which was  deconsolidated  effective March
31, 2008.  Included in our depreciation  and  amortization on Shurgard  Europe's
facilities  were  $21,871,000  for the three months  ended March 31,  2008.

     The increase in depreciation and  amortization  expense in 2007 as compared
to 2006 is also  due  primarily  to the  amortization  of  intangibles  acquired
primarily in the Shurgard Merger totaling  $247,844,000 in 2007 and $175,944,000
in 2006,  as well as  depreciation  of the  buildings  acquired in the  Shurgard
Merger, totaling approximately $142,800,000 in 2007 and $61,703,000 in 2006.

     GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE:  General and administrative expense was
$62,809,000, $59,749,000, and $84,661,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006  respectively.  General  and  administrative  expense  principally
consists of state income taxes,  investor relations expenses,  and corporate and
executive salaries.  In addition,  general and administrative  expenses includes
expenses that vary depending on our activity  levels in certain  areas,  such as
overhead  associated  with  the  acquisition  and  development  of  real  estate
facilities,   certain  expenses  related  to  capital  raising  and  merger  and
acquisition activities, litigation expenditures, employee severance, stock-based
compensation, and incentive compensation.

     General and  administrative  expense includes the following items that vary
depending upon our  activities:  a) costs and expenses  totaling  $5,300,000 and
$44,010,000, respectively, during 2007 and 2006, incurred in connection with the
integration of Shurgard and Public  Storage,  no such costs were incurred during
2008 b) $27,900,000 in additional incentive  compensation in 2008 related to the
disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, c) $9,600,000 in costs associated
with our  proposed  offering  of shares  in  Shurgard  Europe  during  2007,  d)
$2,000,000 in costs associated with reorganizing as a Maryland REIT during 2007,
and e) contract termination fees of $2,213,000 in 2006. Certain of these amounts
were  incurred by Shurgard  Europe and  included in our  consolidated  financial
statements.

     General and  administrative  expense  prior to March 31, 2008  includes the
ongoing  levels of general  and  administrative  expense  incurred  by  Shurgard
Europe. Following March 31, 2008 we record no further general and administrative
expense incurred by Shurgard Europe's operations.

     Restricted  stock  and  stock  option  expense  amounted  to  approximately
$12,591,000,  $8,511,000,  and $6,309,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.

     INTEREST  EXPENSE:  Interest  expense  was  $43,944,000,  $63,671,000,  and
$33,062,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,  respectively.
The  decrease  in  interest  expense in 2008 as  compared  to 2007 is due to the
deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe. The increases in interest expense in 2007 as
compared to 2006 are primarily due to $24,855,000  and  $58,656,000 for 2006 and
2007,  respectively,  in  interest  incurred  on the  notes  payable  and  other
obligations we assumed in the Shurgard  Merger.  See also Note 6 to our December
31, 2008 consolidated  financial  statements for a schedule of our notes payable
balances, principal repayment requirements, and average interest rates.

     Capitalized interest expense totaled $1,998,000, $4,746,000, and $2,716,000
for the  years  ended  December  31,  2008,  2007  and  2006,  respectively,  in
connection with our development activities.

     Included in our  consolidated  financial  statements  is  interest  expense
incurred by Shurgard  Europe of $6,597,000,  $22,242,000 and $13,109,000 for the
years  ended  December  31,  2008,  2007 and  2006,  respectively,  relative  to
third-party  debt  (excluding  the debt  payable  to Public  Storage).  Interest
expense  incurred by Shurgard Europe after March 31, 2008 is no longer reflected
in our financial statements.

                                       47
<PAGE>

     On February 12, 2009, in  connection  with a tender  offering,  we acquired
approximately  $110 million face amount of our senior  unsecured notes for cash.
This acquisition will reduce annualized  interest expense by approximately  $6.6
million.

     GAIN ON DISPOSITION OF AN INTEREST IN SHURGARD  EUROPE:  On March 31, 2008,
an institutional  investor acquired a 51% interest in Shurgard European Holdings
LLC, a newly formed Delaware limited  liability  company and the holding company
for Shurgard Europe ("Shurgard Holdings").  In connection with this transaction,
we recorded a gain on  disposition of  $344,685,000  for the year ended December
31, 2008.  Public  Storage owns the  remaining  49% interest and is the managing
member of Shurgard  Holdings.  See Note 3 to our December 31, 2008  consolidated
financial  statements for further  information  regarding this transaction.

     GAIN (LOSS) ON DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE  INVESTMENTS:  During 2008, 2007,
and 2006 we recorded gains on sale of assets,  principally partial condemnations
and other disposals of real estate facilities, totaling $1,283,000,  $1,354,000,
and $2,177,000  respectively.  During 2008, we recorded a loss on disposition of
an equity  investment in the Real Estate Entities  totaling  $9,423,000.  Future
gains or losses  will be  dependent  upon such  partial  condemnations,  and are
expected to be minimal.  In 2007,  we sold an  approximately  0.6% common equity
interest  in  Shurgard  Europe  to  various  officers  of the  Company  (the "PS
Officers"),  other than our chief executive  officer.  The aggregate sales price
was $4,909,000  and was based upon the pro rata net asset value computed  using,
among  other  sources,  information  provided  by  an  independent  third  party
appraisal  firm of the net asset value of Shurgard  Europe as of March 31, 2007.
In  connection  with the sale,  we recorded a gain of  $1,194,000  during  2007,
representing  the  excess  of the  sales  proceeds  over the  book  value of the
interests sold.

     CASUALTY GAIN OR LOSS: During 2008, we recorded casualty losses of $525,000
due to damage caused by hurricanes  comprised of $250,000 in impairment  charges
to our  facilities  and $275,000 in other  expenses.  During 2007, we recorded a
casualty gain totaling  $2,665,000,  representing  the realization of contingent
proceeds relating to hurricanes which occurred in 2005.

     FOREIGN  EXCHANGE  GAIN  (LOSS):  At  December  31,  2008,  we  had a  loan
receivable from Shurgard  Europe of  approximately  (euro)391.9  million ($552.4
million).  We expect Shurgard  Europe to repay the loan in the near term.  These
amounts are  denominated  in Euros but have not been hedged.  The amount of U.S.
Dollars that will be received on repayment  will depend upon the exchange  rates
at the time.  Based upon the change in  estimated  U.S.  Dollars to be  received
caused by fluctuation in currency rates during the year ended December 31, 2008,
we recorded foreign currency  translation losses of $25,362,000,  as compared to
foreign currency translation gains of $58,444,000, and $4,262,000, for the years
ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,  respectively.  The U.S.  Dollar exchange rate
relative to the Euro was approximately  1.409, 1.472, 1.319 at December 31 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.

     Future foreign  exchange  gains or losses will be dependent  primarily upon
the  movement  of the Euro  relative  to the U.S.  Dollar,  the amount owed from
Shurgard Europe and our continued expectation with respect to repaying the loan.
Based upon a closing  exchange rate of the U.S.  Dollar  relative to the Euro of
1.281 on February 26, 2009, we would record an additional  foreign exchange rate
loss totaling $50,163,000 thus far in the quarter ending March 31, 2009.

     MINORITY  INTEREST IN INCOME:  Minority  interest in income  represents the
income allocable to equity interests in the Consolidated Entities, which are not
owned by the Company. The following table summarizes minority interest in income
for each of the three years ended December 31, 2008:

                                       48
<PAGE>

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_16_LINES]

</TABLE>


(a)  These amounts reflect income allocated to minority  interests from entities
     we  acquired  in the  Shurgard  Merger.  These  interests  include  the 80%
     partner's  interests in the European  joint  ventures,  First  Shurgard and
     Second  Shurgard.  Included in minority  interest in income is  $3,184,000,
     $11,513,000  and  $3,013,000  in  depreciation  expense for the years ended
     December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

(b)  The other minority  interests include  depreciation  expense of $1,636,000,
     $2,545,000,  and $1,471,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
     2006, respectively.

     Future  minority  interest  after  March 31,  2008  will no longer  include
minority  interest for the European Joint Ventures,  because Shurgard Europe was
deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008.

     The level of income allocated to the Other Minority Interests in the future
is dependent  upon the operating  results of the storage  facilities  that these
entities own, as well as any minority interests that the Company acquires in the
future.  These  facilities are largely  stabilized  facilities,  and accordingly
growth should be relatively consistent with same-store growth.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_6_LINES]

requirements  and  distributions   requirements  to  our  shareholders  for  the
foreseeable future.

     Operating as a REIT,  our ability to retain cash flow for  reinvestment  is
restricted.  In order for us to maintain our REIT status, a substantial  portion
of  our  operating  cash  flow  must  be  used  to  make  distributions  to  our
shareholders (see "REQUIREMENT TO PAY DISTRIBUTIONS"  below).  However,  despite
the  significant  distribution  requirements,  we have  been  able to  retain  a
significant  amount of our operating cash flow. The following  table  summarizes
our  ability  to  fund   distributions  to  the  minority   interests,   capital
improvements to maintain our facilities,  and  distributions to our shareholders
through the use of cash provided by operating  activities.  The  remaining  cash
flow  generated  is  available to make both  scheduled  and  optional  principal
payments on debt and for reinvestment.

                                       49

<PAGE>



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_29_LINES]

</TABLE>

(a)  Represents net cash provided by operating  activities  for each  respective
     year as presented in our December 31, 2008 Consolidated  Statements of Cash
     Flows.

(b)  Cash  from  operations   available  for  principal  payments  on  debt  and
     reinvestment  is  not a  substitute  for  cash  flows  from  operations  in
     evaluating  our  liquidity,  ability  to  repay  our  debt,  or to meet our
     distribution requirements.

     Cash  from  operations   available  for  principal  payments  on  debt  and
reinvestment decreased from $338.7 million in 2007 to $227.6 million in 2008 due
primarily to a special distribution paid in 2008 totaling $101.0 million related
to our disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe.

     Other sources of liquidity and capital resources include  unrestricted cash
on hand at December 31, 2008 totaling $680.7 million,  a $300 million  revolving
line of credit  and a loan  receivable  from  Shurgard  Europe  totaling  $552.4
million that matures on March 31, 2010. The line of credit expires in March 2012
and there were no outstanding borrowings on the line of credit at
March 2, 2009.

     Significant  requirements on our liquidity and capital  resources  include:
(i)  capital   improvements  to  maintain  our  facilities,   (ii)  distribution
requirements  to our  shareholders  to  maintain  our REIT  status,  (iii)  debt
service,  (iv)  acquisition and  development  commitments and (v) commitments to
provide  funding  to  Shurgard  Europe  for  certain   investing  and  financing
activities.

     CAPITAL   IMPROVEMENT   REQUIREMENTS:   During  2009,   we  have   budgeted
approximately $79 million for capital  improvements for our facilities.  Capital
improvements include major repairs or replacements to the facilities, which keep
the  facilities in good  operating  condition and maintain  their visual appeal.
Capital  improvements  do not  include  costs  relating  to the  development  or
expansion of  facilities.  During the year ended  December 31, 2008, we incurred
capital improvements of approximately $76.3 million.

     REQUIREMENT TO PAY DISTRIBUTIONS:  We have operated, and intend to continue
to  operate,  in such a manner as to qualify  as a REIT  under the Code,  but no
assurance can be given that we will at all times so qualify.  To the extent that
the Company  continues to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed,  with certain
limited  exceptions,  on the REIT  taxable  income  that is  distributed  to our
shareholders, provided that at least 90% of our taxable income is so distributed
to our  shareholders.  We  believe  we  have  satisfied  the  REIT  distribution
requirement since 1981.

     Aggregate  dividends paid during 2008 totaled $239.7 million to the holders
of our Cumulative Preferred Shares,  $472.8 million to the holders of our common
shares and $21.2 million to the holders of our Equity Shares, Series A. Although

                                       50
<PAGE>

we have not finalized the  calculation  of our 2008 taxable  income,  we believe
that the  aggregate  dividends  paid in 2008 to our  shareholders  enable  us to
continue to meet our REIT distribution requirements.

     During 2008, we paid  distributions  totaling $21.6 million with respect to
our Preferred  Partnership  Units, and expect our 2009 distribution  requirement
based upon preferred  partnership  units outstanding at December 31, 2008, to be
approximately  $21.6  million.  In addition,  we estimate the 2009  distribution
requirements  with respect to our preferred  shares  outstanding at December 31,
2008, to be approximately $234.2 million, assuming no additional preferred share
issuances or redemptions during 2009.

     For  2009,  distributions  with  respect  to  the  common  shares  will  be
determined  based upon our REIT  distribution  requirements  after  taking  into
consideration  distributions to the preferred shareholders.  We anticipate that,
at a minimum,  quarterly  distributions  per common share for 2009 will be $0.55
per common  share.  For the first quarter of 2009, a quarterly  distribution  of
$0.55 per common share has been declared by our Board of Trustees.

     With  respect to the  depositary  shares  representing  the Equity  Shares,
Series A, we have no obligation to pay  distributions  if no  distributions  are
paid  to  the  common  shareholders.  To  the  extent  that  we  do  pay  common
distributions  in any year, the holders of the depositary  shares receive annual
distributions  equal to the lesser of (i) five times the per share  dividend  on
the common shares or (ii) $2.45. The depositary shares are  non-cumulative,  and
have  no  preference  over  our  Common  Shares  either  as to  dividends  or in
liquidation.

     DEBT SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:  At December 31, 2008, we have total outstanding
debt of  approximately  $643.8  million.  See Note 6 to our  December  31,  2008
consolidated  financial statements for approximate  principal maturities of such
borrowings.  It is our current  intention to fully amortize our outstanding debt
as opposed to refinance debt maturities with additional debt. Alternatively,  we
may prepay debt and finance such prepayments  with retained  operating cash flow
or proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities.

     Our portfolio of real estate facilities remains substantially unencumbered.
At December 31, 2008, we have secured debt outstanding of $236.4 million,  which
encumbers  90  self-storage  facilities  with an  aggregate  net  book  value of
approximately $579.5 million.

     On  February  12,  2009,  we  acquired  $110.2  million  face amount of our
existing  senior  unsecured notes pursuant to a tender offer for an aggregate of
$113.1 million,  plus accrued  interest,  reducing ongoing  annualized  interest
payments by approximately $8.3 million.  Approximately $96.7 million of the face
amount was scheduled to be repaid in 2011, and $13.5 million was scheduled to be
repaid in 2013.

     ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT OF FACILITIES: During 2009, we will continue to
seek to acquire additional self-storage facilities from third parties;  however,
it is  difficult  to  estimate  the amount of third party  acquisitions  we will
undertake.

     At December 31, 2008, we have a development  "pipeline" of five projects in
the U.S.  consisting  of expanding  or  repackaging  our  existing  self-storage
facilities.  The development and fill-up of these storage  facilities is subject
to contingencies.  We estimate that the amount remaining to be spent to complete
development to be approximately  $6.8 million and will be incurred over the next
year.

     EUROPEAN  ACTIVITIES:  Pursuant  to our  disposition  of a 51%  interest in
Shurgard  Europe  on  March  31,  2008  (see  Note 3 to our  December  31,  2008
consolidated financial  statements),  the loan owed by Shurgard Europe to Public
Storage was modified, principally to fix the interest rate to 7.5% per annum and
extend  the  maturity  date,  which is now March  31,  2010 as  Shurgard  Europe
extended the maturity  date from the original  date of March 31, 2009 as per the
terms of the loan. The note totaled approximately $552.4 million at December 31,
2008.

     In addition,  if Shurgard Europe acquires its partner's  interests in First
Shurgard and Second Shurgard,  joint ventures in which Shurgard Europe has a 20%
interest,  and is unable  to obtain  third-party  financing,  we have  agreed to
provide  additional  loans to  Shurgard  Europe,  under  the  same  terms as the
existing loans,  for up to (euro)305  million ($429.9 million as of December 31,

                                       51
<PAGE>

2008) for the  acquisition.  Shurgard  Europe has no obligation to acquire these
interests,  and the  acquisition of these interests is contingent on a number of
items,  including  whether  we  assent to the  acquisition.  In  February  2009,
Shurgard  Europe  exercised  their  option  to  extend  the  (euro)305   million
commitment  through  March  31,  2010.  As a result of this  extension,  we will
receive a fee of approximately  (euro)3.5 million from Shurgard Europe in March
2009.

     Shurgard  Europe has a 20%  interest  in two joint  ventures  and one other
partner  owns 80%  interest in each.  The two joint  ventures  collectively  had
approximately   (euro)250  million  ($355  million  at  December  31,  2008)  of
outstanding  debt  payable  to third  parties at  December  31,  2008,  which is
non-recourse to Shurgard  Europe.  One of the loans totaling  (euro)120  million
($170  million) is due May 2009 and the other loan  totaling  (euro)130  million
($185  million) is due in June 2009.  Shurgard  Europe is currently  negotiating
terms with the  respective  lenders to extend  the  maturities  out one to three
years. We expect Shurgard Europe to finalize these extensions within the next 90
days,  although there can be no assurance that such  extensions will actually be
completed.

     If Shurgard Europe was unable to extend the maturity dates of the loans, it
is our expectation that the loans would be repaid with each partner contributing
their pro rata share towards repayment. Shurgard Europe's pro rata share, in the
aggregate,  would be approximately (euro)50 million ($70 million) which Shurgard
Europe could  borrow from us pursuant to our loan  commitment  described  above.
Further,  it is also possible that Shurgard  Europe's joint venture partner will
be unable to  contribute  its pro rata  share to repay the loans and may want to
sell their interest. Shurgard Europe could borrow on the loan commitment we have
provided to consummate such a transaction and repay the loans.

     We  also  committed  to fund  up to  $88.2  million  of  additional  equity
contributions to Shurgard Europe to fund certain  investing  activities.  During
September 2008, we made an equity contribution of approximately $21.8 million to
Shurgard Europe,  reducing our remaining commitment to $66.4 million at December
31, 2008.

     We expect that Shurgard  Europe will repay the existing loan due to us (and
any additional  borrowings  pursuant to our  commitment) no later than March 31,
2010 or sooner if  capital  markets  become  accessible  to  Shurgard  Europe on
appropriate  terms.  Given the difficulty in the credit markets,  it is possible
that  Shurgard  Europe may not able to repay the loans prior to March 31,  2010.
Our business operations are not dependent on the repayment of such loans.

     ACCESS TO CAPITAL: Over the past several months,  accessing capital through
the equity or credit markets has become very difficult,  in part due to the lack
of liquidity,  particularly with respect to real estate companies.  As a result,
our  ability  to  raise  additional  capital  by  issuing  common  or  preferred
securities is not currently a viable option.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_8_LINES]

notwithstanding current market conditions are not favorable.

     Over  the  past  three  years,  we  have  funded  substantially  all of our
acquisitions with permanent capital (both common and preferred  securities).  We
have elected to use preferred  securities as a form of leverage despite the fact
that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market
interest rates on conventional debt. We have chosen this method of financing for
the following  reasons:  (i) under the REIT structure,  a significant  amount of
operating  cash flow  needs to be  distributed  to our  shareholders,  making it
difficult  to repay debt with  operating  cash flow  alone,  (ii) our  perpetual
preferred  shares have no sinking fund  requirement  or maturity date and do not
require  redemption,  all of which eliminate any future refinancing risks, (iii)
after the end of a non-call  period,  we have the option to redeem the preferred
shares at any time,  which enable us to refinance higher coupon preferred shares
with new preferred  shares at lower rates if appropriate,  (iv) preferred shares
do not contain  covenants,  thus allowing us to maintain  significant  financial
flexibility, and (v) dividends on the preferred shares can be applied to satisfy
our REIT distribution requirements.

                                       52
<PAGE>

     Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred  shares are "Baa1" by
Moody's and "BBB" by Standard & Poor's.

     ISSUANCE AND  REDEMPTION  OF  PREFERRED  SECURITIES:  One of our  financing
objectives  over the past  several  years has been to reduce our average cost of
capital with respect to our preferred securities.  Accordingly, we have redeemed
higher rate preferred  securities  outstanding  and have financed the redemption
with cash on-hand or from the proceeds from the issuance of lower rate preferred
securities.

     We believe  that our size and  financial  flexibility  enables us to access
capital when  appropriate  and when market  conditions are favorable.  Since the
beginning of 2005 through December 31, 2008, we have raised  approximately  $2.6
billion of preferred securities and used approximately $1.2 billion of these net
proceeds in order to redeem higher-coupon  preferred  securities.  Over the past
several  months,  accessing  capital  through the credit markets has become very
difficult, in part due to the lack of liquidity.

     At December  31, 2008,  our 7.500%  Series V  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares
($172.5  million),  our 6.500%  Series W  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  ($132.5
million) and our 6.450% Series X Cumulative  Preferred  Shares ($120.0  million)
were  redeemable  at our option;  however,  we have not called  these shares for
redemption.  In  addition,  in  January  2009 our  6.850%  Series  Y  Cumulative
Preferred  Shares  ($18.8  million),  March 2009 our 6.250%  Series Z Cumulative
Preferred Shares ($112.5  million) and our 6.125% Series A Cumulative  Preferred
Shares ($115.0 million),  in June 2009 our 7.125% Series B Cumulative  Preferred
Shares  ($108.8  million),  and in September 2009 our 6.600% Series C Cumulative
Preferred Shares ($115.0 million) become available for redemption at our option.
Although we may acquire these shares on the open market,  it is not advantageous
to redeem these shares at face  pursuant to our  redemption  option at this time
because,  based upon  current  market  conditions,  we cannot  issue  additional
preferred  securities at a lower coupon rate than the  securities  that would be
called. The timing of redemption of any of these series of preferred shares will
depend upon many factors including when, or if, market  conditions  improve such
that we can  issue new  preferred  shares at a lower  cost of  capital  than the
shares that would be redeemed.

     In the past we have typically raised  additional  capital in advance of the
redemption  dates  to  ensure  that we have  available  funds  to  redeem  these
securities.  Provided  market  conditions  improve in the  future,  we may raise
capital in advance to fund redemptions.

     REPURCHASES OF THE COMPANY'S EQUITY AND PREFERRED SECURITIES

     Dislocations  in  capital  markets  have  provided  opportunities  for  the
repurchase  of our preferred and debt  securities.  During 2008, we  repurchased
certain of our Cumulative Preferred Shares in privately negotiated  transactions
with a liquidation  value of $103.2  million for  approximately  $66.9  million,
including  accrued  dividends,  reducing  our ongoing  dividend  requirement  by
approximately  $7.1 million per year.  Also during 2008, we repurchased  367,000
shares of our Equity Shares,  Series A in privately negotiated  transactions for
approximately  $7.7  million,  reducing  our  ongoing  dividend  requirement  by
approximately $0.9 million per year.

     These  acquisitions  were  funded by us with cash on hand.  We  continue to
monitor the  existing  trading  ranges of our  existing  outstanding  Cumulative
Preferred  Shares  and  Equity  Shares,   Series  A  for  potential   repurchase
opportunities.

     Our Board of Trustees has authorized the repurchase from time to time of up
to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions.  On May 8, 2008,  the Board of Trustees  authorized an increase in
the total repurchase  authorization  from 25,000,000 common shares to 35,000,000
common shares.  During 2006 and 2007, we did not  repurchase any shares.  During
2008, we repurchased 1,520,196 shares for approximately $111.9 million. From the
inception of the repurchase program through March 2, 2009, we have repurchased a
total of 23,721,916  common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately  $679.1
million.  Future  levels  of  common  repurchases  will be  dependent  upon  our
available capital, investment alternatives,  and the trading price of our common
shares.

     On February  12,  2009,  we  completed  a fixed price cash tender  offer to
acquire any and all of our  Unsecured  Notes  Payable.  A total of $96.7 million
face  amount of our 7.75%  Notes due 2011 and $13.5  million  face amount of our

                                       53
<PAGE>

5.875% Notes due 2013,  for an aggregate of $113.1  million in cash plus accrued
interest were acquired.

     On February 27,  2009,  we reached an agreement in principle to acquire all
of our  affiliate's  6.40% Series NN preferred  partnership  units ($200 million
carrying  amount)  for  approximately  $130  million,  plus  accrued  and unpaid
distributions  from December 31, 2008 through the closing date. This transaction
is expected to result in an increase in income allocated to common  shareholders
of approximately $70 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 based upon the
excess of the carrying  amount over the amount paid.  The purchase is subject to
negotiation and completion of a binding agreement, and there can be no assurance
that the transaction will be completed or the timing thereof,  or that the terms
of any  transaction  completed  will not vary  materially  from those  currently
agreed.

     Also on February 27, 2009,  we reached an agreement in principle to acquire
all of our affiliate's  6.25% Series Z preferred  partnership units ($25 million
carrying  amount) for $25 million.  This should  result in no increase in income
allocated  to the common  shareholders  as they are being  acquired  at par.  As
described in Note 7 to our December 31, 2008 consolidated  financial statements,
the holders of the Series Z preferred  partnership  units have a one-time option
exercisable  on  October  12,  2009 to  require  us to  redeem  their  units for
$25,000,000 in cash, plus any unpaid  distributions.  The purchase is subject to
negotiation and completion of a binding agreement, and there can be no assurance
that the transaction will be completed or the timing thereof,  or that the terms
of any  transaction  completed  will not vary  materially  from those  currently
agreed.

                                       54

<PAGE>


CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS


     Our  significant  contractual  obligations  at December  31, 2008 and their
impact on our cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending
December 31 (amounts in thousands):
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_15_LINES]

</TABLE>

(1)  Amounts  include  interest  payments  on our notes  payable  based on their
     contractual  terms.  See  Note  6 to our  December  31,  2008  consolidated
     financial  statements  for  additional  information  on our notes  payable.
     Approximately $96.7 million of the amounts otherwise due in 2011, and $13.5
     million of the amounts  otherwise due in 2013,  included in the table above
     were repaid in connection with a tender offer on February 12, 2009.

(2)  We lease trucks,  land,  equipment and office space under various operating
     leases. Certain leases are cancelable with substantial penalties.

(3)  Includes   obligations  for  facilities  currently  under  construction  at
     December 31, 2008 as described above under  "Acquisition and Development of
     Facilities."

     We have not included any  additional  funding  requirements  that we may be
required make to Shurgard Europe as a contractual obligation in the table above,
since it is uncertain  whether or not we will be required to fund any additional
amounts and because such funding is subject to our assent.

     OFF-BALANCE  SHEET  ARRANGEMENTS:  At December  31, 2008 we had no material
off-balance sheet arrangements as defined under Regulation S-K 303(a)(4) and the
instructions thereto.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK