ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_4_LINES]


     This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking  statements within
the meaning of the federal  securities  laws.  All  statements in this document,
other than statements of historical fact, are  forward-looking  statements which
may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes,"  "anticipates,"
"plans," "would,"  "should," "may," "estimates" and similar  expressions.  These
forward-looking  statements  involve known and unknown risks and  uncertainties,
which may cause Public Storage's actual results and performance to be materially
different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking  statements. As
a result, you should not rely on any forward-looking  statements in this report,
or  which  management  may make  orally  or in  writing  from  time to time,  as
predictions  of future events nor guarantees of future  performance.  We caution
you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements,  which speak only
as the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the  statements.  All
of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified
in their  entirety by this  statement.  We expressly  disclaim any obligation to
update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result  of  new  information,   new  estimates,  or  other  factors,  events  or
circumstances  after the date of this document,  except where expressly required
by law.  Accordingly,  you should use caution in relying on past forward-looking
statements to anticipate  future results.  Factors and risks that may impact our
future results and performance  include, but are not limited to, those described
in Item 1A, "Risk  Factors" and in our other  filings  with the  Securities  and
Exchange Commission. ("SEC").

GENERAL
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_6_LINES]

development,  ownership and  operation of  self-storage  facilities  which offer
storage spaces for lease,  generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and
business use. We are the largest owner and operator of  self-storage  facilities
in the United States ("U.S."), and we have an equity interest in what we believe
is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Europe.

     We currently  operate within three reportable  segments:  (i) self-storage,
(ii) Shurgard Europe and (iii) ancillary. These segments are organized generally
based upon their operating  characteristics.  The self-storage segment comprises
the direct and indirect  ownership,  development,  and operation of  traditional
storage  facilities in the U.S. Our Shurgard Europe segment comprises our equity
interest in the  self-storage  and associated  activities in seven  countries in
Western  Europe owned by Shurgard  Europe,  consisting of 180 facilities and 9.5
million net rentable  square feet. Our ancillary  segment  represents all of our
other activities, which are reported as a group, including our (i) containerized
storage operations,  (ii) commercial property  operations,  directly and through
our 46% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. ("PSB"), a publicly traded
REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock  Exchange  under the symbol
"PSB" (as of December 31, 2008, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million net rentable
square feet of  commercial  space),  (iii) tenant  reinsurance  operations  (the
reinsurance  of  policies  against  losses  to goods  stored by  tenants  in our
self-storage  facilities),  (iv) retail operations conducted at our self-storage
facilities including  merchandise sales and truck rentals, and (v) management of
self-storage  facilities  owned by  third-party  owners and domestic  facilities
owned by the  Unconsolidated  Entities.  See Note 11 to our  December  31,  2008
consolidated  financial  statements for further  discussion  with respect to our
segments.

                                       3
<PAGE>

     We significantly  increased the scope and scale of our operations on August
22, 2006, when we merged with Shurgard Storage Centers, Inc. ("Shurgard" and the
merger  referred to as the "Shurgard  Merger"),  a REIT which had an interest in
487  self-storage  facilities  located in the U.S.  and an  interest in Shurgard
Europe's 160 facilities.  On March 31, 2008, we entered into a transaction  with
an  institutional   investor  (the  transaction   referred  to  as  the  "Europe
Transaction")  whereby  the  investor  acquired  a 51%  equity  interest  in our
European operations ("Shurgard Europe").  Shurgard Europe held substantially all
of our  operations  in Europe.  Since March 31, 2008,  we own the  remaining 49%
interest and are the managing  member of Shurgard  European  Holdings LLC, a new
joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe's operations.

     At December 31, 2008, we had direct and indirect equity  interests in 2,012
self-storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the
"Public  Storage" brand name containing  approximately  127 million net rentable
square feet of space,  and 181 self-storage  facilities  located in Europe which
operate under the "Shurgard Storage Centers" brand name containing approximately
ten million net rentable  square feet of space. We also have direct and indirect
equity  interests  in  approximately  21 million  net  rentable  square  feet of
commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S.  primarily  operated under the
"PS Business Parks" brand name.

     For all  taxable  years  subsequent  to 1980,  we  qualified  and intend to
continue to qualify as a real estate  investment  trust ("REIT"),  as defined in
Section 856 of the Internal  Revenue Code. As a REIT, we do not incur federal or
significant state tax on that portion of our taxable income which is distributed
to our shareholders,  provided that we meet certain tests. To the extent that we
continue  to qualify as a REIT,  we will not be  subject  to tax,  with  certain
limited   exceptions,   on  the  taxable  income  that  is  distributed  to  our
shareholders.

     We have reported annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial
statements certified by our independent  registered public accountants.  We have
also  reported  quarterly  to the SEC on Form  10-Q,  which  includes  unaudited
financial statements with such filings. We expect to continue such reporting.

     Our website is located at  www.publicstorage.com,  where we make available,
free of charge our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
and current  reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed
with or furnished to the SEC.

THE IMPACT OF CURRENT ECONOMIC FACTORS
- --------------------------------------

     The recession being experienced in the U.S. and Europe is having a negative
impact  upon our  business,  and we have  responded  with  what we  believe  are
short-term revisions to our long-term growth strategies.

     Operationally, our occupancies and rental rates have come under pressure as
demand for self-storage space has softened. We have responded by reducing rental
rates, increasing promotional discounts, and increasing our marketing activities
to stimulate additional demand for storage.

     We have essentially shut down our development activities,  both in the U.S.
and Europe due to the risk inherent in  development,  uncertain  consumer demand
for when such facilities open for operation,  and to preserve  capital.  We have
increased our yield  requirements  with respect to the  acquisition  of existing
self-storage  facilities,  in the  expectation  that more  distressed  sales may
become  available.  We have taken advantage of capital market  dislocations with
respect to our own securities through the repurchase of our own preferred shares
and our unsecured debt. Although capital markets are constrained and in flux, we
believe that we are well-positioned with significant cash balances on hand, have
an expectation of continued  internally generated cash flow that can be used for
reinvestment,  and  relatively  modest debt  maturities  as described in Item 7.
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." Current capital market conditions
have essentially precluded us from issuing preferred securities since late 2007,
which has been our traditional source of external capital for growth.

                                       4
<PAGE>

     While we believe  that these  actions are the  appropriate  response to the
existing  economic  environment,  and that they will  best  position  us to take
advantage  of the  current  environment  in the  short-term  and then resume our
traditional  growth  strategy in the future,  there can be no assurance  that we
will be able to do so.

     See "GROWTH AND  INVESTMENT  STRATEGIES"  and  "FINANCING  OF THE COMPANY'S
GROWTH  STRATEGIES"  below  for  more  information   regarding  our  traditional
long-term strategy to grow the cash flows and equity values of the Company.

COMPETITION
- -----------

     Self-storage  generally  draws  customers from residents  within a three to
five mile radius.  Many of our facilities  operate within three to five miles of
well-located and  well-managed  competitors and seek the same group of customers
through  many of the same  marketing  channels  we use,  including  yellow  page
advertising,  Internet advertising, as well as signage and banners. As a result,
competition  is  significant  and affects the  occupancy  levels,  rental rates,
rental income and operating expenses of our facilities.

     While  competition  is  significant,   the  self-storage  industry  remains
fragmented in the U.S. We believe that we own  approximately 6% of the aggregate
self-storage square footage in the U.S., and that the five largest  self-storage
operators in the U.S. own only 11% of the  aggregate  self-storage  space in the
U.S.,  with the  remaining  89% owned by  numerous  private  regional  and local
operators.  This market fragmentation enhances the advantage of our economies of
scale  relative to other  operators  (see  "Business  Attributes  - Economies of
Scale"  below),  and could  result in potential  growth in our platform  through
acquisitions over the long term.

     In seeking investments,  we compete with a wide variety of institutions and
other  investors.  The amount of funds  available  for real  estate  investments
greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by
extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments.

BUSINESS ATTRIBUTES
- -------------------

     We believe that we possess several primary business  attributes that permit
us to compete effectively:

     CENTRALIZED  INFORMATION NETWORKS: Our facilities are part of comprehensive
centralized  reporting and information networks which enable the management team
to identify  changing market  conditions and operating trends as well as analyze
customer data, and quickly change our properties' pricing and promotional mix on
an automated basis.

     NATIONAL TELEPHONE  RESERVATION CENTER: We operate a centralized  telephone
reservation system,  which provides added customer service and helps to maximize
utilization  of  available  self-storage  space.  Customers  calling  either the
toll-free telephone referral system, (800) 44-STORE, or a storage facility,  are
directed to the national reservation system. A representative discusses with the
customer space requirements, price and location preferences and also informs the
customer  of  other  products  and  services  provided  by the  Company  and its
subsidiaries.  We believe  that the  centralized  telephone  reservation  system
enhances our ability to market  storage  space in the U.S.  relative to handling
these calls at individual  properties,  because it allows us to more effectively
offer all spaces at all  facilities in the vicinity of a customer and to provide
higher-quality  selling efforts through dedicated sales specialists trained in a
central  location.  We also provide  customers the  opportunity  to review space
availability    and   make    reservations    online    through   our   website,
www.publicstorage.com.

     ECONOMIES OF SCALE: We are the largest  provider of  self-storage  space in
the U.S. As of December 31, 2008, we operated 2,012  self-storage  facilities in
which we had an  interest  and  managed  32  self-storage  facilities  for third
parties.  These  facilities  are generally  located in major  markets  within 38
states in the U.S. At December  31, 2008,  we had over one million  self-storage
spaces rented.  The size and scope of our operations  have enabled us to achieve
high  operating  margins  and a low level of  administrative  costs  relative to
revenues, through the centralization of many functions with specialists, such as
facility maintenance,  employee  compensation and benefits programs,  pricing of
our  product,  as well as the  development  and  documentation  of  standardized

                                       5
<PAGE>

operating  procedures.  We also  believe  that our  major  market  concentration
provides  managerial  efficiencies  stemming  from  having  a  large  number  of
facilities in close proximity to each other.

     We can economically purchase large, prominent,  well-placed yellow page ads
that allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller operators.  We
are also able to purchase and bid aggressively for multiple-keyword  advertising
on  national  Internet  search  engines.  In  addition,  we are  able to  market
efficiently  using television as a media source. We believe that our competitors
cannot use television  advertising,  and cannot spend as  aggressively on yellow
page ads and internet search strategies,  because their limited concentration of
facilities does not provide a sufficient  potential customer base to justify the
high cost of such efforts.

     BRAND NAME RECOGNITION:  Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the
"Public  Storage"  brand  name,  which we  believe  is the most  recognized  and
established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S. Our storage operations
within the U.S. are conducted in major markets in 38 states,  giving us national
recognition  and  prominence.  Our  facilities  tend to be in highly visible and
heavily populated areas, improving the local awareness of our brand.

     COMPLEMENTARY ANCILLARY OPERATIONS:  Through a taxable REIT subsidiary,  we
sell  retail  items  associated  with the storage  business,  rent trucks at our
self-storage  facilities,  and reinsure  policies  issued to our tenants against
lost or damaged  goods stored by tenants in our storage  facilities.  We believe
these activities supplement and strengthen our existing self-storage business by
further meeting the needs of storage customers.

GROWTH AND INVESTMENT STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------

     As described more  specifically in "THE IMPACT OF CURRENT ECONOMIC FACTORS"
above,  our growth  strategies  have been revised in the short-run to respond to
current market conditions.

     Over the long run, our growth  strategies  have consisted of: (i) improving
the  operating  performance  of  our  existing  self-storage  properties,   (ii)
acquiring  properties  that are owned or operated  by others in the U.S.,  (iii)
developing  existing  U.S. real estate  facilities,  (iv)  participating  in the
growth of commercial  facilities owned primarily by PSB, and (v) capitalizing on
the potential growth in the European market. In addition to certain revisions to
these strategies described below, our strategy has been revised in the short-run
to take advantage of dislocation in current capital markets.

     IMPROVE THE OPERATING  PERFORMANCE  OF EXISTING  PROPERTIES:  As previously
noted,  demand for our self-storage  facilities has been negatively  impacted by
the current recession in the short run, and revenue and net operating income are
under  pressure.  Over  the  long  run we seek to  increase  the net  cash  flow
generated by our existing self-storage properties by a) regularly evaluating our
call volume,  reservation activity,  and move-in/move-out  rates for each of our
properties relative to our marketing activities, b) evaluating market supply and
demand  factors  and,  based  upon  these  analyses,   adjusting  our  marketing
activities  and  rental  rates,  c)  attempting  to  maximize  revenues  through
evaluating  the  appropriate  balance  between  occupancy,   rental  rates,  and
promotional  discounting and d) controlling  expense levels. We believe that our
property management personnel and systems,  combined with our national telephone
reservation  system and media advertising  programs will continue to enhance our
ability to meet these goals.  See  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis" below
for further information  regarding our expectation in the short-run with respect
to our operating results.

     ACQUIRE PROPERTIES OWNED OR OPERATED BY OTHERS IN THE U.S.: We believe that
recent  dislocations in the financial markets may provide more opportunities for
the acquisition of facilities from distressed sellers who cannot refinance their
existing  debt as it comes due,  and who face  reduced cash flows as a result of
the current difficult operating  environment and reduced self-storage demand. We
believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major markets
in  the  U.S.   enhances   our  ability  to  identify   attractive   acquisition
opportunities  and capitalize on the overall  fragmentation  in the self-storage
industry.  Data  on the  rental  rates  and  occupancy  levels  of our  existing
facilities,  which are often  located  in  proximity  to  potential  acquisition
candidates,  provide us an advantage in evaluating  the potential of acquisition
opportunities.

                                       6
<PAGE>

     DEVELOPMENT  OF  REAL  ESTATE  FACILITIES:  Notwithstanding  the  long-term
opportunity  in the  development  of new  facilities  and the  expansion  of our
existing facilities,  we have substantially  reduced our development pipeline at
December  31,  2008  in  light  of  current  capital  market  conditions  and in
evaluating  demand for new  self-storage  space,  to five  projects to expand or
repackage  our  existing  facilities  in the  U.S.,  for an  aggregate  cost  of
approximately  $27.1  million,  which  will add an  aggregate  of  approximately
189,000  net  rentable  square  feet.  In the  short-term  we do not  expect any
significant new investment in such development  activities.  Shurgard Europe has
similarly  reduced its development  activities (see "Capitalize on the Potential
for Growth in Europe" below).

     We have a substantial  number of facilities in the U.S. that were developed
and  constructed  20  or  more  years  ago  based  upon  local  competitive  and
demographic  conditions  in place at that time.  Population  densities and other
such conditions may have changed since then,  providing  opportunities to expand
and further invest into our existing self-storage locations, either by improving
the quality of the existing units by adding  amenities such as climate  control,
or by  expanding  these  facilities  at a per square foot cost that is typically
less than the cost incurred in developing a new location.  Historically, we have
also allocated a material  portion of our  investment to the  development of new
self-storage locations.

     PARTICIPATE IN THE GROWTH OF COMMERCIAL  FACILITIES  PRIMARILY  THROUGH OUR
OWNERSHIP IN PS BUSINESS PARKS,  INC.: At December 31, 2008, we had a 46% common
equity  interest  in PSB  and  its  operating  partnership  which  consisted  of
5,418,273 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited  partnership units in the
Operating  Partnership.  The limited  partnership  units are  convertible at our
option,  subject to certain  conditions,  on a one-for-one basis into PSB common
stock. At December 31, 2008, PSB owned and operated  approximately  19.6 million
net rentable  square feet of  commercial  space  located in the U.S.  located in
eight states. During 2008, the recession in the U.S. impacted PSB resulting in a
decrease in new rental rates over expiring rents, as well as declining occupancy
levels in the last six months of 2008.  It is uncertain  what impact the current
recession will have on PSB's ability to maintain  current  occupancy  levels and
rental rents. PSB may continue to experience  downward pressure on its occupancy
levels and rental rates.

     CAPITALIZE  ON THE  POTENTIAL  FOR GROWTH IN EUROPE:  On March 31, 2008, we
entered into a  transaction  with an  institutional  investor  (the  transaction
referred to as the "Europe  Transaction")  whereby the  investor  acquired a 51%
interest in our European operations  ("Shurgard  Europe").  Shurgard Europe held
substantially all of our operations in Europe.  Since March 31, 2008, we own the
remaining 49% interest and are the managing member of Shurgard European Holdings
LLC, a new joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe's operations.

     Although  many  European  consumers  are not yet aware of the  self-storage
concept,  they tend to live in more densely  populated  areas in smaller  living
spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe,  should make  self-storage an
attractive  option as product  knowledge and availability  grows. Most Europeans
are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary  service  provided
by moving companies, and more consumer familiarity could result in a significant
increase in demand in the long-term.

     In the  longer  term,  as a result of the low  density of  self-storage  in
Europe  relative to population as compared to the U.S., we believe that there is
significant  growth potential in Europe,  even if the density of self-storage in
Europe does not ultimately  approach the levels in the U.S. However,  ultimately
capitalizing on this opportunity will require a significant amount of capital to
develop new self-storage facilities in what could be a process extending through
a few decades in time frame, similar to the trajectory of the U.S.  self-storage
industry since its inception in the mid 1960's.

     Shurgard Europe, and its ability and wherewithal to take advantage of these
opportunities,  has  been  impacted  by  the  same  economic  trends  that  have
negatively impacted our domestic self-storage operations and capital markets. In
addition to the  operating  uncertainties  that we face,  Shurgard  Europe faces
refinancing  risk,  as  approximately  (euro)250  million  of debt owed by joint
ventures matures in the first half of 2009 and approximately $552.4 million in a
loan payable to us becomes due in March 2010.  Accordingly,  Shurgard Europe has
taken  many of the same  steps  that we have  domestically,  by  curtailing  its
development  activities.  At such time that public  market  capital or bank debt
becomes available to Shurgard Europe to refinance its existing debt, development
and growth may recommence.

                                       7
<PAGE>

     TAKE ADVANTAGE OF DISLOCATION IN CAPITAL MARKETS:  At December 31, 2008, we
have  cash  balances  on  hand  of  approximately  $680.7  million.  Due  to the
aforementioned turbulent credit and equity markets, we believe that there may be
opportunities  for  the  acquisition  of our own  outstanding  debt  and  equity
securities.  During  November and December 2008, we  repurchased  $103.2 million
(liquidation  value) of our  preferred  securities,  for an  aggregate  of $66.9
million,  and 367,000  shares of our Equity Shares,  Series A for  approximately
$7.7 million.  On February 12, 2009, in accordance  with an "any and all" tender
offer,  we acquired  $110.2 million (face amount) of our Senior  Unsecured Debt.
Any future such  transactions  will depend upon our  evaluation of the return of
such investments relative to our other investment alternatives.  There can be no
assurance that any future such transactions will occur.

FINANCING OF THE COMPANY'S GROWTH STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------------------

     IMPACT OF CURRENT  CAPITAL  MARKETS:  As described  above in "The Impact of
Current Economic Factors",  one of our traditional  sources of external capital,
the issuance of preferred securities,  has not been available to us for issuance
since  late  2007.  While we expect  this  source to be  available  to us in the
long-run,  there can be no  assurance  as to when such  source of  capital  will
become available to us again.

     OVERVIEW OF  FINANCING  STRATEGY:  Over the past three years we have funded
substantially all the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities
with permanent  capital  (predominantly  retained cash flow and the net proceeds
from the issuance of  preferred  securities).  We have elected to use  preferred
securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our
preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional
debt,  because of certain  benefits  described in  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity  and Capital
Resources." Our present  intention is to continue to finance  substantially  all
our growth with  permanent  capital.  Presently as a result of the disruption in
the capital markets, we believe our ability to raise additional capital,  either
through the issuance of preferred or common  securities,  has been significantly
impaired.   Accordingly,  until  such  time  that  the  capital  markets  become
favorable,  our strategy is to finance our activities with internally  generated
cash flows,  cash on-hand ($680.7 million at December 31, 2008) , and borrowings
on our revolving line of credit.

     BORROWING:  We have in the past  used our $300  million  revolving  line of
credit described below under "Borrowings" as temporary "bridge"  financing,  and
repaid those amounts with  permanent  capital.  Our debt  outstanding  currently
represents debt that was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions
or in connection with the Shurgard Merger. When we have assumed such debt in the
past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of
the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made
it economically disadvantageous to prepay. While it is not our present intention
to issue additional debt as a long-term financing strategy, we have broad powers
to borrow in furtherance of our objectives  without a vote of our  shareholders.
These powers are subject to a limitation  on unsecured  borrowings in our Bylaws
described in "Limitations on Borrowings" below.

     ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES  IN EXCHANGE FOR  PROPERTY:  We have issued both our
common  and  preferred   securities  in  exchange  for  real  estate  and  other
investments  in the last three years,  most  notably the issuance of  38,913,187
common shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger in 2006.  Future  issuances
will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market  conditions at the
time, including the market prices of our equity securities.

     JOINT  VENTURE  FINANCING:   We  have  historically  formed  and  may  form
additional  joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future  developments  or
acquisitions.

     DISPOSITION OF PROPERTIES:  We  historically  have disposed of self-storage
facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell. We
do  not  presently  intend  to  sell  any  significant  number  of  self-storage
facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not.

                                       8
<PAGE>

INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE AND REAL ESTATE ENTITIES
- ---------------------------------------------------

     INVESTMENT   POLICIES  AND  PRACTICES  WITH  RESPECT  TO  OUR  INVESTMENTS:
Following  are our  investment  practices and policies  which,  though we do not
anticipate any significant  alteration,  can be changed by our Board of Trustees
without a shareholder vote:

o    Our  investments  primarily  consist of direct  ownership  of  self-storage
     properties (the nature of our self-storage  properties is described in Item
     2,  "Properties"),  as well as  partial  interests  in  entities  that  own
     self-storage properties.

o    Our  partial  ownership  interests  primarily  reflect  general and limited
     partnership interests in entities that own self-storage facilities that are
     managed by us under the "Public Storage" brand name in the U.S., as well as
     storage  facilities  managed in Europe under the "Shurgard Storage Centers"
     brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe.

o    Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of
     properties  from third  parties) will include  common  equity  interests in
     entities in which we already have an interest.

o    To a lesser  extent,  we have interests in existing  commercial  properties
     (described in Item 2, "Properties"),  containing  commercial and industrial
     rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.

FACILITIES OWNED BY CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
- -----------------------------------------

     In addition to our direct ownership of 1,523 self-storage facilities in the
U.S. and one self-storage facility in London,  England at December 31, 2008 with
an  aggregate of  approximately  98 million net  rentable  square feet,  we have
controlling indirect interests in entities that own 470 self-storage  facilities
in the U.S. with  approximately 28 million net rentable square feet. In addition
to our self-storage  space, we own approximately 1.5 million net rentable square
feet of  commercial  space  located  adjacent  to  certain  of our  self-storage
facilities.  Because of our controlling  interest in each of these entities,  we
consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities
in our financial statements.

FACILITIES OWNED BY UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
- -------------------------------------------

     At December 31, 2008,  we had  ownership  interests in a) PSB,  which owned
approximately  19.6  million net  rentable  square feet of  commercial  space at
December 31, 2008,  b) Shurgard  Europe,  which had  ownership  interests in 180
facilities,  and c)  certain  limited  partnerships  owning an  aggregate  of 19
self-storage  facilities.  Collectively  these  entities  are referred to as the
"Unconsolidated Entities."

     PSB, which files financial  statements  with the SEC, and Shurgard  Europe,
have  debt and  other  obligations  that are not  included  in our  consolidated
financial  statements.  The  limited  partnerships  owning  the 19  self-storage
facilities have no significant amounts of debt or other obligations.  See Note 5
to  our  December  31,  2008  consolidated   financial  statements  for  further
disclosure  regarding  the  assets,  liabilities  and  operating  results of the
Unconsolidated Entities.

LIMITATIONS ON DEBT
- -------------------

     Without the consent of holders of the  various  series of Senior  Preferred
Shares,  we may not take any action  that  would  result in a ratio of "Debt" to
"Assets" (the "Debt Ratio") in excess of 50%. As of December 31, 2008,  the Debt
Ratio was approximately  5.2%. "Debt" means the liabilities (other than "accrued
and other liabilities" and "minority  interest") that should, in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,  be reflected on our consolidated
balance  sheet at the time of  determination.  "Assets"  means our total  assets
before a reduction for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in
accordance with generally accepted  accounting  principles,  be reflected on the
consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination.

                                       9
<PAGE>

     Our bank and senior  unsecured debt agreements  contain  various  customary
financial covenants,  including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the
prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of
default.

EMPLOYEES
- ---------

     We have approximately  5,200 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2008 who
render  services  on behalf  of the  Company,  primarily  personnel  engaged  in
property  operations.  None  of our  employees  in the  U.S.  are  covered  by a
collective  bargaining  agreement.  We  believe  that  our  relations  with  our
employees are generally amicable.

INSURANCE
- ---------

     We  have  historically  carried  customary  property,  earthquake,  general
liability and workers compensation coverage through  internationally  recognized
insurance  carriers,  subject to customary levels of deductibles.  The aggregate
limits on these  policies of $75 million for property  coverage and $102 million
for general  liability are higher than  estimates of maximum  probable loss that
could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering
and actuarial studies;  however, in case of multiple  catastrophic events, these
limits could be exhausted.

     Our tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to
certificate  holders  against  claims for property  losses due to specific named
perils  (earthquakes  and floods are not  covered  by these  policies)  to goods
stored by tenants at our self-storage  facilities for individual  limits up to a
maximum  of $5,000.  We have  third-party  insurance  coverage  for claims  paid
exceeding  $1,000,000  resulting  from any one individual  event,  to a limit of
$25,000,000.  At December 31, 2008, there were approximately 548,000 certificate
holders  participating  in  this  program  in the  U.S.  representing  aggregate
coverage of  approximately  $1.2  billion.  We rely on a  third-party  insurance
company to provide the insurance and are subject to licensing  requirements  and
regulations in several states.  No assurance can be given that this activity can
continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction.

ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS