Item 1. Business

Regions Financial Corporation is a financial holding company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama, which operates in the South, Midwest and Texas. The terms "Regions," "the Company," "we," "us" and "our" mean Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation and its subsidiaries, when appropriate. Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of asset management, wealth management, securities brokerage, insurance, trust services, and other specialty financing. At December 31, 2014, Regions had total consolidated assets of approximately $119.7 billion, total consolidated deposits of approximately $94.2 billion and total consolidated stockholders’ equity of approximately $17.0 billion.

Regions is a Delaware corporation and on July 1, 2004, became the successor by merger to Union Planters Corporation and the former Regions Financial Corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203, and its telephone number at that address is (800) 734-4667.

Banking Operations

Regions conducts its banking operations through Regions Bank, an Alabama state-chartered commercial bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2014, Regions operated 1,997 ATMs and 1,666 banking offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.

The following chart reflects the distribution of branch locations in each of the states in which Regions conducts its banking operations.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Financial Services Operations

In addition to its banking operations, Regions provides additional financial services through the following subsidiaries:

Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, is an insurance broker that offers insurance products through its subsidiaries: Regions Insurance, Inc., headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama, and Regions Insurance Services, Inc., headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. Through its insurance brokerage operations in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas, Regions Insurance, Inc. offers insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, vehicle, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. Regions Insurance, Inc. also provides services related to employee benefits. Regions Insurance Services, Inc. offers various insurance products, such as mortgage life and disability, crop, life, accidental death and dismemberment, and environmental insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Regions Insurance Group, Inc. is one of the thirty largest insurance brokers in the United States based on annual revenues.

5

Table of Contents 

Regions has several subsidiaries and affiliates that are agents or reinsurers of debt cancellation products and credit life insurance products relating to the activities of certain affiliates of Regions Bank.

Regions Equipment Finance Corporation and Regions Commercial Equipment Finance, LLC provide equipment financing products, focusing on commercial clients.

Regions Investment Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank, offers investments and insurance products to Regions Bank customers, provided by licensed insurance agents. In addition, Regions Bank and Regions Investment Services, Inc. also maintain an agreement with Cetera Investment Services, LLC to offer securities, insurance, and advisory services to Regions Bank customers through dually employed financial consultants.

Regions Securities LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. Regions Securities LLC serves as a broker-dealer to commercial clients and acts in an advisory capacity to merger and acquisition transactions.

Acquisition Program

A substantial portion of the growth of Regions from its inception as a bank holding company in 1971 has been through the acquisition of other financial institutions, including commercial banks and thrift institutions, and the assets and deposits of those financial institutions. As part of its ongoing strategic plan, Regions periodically evaluates business combination opportunities. Any future business combination or series of business combinations that Regions might undertake may be material to Regions’ financial condition, in terms of assets acquired or liabilities assumed. Historically, business combinations in the financial services industry have typically involved the payment of a premium over book and market values of assets and liabilities acquired. This practice could result in dilution of book value and net income per share for the acquirer.

Segment Information

Reference is made to Note 22 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information required by this item.

Supervision and Regulation

Regions is subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. This framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (“FDIC”) Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) and the banking system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of stockholders or other investors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Regions. These descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Overview

Regions is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) as a bank holding company and has elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHC Act”). As such, Regions and its subsidiaries are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHC Act and the regulations of the Federal Reserve.

Generally, the BHC Act provides for “umbrella” regulation of financial holding companies by the Federal Reserve and functional regulation of holding company subsidiaries by applicable regulatory agencies. The BHC Act, however, requires the Federal Reserve to examine any subsidiary of a bank holding company, other than a depository institution, engaged in activities permissible for a depository institution. The Federal Reserve is also granted the authority, in certain circumstances, to require reports of, examine and adopt rules applicable to any holding company subsidiary.

In general, the BHC Act limits the activities permissible for bank holding companies. Bank holding companies electing to be treated as financial holding companies, however, may engage in additional activities under the BHC Act as described below under “-Permissible Activities under the BHC Act.” For a bank holding company to be eligible to elect financial holding company status, all of its subsidiary insured depository institutions must be well-capitalized and well-managed as described below under “-Regulatory Remedies Under the FDIA” and must have received at least a satisfactory rating on such institution’s most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the “CRA”). The bank holding company itself must also be well-capitalized and well-managed in order to be eligible to elect financial holding company status. If a financial holding company fails to continue to meet any of the prerequisites for financial holding company status after engaging in activities not permissible for bank holding companies that have not elected to be treated as financial holding companies, the company must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal Reserve may order the company to divest its subsidiary banks or the company may be required to discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a bank holding company electing to be treated as a financial holding company.

6

Table of Contents 

Regions is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Regions’ common stock, depository shares each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of its 6.375% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, and depository shares each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of its 6.375% Fixed-To-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B are each listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). Consequently, Regions is also subject to NYSE’s rules for listed companies.

Regions Bank is a member of the FDIC, and, as such, its deposits are insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by law. Regions Bank is an Alabama state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System. It is generally subject to supervision and examination by both the Federal Reserve and the Alabama State Banking Department. The Federal Reserve and the Alabama State Banking Department regularly examine the operations of Regions Bank and are given authority to approve or disapprove mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. The federal and state banking regulators also have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. Regions Bank is subject to numerous statutes and regulations that affect its business activities and operations, including various consumer protection laws and regulations. Regions Bank and its affiliates are also subject to supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations. Some of Regions’ non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies.

Permissible Activities under the BHC Act

In general, the BHC Act limits the activities permissible for bank holding companies to the business of banking, managing or controlling banks and such other activities as the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be properly incidental thereto. A bank holding company electing to be treated as a financial holding company, like Regions, may also engage in a range of activities that are (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of a depository institution or to the financial system generally. These activities include securities dealing, underwriting and market making, insurance underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking and insurance company portfolio investments.

The BHC Act does not place territorial restrictions on permissible non-banking activities of bank holding companies. The Federal Reserve has the power to order any bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the bank holding company.

Volcker Rule. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds. The statutory provision is commonly called the “Volcker Rule.” In December 2013, federal regulators adopted final rules to implement the Volcker Rule. The final rules also require that large bank holding companies, such as Regions, design and implement compliance programs to ensure adherence to the Volcker Rule’s prohibitions. Development and monitoring of the required compliance program may require the expenditure of resources and management attention.

Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards

The recent financial crisis led to the adoption and revision of numerous laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions operating in the United States. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act significantly restructured the financial regulatory regime in the United States and provides for enhanced supervision and prudential standards for, among other things, bank holding companies like Regions that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. Among other changes, the Dodd-Frank Act created a new systemic risk oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) to coordinate the efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies (including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the SEC) in establishing regulations to address systemic financial stability concerns. The Dodd-Frank Act also directed the FSOC to make recommendations to the Federal Reserve regarding supervisory requirements and prudential standards applicable to systemically important financial institutions (which includes all bank holding companies with over $50 billion in assets, such as Regions), including capital, leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other financial companies. The Federal Reserve has discretionary authority to establish additional prudential standards on its own or at the FSOC’s recommendation. 

Stress Testing. As part of the enhanced prudential requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions, the Federal Reserve conducts annual analyses of bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets to determine whether the companies have sufficient capital on a consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses in three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve: baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios. Regions is also required to conduct its own semi-annual stress analysis (together with the Federal Reserve’s stress analysis, the “stress tests”) to assess the potential impact on Regions of the economic and financial conditions used as part of the Federal Reserve’s annual stress analysis. The Federal Reserve may also use, and require companies to use, additional components in the adverse and severely adverse scenarios or additional or more complex scenarios designed to capture salient risks to specific business groups. Regions Bank is also required 

7

Table of Contents 

to conduct annual stress testing using the same economic and financial scenarios as Regions and report the results to the Federal Reserve. A summary of results of the Federal Reserve’s analysis under the adverse and severely adverse stress scenarios will be publicly disclosed, and the bank holding companies subject to the rules, including Regions, must disclose a summary of the company-run severely adverse stress test results. Regions is required to include in its disclosure a summary of the severely adverse scenario stress test conducted by Regions Bank. 

Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. U.S. bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions, must submit annual capital plans as part of the Federal Reserve’s comprehensive capital analysis and review process (“CCAR”). Covered bank holding companies may execute capital actions, such as paying dividends and repurchasing stock, only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed and not objected to by the Federal Reserve (or any amendments to such plan). The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that these bank holding companies have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company’s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. Each of the bank holding companies participating in the CCAR process is also required to collect and report certain related data to the Federal Reserve on a quarterly basis to allow the Federal Reserve to monitor progress against the approved capital plans. Each capital plan must include a view of capital adequacy under the stress test scenarios described above. The Federal Reserve may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered bank holding company will maintain a Tier 1 common equity ratio (as defined under the Basel I framework) of at least 5% on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon covered by the capital plan. The CCAR rules, consistent with prior Federal Reserve guidance, also provide that capital plans contemplating dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny. 

The Federal Reserve recently amended its capital planning and stress testing rules to, among other things, generally limit our ability to make quarterly capital distributions - that is, dividends and share repurchases - commencing April 1, 2015 if the amount of our actual cumulative quarterly capital issuances of instruments that qualify as regulatory capital are less than we had indicated in our submitted capital plan as to which we receive a non-objection from the Federal Reserve. For example, if we issue a smaller amount of additional common stock than we had stated in our capital plan, we would be required to reduce common dividends or the amount of common stock repurchases so that the dollar amount of capital distributions, net of the dollar amount of additional common stock issued (“net distributions”), is not greater than the dollar amount of net distributions relating to our common stock included in our capital plan, as measured on an aggregate basis beginning in the third quarter of the nine-quarter planning horizon through the end of the then current quarter. However, not raising sufficient amounts of common stock as planned would not affect distributions related to Additional Tier 1 capital or Tier 2 capital instruments (each as defined below). These limitations also contain several important qualifications and exceptions, including that scheduled dividend payments on (as opposed to repurchases of) any Additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital instruments are not restricted if we fail to issue a sufficient amount of such instruments as planned, as well as provisions for certain de minimis excess distributions. 

In addition, these amendments also revise the timeline for our annual capital plan and company- and supervisory- run stress testing processes generally by pushing back the various deadlines by one quarter beginning with the capital planning cycle commencing and thereafter, including that, beginning in 2016, our annual capital planning submission will be due by April 5 (instead of January 5) and the Federal Reserve will publish the results of its supervisory CCAR review of our capital plan by June 30 (instead of March 31) of each year. Regions submitted its 2015 CCAR capital plan to the Federal Reserve on January 5, 2015. 

Living Will Requirement. Under rules adopted by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to annually update our plan for our rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material distress or failure and may be required to update it upon the occurrence of material changes in our business, structure or operations. This resolution planning requirement may, as a practical matter, present additional constraints on our structure, operations and business strategy, and on transactions and business arrangements between our bank and non-bank subsidiaries because we must consider the impact of these matters on our ability to prepare and submit a resolution plan that demonstrates that we may be resolved under the Bankruptcy Code in a rapid and orderly manner. Additionally, if the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that our plan is not credible and we do not cure the deficiencies, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC may impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations of the Company. 

Orderly Liquidation Authority. The Dodd-Frank Act creates the Orderly Liquidation Authority (“OLA”), a resolution regime for systemically important non-bank financial companies, including bank holding companies, under which the FDIC may be appointed receiver to liquidate such a company if the company is in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. This determination must come from the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("U.S. Treasury") after supermajority recommendations by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC and consultation between the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury and the President of the United States, and after certain other conditions are met. OLA is similar to the FDIC resolution model for depository institutions, including granting very broad powers to the FDIC as receiver. Though creditors' rights under OLA were modified from the FDIC regime to reduce disparities in treatment between OLA and the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, substantial differences exist between the two regimes, including the ability of the FDIC to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the ability of the FDIC to transfer claims to a “bridge” entity. The Dodd-Frank Act also established an Orderly Liquidation Fund that may provide liquidity to the receivership or a related “bridge” entity in an 

8

Table of Contents 

OLA liquidation proceeding. The Orderly Liquidation Fund would be funded through borrowings from the U.S. Treasury and repaid from the assets of the failed financial company and, if necessary, risk-based assessments made, first, on entities that received more in the OLA proceeding than they would have received in a Chapter 7 liquidation to the extent of such excess and, second, on bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions, and on certain other non-bank financial companies. If an orderly liquidation is triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. It is not possible to determine the level of any such future assessments.

The FDIC has developed a strategy under OLA, referred to as the “single point of entry” or “SPOE” strategy, under which the FDIC would resolve a failed financial holding company by transferring its assets (including shares of its operating subsidiaries) and, potentially, very limited liabilities to a “bridge” holding company; utilize the resources of the failed financial holding company to recapitalize the operating subsidiaries; and satisfy the claims of unsecured creditors of the failed financial holding company and other claimants in the receivership by delivering securities of one or more new financial companies that would emerge from the bridge holding company. Under this strategy, management of the failed financial holding company would be replaced and shareholders and creditors of the failed financial holding company would bear the losses resulting from the failure. The FDIC issued a notice in December 2013 describing some elements of the SPOE strategy, and seeking public comment to further develop the strategy.

U.S. Department of Treasury’s Assessment Fee Program. The U.S. Treasury issued a rule implementing Section 155 of the Dodd-Frank Act to establish an assessment schedule for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to cover expenses associated with the Office of Financial Research, the FSOC and implementation of OLA by the FDIC. We believe the assessment will not be material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Additional Proposed SIFI Rules. The Federal Reserve has issued several proposed and final rules under its authority to establish such enhanced prudential standards for large bank holding companies, including the stress testing and capital adequacy rules discussed above. In addition, in February 2014, the Federal Reserve approved a final rule implementing several heightened prudential requirements, including the following:

•Enhanced Liquidity Management Standards: The Federal Reserve’s rule focuses on prudential steps to manage liquidity risk, which comprehensively details liquidity risk management responsibilities for boards of directors and senior management, and requires, among other things, maintenance of a liquidity buffer, consisting of assets meeting certain standards, that is sufficient to meet projected net cash outflows and projected loss or impairment of existing funding sources for 30 days over a range of liquidity stress scenarios. To complement these liquidity standards, the Federal Reserve and the other federal banking regulators issued a final rule in September 2014 implementing the liquidity coverage ratio standard derived from the international liquidity standards incorporated into the Basel III framework. See “ - Capital Requirements - Liquidity Regulation.”

•Enhanced Risk Management Requirements: Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, and publicly traded bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in consolidated assets, are required to establish a dedicated risk committee reporting directly to the company’s board of directors, comprised of members of the bank holding company’s board of directors, which would review and approve the enterprise-wide risk management policies of the company. The risk committee is required to have an appropriate number of independent directors, at least one risk management expert who has experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposure of large, complex financial firms, commensurate with the company’s capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, size and other appropriate risk-related factors, and is subject to certain governance provisions set forth in the rule. Such bank holding companies, including Regions, are also required to appoint a Chief Risk Officer.

While the final rule adopted by the Federal Reserve largely implements its prior proposals regarding liquidity and risk management, the final rule does not address the Federal Reserve’s proposals regarding single counterparty credit exposure or early remediation requirements.

Capital Requirements 

Regions and Regions Bank are each required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve. The current risk-based capital standards applicable to Regions and Regions Bank, parts of which are currently in the process of being phased-in, are based on the December 2010 final capital framework for strengthening international capital standards, known as Basel III, of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). Prior to January 1, 2015, however, the risk-based capital standards applicable to Regions and Regions Bank (the “general risk-based capital rules”) were based on the 1988 Capital Accord, known as Basel I, of the Basel Committee.

General Risk-Based Capital Rules. The general risk-based capital rules were intended to make regulatory capital requirements sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items were assigned to weighted risk categories. Capital was classified as Tier 1 (or core) capital or Tier 2 (or supplementary) capital depending on its characteristics. Under the general risk-based capital rules, Tier 1 capital included common equity, retained earnings, qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock (including related surplus), non-controlling interests in equity accounts of consolidated 

9

Table of Contents 

subsidiaries, and a limited amount of certain restricted core capital elements, less goodwill, most intangible assets and certain other assets, and Tier 2 capital included qualifying subordinated debt, qualifying mandatorily convertible debt securities, perpetual preferred stock not included in the definition of Tier 1 capital, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. 

Under the general risk-based capital rules, Regions and Regions Bank were each required to maintain Tier 1 capital and Total capital (that is, the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) equal to at least 4.0% and 8.0%, respectively, of total risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). The general risk-based capital rules also stated that voting common stockholders’ equity should be the predominant element within Tier 1 capital, and that banks and bank holding companies should avoid over-reliance on non-common equity elements. 

Advanced Approaches Risk-Based Capital Rules. In 2004, the Basel Committee published a new set of risk-based capital standards, known as Basel II, to revise Basel I. Basel II provides three approaches for setting capital standards for credit risk-“foundation” and “advanced” internal ratings-based approach tailored to individual institutions’ circumstances, and a standardized approach that bases risk-weighting on external credit assessments to a much greater extent than permitted in Basel I or the general risk-based capital rules. Basel II also sets capital requirements for operational risk and refines the existing capital requirements for market risk exposures. The federal bank regulators only adopted Basel II’s advanced approaches for banking organizations having $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposures of $10 billion or more. Regions and Regions Bank are not currently required to comply with the federal bank regulators’ rules implementing Basel II’s advanced approaches framework.

Basel III and the Final Capital Rules. In July 2013, the federal bank regulators approved final rules (the “Final Capital Rules”) implementing the Basel III framework as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Final Capital Rules also substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries, including Regions and Regions Bank, as compared to the general risk-based capital rules. The Final Capital Rules revise the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in regulatory capital ratios. The Final Capital Rules also address asset risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing general risk-weighting approach based on Basel I with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the standardized approach as part of Basel II. The Final Capital Rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal bank regulators’ rules. The Final Capital Rules became effective for Regions and Regions Bank on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period for certain provisions).

The Final Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a new capital measure called “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”), (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting certain revised requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments to capital as compared to existing regulations. 

Under the Final Capital Rules, the minimum capital ratios effective as of January 1, 2015 are:

•4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;

•6.0% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and

•8.0% Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets.

The Final Capital Rules also introduce a new capital conservation buffer designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. The capital conservation buffer is composed entirely of CET1, on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. In addition, the Final Capital Rules provide for a countercyclical capital buffer applicable only to certain covered institutions. We do not expect the countercyclical capital buffer to be applicable to Regions or Regions Bank. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the Final Capital Rules will require Regions and Regions Bank to maintain an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1, effectively resulting in minimum ratios of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%, and (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%. In addition, Regions is also subject to the Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule and supervisory CCAR program, pursuant to which our ability to make capital distributions and repurchase or redeem capital securities may be limited unless we are able to demonstrate our ability to meet applicable minimum capital ratios and currently a 5% minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio, (calculated under the general risk-based capital rules), as well as other requirements, over a nine quarter planning horizon under a “severely adverse” macroeconomic scenario generated yearly by the federal bank regulators. See “-Supervision and Regulation - Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards - Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review” for more information on these topics.

The Final Capital Rules also provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial 

10

Table of Contents 

entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1. 

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 began on January 1, 2015 and will be phased-in over a 4-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and be phased in over a 4-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).

The Final Capital Rules prescribe a new standardized approach for risk weightings that expands the risk-weighting categories from the current four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset classes.

In December 2014, the Federal Reserve Board proposed a rule to establish risk-based capital surcharges for certain global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”). For these institutions, the proposed rule implements the framework developed by the Basel Committee for assessing the global systemic importance of banking institutions and determining the range of additional CET1 that should be maintained by those deemed to be G-SIBs. Under the Basel Committee's framework, the required amount of additional CET1 for G-SIBs will initially range from 1% to 2.5% and could be higher in the future for a banking institution that increases its systemic footprint (e.g., by increasing total assets). The Federal Reserve Board stated that its framework would result in surcharges higher than those calculated under the methodology published by the Basel Committee, with expected surcharges ranging from 1% to 4.5%. The proposed rule treats the Basel Committee's methodology as a floor and introduces an alternative calculation to determine the applicable surcharge, which includes a new indicator based on an institution's use of short-term wholesale funding. We are not currently subject to this CET1 surcharge, however, it is possible that we may be subject to CET1 or other surcharges in the future.

Leverage Requirements. Bank holding companies and banks are also required to comply with minimum leverage ratio requirements. These requirements provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the “leverage ratio”), of 4.0% for all bank holding companies.

Liquidity Regulation. Liquidity risk management and supervision have become increasingly important since the financial crisis. During 2014 the federal banking agencies adopted final rules implementing for certain U.S. banking organizations one of the two new standards provided for in the Basel III liquidity framework - its liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), which is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity’s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25 percent of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The rules as adopted apply in their most comprehensive form only to advanced approaches bank holding companies and depository institutions subsidiaries of such bank holding companies and, in a modified form, to banking organizations having $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets such as Regions. Among other differences from the full LCR requirements, the modified LCR only uses a 21-day time horizon for calculating the level of required high-quality liquid assets under a stress scenario. The proposed rule is currently being phased in over a two-year period ending January 1, 2017, with 80% compliance required on January 1, 2015, 90% compliance on January 1, 2016 and 100% compliance on January 1, 2017.

The Basel III framework also included a second standard, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), which is designed to promote more medium-and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. Although the Basel committee finalized its formulation of the NSFR in 2014, the U.S. banking agencies have not yet proposed an NSFR for application to U.S. banking organizations or addressed the scope of banking organizations to which it will apply. The Basel Committee’s final NSFR document states that the NSFR applies to internationally active banks, as did its final LCR document as to that ratio.

The Federal Reserve’s heightened prudential requirements for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of consolidated total assets also include enhanced liquidity standards, as discussed above under “-Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards.”

Safety and Soundness Standards

Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDIA”), establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. Additionally, the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the FDIA. See “-Regulatory 

11

Table of Contents 

Remedies under the FDIA” below. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties.

Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA

The FDIA requires the federal banking agencies to take prompt corrective action in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. The FDIA establishes five capital categories (“well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized”), and the federal banking agencies must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions which are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the banking regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. As of December 31, 2014, both Regions and Regions Bank were well capitalized.

An institution that is classified as well-capitalized based on its capital levels may be treated as adequately capitalized, and an institution that is adequately capitalized or undercapitalized based upon its capital levels may be treated as though it were undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized, respectively, if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment.

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a bank holding company must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The bank holding company must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. The obligation of a controlling bank holding company under the FDIA to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5.0% of an undercapitalized subsidiary’s assets or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the approval of the FDIC. Institutions that are significantly undercapitalized or undercapitalized and either fail to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fail to implement an approved capital restoration plan may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions failing to submit or implement an acceptable capital restoration plan are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator.

Payment of Dividends

Regions is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. The principal source of cash flow to Regions, including cash flow to pay dividends to its stockholders and principal and interest on any of its outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to Regions, as well as by Regions to its stockholders.

If, in the opinion of a federal bank regulatory agency, an institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the institution, could include the payment of dividends), such agency may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and desist from such practice. The federal bank regulatory agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete an institution’s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the FDIA, an insured institution may not pay a dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. See “-Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA” above. Moreover, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued policy statements stating that bank holding companies and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings.

Payment of Dividends by Regions Bank. Under the Federal Reserve’s Regulation H, Regions Bank may not, without approval of the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to Regions if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year exceeds the total of (a) Regions Bank’s net income for that year and (b) its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to additional paid-in capital or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock.

Under Alabama law, Regions Bank may not pay a dividend in excess of 90% of its net earnings until the bank’s surplus is equal to at least 20% of capital. Regions Bank is also required by Alabama law to seek the approval of the Alabama Superintendent of Banking prior to the payment of dividends if the total of all dividends declared by Regions Bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (a) Regions Bank’s net earnings for that year, plus (b) its retained net earnings for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. The statute defines net earnings as the remainder of all earnings from current operations plus actual recoveries on loans and investments and other assets, after deducting from the total thereof all current operating expenses, actual losses, accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, and all federal, state and local taxes. Regions Bank cannot, without approval from the Federal Reserve and the Alabama Superintendent of Banking, declare or pay a dividend to Regions unless Regions Bank is able to satisfy the criteria discussed above.

12

Table of Contents 

Payment of Dividends by Regions. Regions’ payment of dividends is subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. In particular, the dividend policies and share repurchases of a large bank holding company, such as Regions, are reviewed by the Federal Reserve based on capital plans submitted as part of the CCAR process and stress tests as submitted by the bank holding company, and will be assessed against, among other things, the bank holding company’s ability to achieve the required capital ratios under the Final Capital Rules as they are phased in by U.S. regulators. See “-Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards” and “-Capital Requirements” above.

Support of Subsidiary Banks

Under longstanding Federal Reserve policy which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, Regions is expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, its subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when Regions may not be inclined to provide it. In addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

Transactions with Affiliates

There are various legal restrictions governing transactions between Regions and its non-bank subsidiaries, on the one hand, and Regions Bank and its subsidiaries, on the other hand, including the extent to which Regions and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise obtain funding from Regions Bank. In general, any “covered transaction” by Regions Bank (or its subsidiaries) with an affiliate that is an extension of credit must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and must be limited to (i) in the case of any single such affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of Regions Bank and its subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of Regions Bank, and (ii) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of Regions Bank and its subsidiaries may not exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of Regions Bank. Covered transactions are defined to include, among other things, a loan or extension of credit, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve) from the affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, derivatives transactions and securities lending transactions where the bank has credit exposure to an affiliate, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. All covered transactions, including certain additional transactions (such as transactions with a third party in which an affiliate has a financial interest), must be conducted on market terms.

Deposit Insurance

Regions Bank accepts deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank’s federal regulatory agency.

Deposit Insurance Assessments. Regions Bank pays deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC based on an assessment rate established by the FDIC. FDIC assessment rates for large institutions are calculated based on one of two scorecards, one for most large institutions that have more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank, and another for “highly complex” institutions that have over $50 billion in assets and are fully owned by a parent with over $500 billion in assets. Each scorecard has a performance score and a loss-severity score that are combined to produce a total score, which is translated into an initial assessment rate. In calculating these scores, the FDIC utilizes the bank’s supervisory (“CAMELS”) ratings as well as forward-looking financial measures to assess an institution’s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score, up or down, based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the scorecard. The total score is then translated to an initial base assessment rate on a non-linear, sharply-increasing scale. For large institutions, including Regions Bank, the initial base assessment rate ranges from 5 to 35 basis points on an annualized basis (basis points representing cents per $100). After the effect of potential base-rate adjustments, the total base assessment rate could range from 2.5 to 45 basis points on an annualized basis. The potential adjustments to an institution’s initial base assessment rate include (i) a potential decrease of up to 5 basis points for certain long-term unsecured debt (“unsecured debt adjustment”) and (ii) (except for well-capitalized institutions with a CAMELS rating of 1 or 2) a potential increase of up to 10 basis points for brokered deposits in excess of 10% of domestic deposits (“brokered deposit adjustment”). As the DIF reserve ratio grows, the rate schedule will be adjusted downward. Additionally, the rule includes a new adjustment for depository institution debt whereby an institution will pay an additional premium equal to 50 basis points on every dollar (above 3% of an institution’s Tier 1 capital) of long-term, unsecured debt held that was issued by another insured depository institution, excluding debt guaranteed under the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The deposit insurance assessment base is calculated based on the average of consolidated total assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. During 2014, Regions Bank’s deposit administrative fees were $75 million, a $50 million decrease from 2013.

The FDIA establishes a minimum ratio of deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits, the designated reserve ratio (the “DRR”), of 1.15% prior to September 2020 and 1.35% thereafter. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC issued a final rule setting the DRR at 2%. The FDIC will, at least semi-annually, update its income and loss projections for the DIF and, if necessary, 

13

Table of Contents 

propose rules to further increase assessment rates. In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC announced that it would seek public comment on whether banks with compensation plans that encourage risky behavior should be charged higher deposit assessment rates than such banks would otherwise be charged. Comments were due February 18, 2010. As of February 2015, no rule has been adopted.

We cannot predict whether, as a result of an adverse change in economic conditions or other reasons, the FDIC will increase deposit insurance assessment levels in the future. For more information, see the “Deposit Administrative Fees” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

FICO Assessments. In addition, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF applicable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO will be in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedules. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. Regions Bank had a FICO assessment of approximately $6 million in FDIC deposit premiums in 2014, which was included in the $75 million in total deposit administrative fees previously disclosed.

Acquisitions

The BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. Bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion must (i) obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain non-bank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Bank holding companies seeking approval to complete an acquisition must be well-capitalized and well-managed.

The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues includes the parties’ performance under the CRA, both of which are discussed below. The Federal Reserve must also take into account the institutions’ effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the BHC Act was amended to require the Federal Reserve to, when evaluating a proposed transaction, consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system.

Depositor Preference

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver.

Incentive Compensation

Guidelines adopted by the federal banking agencies pursuant to the FDIA prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder.

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies (the “Incentive Compensation Guidance”) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The Incentive Compensation Guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The Incentive Compensation Guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies.

14

Table of Contents 

In April 2011, the Federal Reserve, other federal banking agencies and the Securities and Exchange Commission jointly published proposed rulemaking designed to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act prohibiting incentive compensation arrangements that would encourage inappropriate risk taking at a covered institution, which includes a bank or bank holding company with $1 billion or more of assets, such as Regions and Regions Bank. The proposed rule (i) prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders to expose the institution to inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation (based on the standards for excessive compensation adopted pursuant to the FDIA) and (ii) prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements for executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders that could lead to a material financial loss for the institution. The proposed rule requires covered institutions to establish policies and procedures for monitoring and evaluating their compensation practices. Institutions with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions, are subject to additional restrictions on compensation arrangements for their executive officers and any other persons identified by the institution’s board of directors as having the ability to expose the institution to substantial losses. The comment period ended in May 2011. Although final rules have not been adopted as of February 2015, officials from the Federal Reserve have recently indicated that the U.S. banking regulators are in the process of preparing for public comment a new rule on incentive compensation. If these or other regulations are adopted in a form similar to that initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the manner in which we may structure compensation for our executives.

The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators’ policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop. It cannot be determined at this time whether or when a final rule will be adopted and whether compliance with such a final rule will adversely affect the ability of Regions and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees.

Consumer Protection Laws

Regions is subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws, including laws designed to protect customers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and their respective state law counterparts.

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new, independent federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"), which was granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, their service providers and certain non-depository entities such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a “qualified mortgage” as defined by the CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations.

The CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules which impact nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential mortgage loan. These rules implement the Dodd-Frank Act amendments to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Among other things, the rules adopted by the CFPB require banks to: (i) develop and implement procedures to ensure compliance with a “reasonable ability to repay” test and identify whether a loan meets a new definition for a “qualified mortgage,” in which case a rebuttable presumption exists that the creditor extending the loan has satisfied the reasonable ability to repay test; (ii) implement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for originating and servicing mortgages including, but not limited to, pre-loan counseling, early intervention with delinquent borrowers and specific loss mitigation procedures for loans secured by a borrower's principal residence; (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan originator hiring and compensation; (iv) comply with new disclosure requirements and standards for appraisals and certain financial products; and (v) maintain escrow accounts for higher-priced mortgage loans for a longer period of time. Regions is continuing to analyze the impact that such rules may have on its business. In addition to the exercise of its rulemaking authority, the CFPB’s supervisory powers entitle the CFPB to examine institutions for violations of consumer lending laws, even in the absence of consumer complaints or damages.

Financial Privacy

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services.

15

Table of Contents 

Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA")

Regions Bank is subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, Regions Bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, so long as they are consistent with the CRA. The CRA requires each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a depository institution, to assess such institution’s record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The regulatory agency’s assessment of the institution’s record is made available to the public. The assessment also is part of the Federal Reserve’s consideration of applications to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. Regions Bank received a “satisfactory” CRA rating in its most recent examination.

USA PATRIOT Act

A focus of governmental policy relating to financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “USA PATRIOT Act”) broadened the application of anti-money laundering regulations to apply to additional types of financial institutions such as broker-dealers, investment advisors and insurance companies, and strengthened the ability of the U.S. Government to help prevent, detect and prosecute international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The principal provisions of Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act require that regulated financial institutions, including state member banks: (i) establish an anti-money laundering program that includes training and audit components; (ii) comply with regulations regarding the verification of the identity of any person seeking to open an account; (iii) take additional required precautions with non-U.S. owned accounts; and (iv) perform certain verification and certification of money laundering risk for their foreign correspondent banking relationships. Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA PATRIOT Act’s requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Regions’ banking and insurance subsidiaries have augmented their systems and procedures to meet the requirements of these regulations and will continue to revise and update their policies, procedures and controls to reflect changes required by the USA PATRIOT Act and implementing regulations. The USA PATRIOT Act also requires federal banking regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences.

Regulation of Insurers and Insurance Brokers

Regions’ operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws generally grant broad discretion to regulatory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. This supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling of customer funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Certain of Regions’ insurance company subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory supervision and to insurance laws and regulations requiring, among other things, maintenance of capital, record keeping, reporting and examinations.

Regulation of Broker Dealers

Our subsidiary Regions Securities LLC (“Regions Securities”) is a registered broker dealer with the SEC and, as a result, is subject to regulation and examination by the SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations. These regulations cover a broad range of issues, including capital requirements; sales and trading practices; use of client funds and securities; the conduct of directors, officers and employees; record-keeping and recording; supervisory procedures to prevent improper trading on material non-public information; qualification and licensing of sales personnel; and limitations on the extension of credit in securities transactions. In addition to federal registration, state securities commissions require the registration of certain broker-dealers. 

16

Table of Contents 

Competition

All aspects of Regions’ business are highly competitive. Regions’ subsidiaries compete with other financial institutions located in the states in which they operate and other adjoining states, as well as large banks in major financial centers and other financial intermediaries, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, Internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, mortgage companies and financial service operations of major commercial and retail corporations. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the sustained low interest rate and ongoing low-growth economic environment. Also, as banks in Regions' footprint act to attain compliance with the LCR, there is a chance deposit pricing, particularly long-term time deposits could become even more competitive. 

Customers for banking services and other financial services offered by Regions’ subsidiaries are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, price of services and availability of products. Although Regions’ position varies in different markets, Regions believes that its affiliates effectively compete with other financial services companies in their relevant market areas.

Employees

As of December 31, 2014, Regions and its subsidiaries had 23,723 employees.

Available Information

Regions maintains a website at www.regions.com. Regions makes available on its website, free of charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These documents are made available on Regions’ website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available on the website are Regions’ (i) Corporate Governance Principles, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, (iii) Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, (iv) Fair Disclosure Policy Summary, and (v) the charters of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Risk Committee.

17

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors