Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Management believes the following sections summarize several of the most relevant matters necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporation’s (“Regions” or “the Company”) business, particularly regarding its 2014 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

2014 Results

Regions reported net income available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.80 per diluted share, in 2014 compared to net income available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.77 per diluted share, in 2013. 

Net interest income (taxable-equivalent basis) from continuing operations totaled $3.3 billion for both 2014 and 2013. The net interest margin (taxable-equivalent basis) was 3.21 percent in 2014, reflecting a 1 basis point increase over 2013. 

The provision for loan losses totaled $69 million in 2014 compared to $138 million in 2013. Credit metrics, including net charge-offs, non-accrual loans, criticized and classified loan balances, past due loans, and troubled debt restructurings all showed continued improvement in 2014 compared to 2013. Net charge-offs were 0.40 percent of average loans in 2014, compared to 0.96 percent in 2013. Net charge-offs again exceeded provision for loan losses in 2014 primarily due to continued improvement in credit metrics. 

Non-interest income from continuing operations was $1.8 billion in 2014 compared to $2.0 billion in 2013. The decline from the prior year was driven primarily by an $87 million decrease in mortgage income and a $39 million decrease in service charges on deposit accounts. See Table 5 "Non-Interest Income from Continuing Operations" for further details. 

Non-interest expense from continuing operations was $3.4 billion in 2014 compared to $3.6 billion in 2013. The 2014 period included a $100 million charge during the fourth quarter for contingent legal and regulatory accruals related to previously disclosed matters, and a $16 million charge related to announced branch consolidations, partially offset by a $35 million gain related to the subsequent 2014 sale of modified residential first mortgage loans transferred to held for sale in late 2013. The 2013 period included a $58 million regulatory charge, $5 million in branch consolidation charges, and $61 million in loss on early extinguishment of debt. See Table 6 "Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations" for further details.

A discussion of activity within discontinued operations is included at the end of "Operating Results" in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section of this report.

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•"Operating Results" section of MD&A

•Note 23 "Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees" to the consolidated financial statements

Capital

Capital Actions

As part of its 2014 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR") submission, Regions' proposed capital plans included increasing its quarterly common stock dividend from $0.03 per share to $0.05 per share; the issuance of $500 million of the Company's 6.375% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B; and the execution of up to $350 million in common share repurchases. The Federal Reserve did not object to these plans. 

Regions' Board of Directors declared the higher common stock dividend each quarter in 2014 beginning with the second quarter. Management expects to continue to evaluate the amount of the common stock dividend with the Board of Directors and in conjunction with regulatory supervisors, subject to the Company’s results of operations.

Regions' Board of Directors approved the issuance of $500 million of its 6.375% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B. Net proceeds from the Series B preferred stock issuance increased equity by approximately $486 million. 

Regions’ Board of Directors also approved the share repurchase plan. The share repurchase authority granted by the Board of Directors was available at the beginning of the second quarter of 2014 and will continue through the first quarter of 2015. As of December 31, 2014, Regions had repurchased approximately 25 million shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $248 million, under this plan. The Company continued to repurchase shares under this plan into the first quarter of 2015. These shares were immediately retired upon repurchase and therefore are not included in treasury stock.

35

Table of Contents 

The 2015 CCAR capital plan was submitted in early January 2015, and results are expected to be communicated in March 2015.

For more information refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Stockholders’ Equity” discussion in MD&A

•Note 14 “Stockholders’ Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)” to the consolidated financial statements

Regulatory Capital

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve. Under Basel I, the minimum guidelines to be considered well-capitalized for Tier I capital and Total capital are 6.0 percent and 10.0 percent, respectively. At December 31, 2014, Regions’ Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios were 12.54 percent and 15.26 percent, respectively. In addition, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators routinely supplement their assessment of capital adequacy based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, know as Tier 1 common equity. Although Federal banking regulators did not establish minimum guidelines to be considered well-capitalized under Basel I, the Tier 1 common equity ratio has been a key component in assessing capital adequacy under the CCAR process. At December 31, 2014, Regions’ Tier 1 common equity ratio (non-GAAP) was 11.65 percent. 

In 2013, Regions' and Regions Bank's primary federal regulator, the Federal Reserve, published final rules (the “Basel III Capital Rules”) establishing an updated comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. The Basel III Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and depository institutions, including Regions and Regions Bank, compared to Basel I. The Basel III Capital Rules are effective for Regions and Regions Bank beginning January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period) and will be reported in connection with March 31, 2015 results.

The Basel III Capital Rules officially define the Tier 1 common equity ratio (referred to in the rule as “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”)). When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets will be at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% upon full implementation). Regions’ understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as analysis and discussions with regulators continue. Based on its current understanding, Regions estimates its CET1 ratio (non-GAAP) under a fully phased in Basel III at December 31, 2014 to be 11.00% percent. 

In 2014, the Federal Reserve Board released the final version of the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), which requires modified LCR banks, including Regions, to hold high-quality liquid assets sufficient to cover 70 percent of projected net cash outflows under a prescribed 21-day liquidity stress scenario. The implementation date for modified LCR banks is January 1, 2016 (subject to a phase-in period). The Company anticipates being fully compliant with the LCR requirements upon implementation without having to make any significant changes to its current balance sheet. However, should Regions' cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions' ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. 

For more information refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Supervision and Regulation” discussion within Item 1. Business

•Table 2 - “GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliation” in MD&A

•"Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements" section of MD&A

•Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements

Loan Portfolio and Credit

The Company grew total loans during 2014 by $2.7 billion or 4 percent compared to year-end 2013. Loan growth was led by the commercial and industrial portfolio which increased $3.3 billion in 2014 and the indirect portfolio which grew $567 million in 2014. The combined growth of these two portfolios more than offset declines in commercial real estate and home equity loans. Investor real estate loans leveled out in 2014 reflecting a modest $63 million increase over the prior year-end. The economy has been and will continue to be the primary factor which influences Regions’ loan portfolio. Customers continued to experience modest economic improvement during 2014 primarily through low interest rates and the continued housing market recovery. The economic momentum experienced over the second half of 2014 is expected to be sustained in 2015. However, headwinds still persist particularly in the jobs market. Reported unemployment figures continue to improve, however many previously unemployed workers have taken only part-time positions while others have chosen to exit the workforce all together. Management’s expectation for 2015 end of period loan growth is in the 4 percent to 6 percent range.

Net charge-offs totaled $307 million, or 0.40 percent of average loans, in 2014, compared to $716 million, or 0.96 percent in 2013. Net charge-offs were lower across most major loan categories when comparing 2014 to the prior year. Net charge-offs again exceeded provision for loan losses in 2014 primarily due to continued improvement in credit metrics, including lower levels of non-accrual loans, criticized and classified loans, delinquent loans, as well as, problem loan resolutions. Total non-performing 

36

Table of Contents 

assets were $991 million at December 31, 2014, compared to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013. The allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2014 was 1.43 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, compared to 1.80 percent at December 31, 2013. The coverage ratio of allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans was 1.33x at December 31, 2014 compared to 1.24x at December 31, 2013.

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Allowance for Credit Losses” discussion within the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of MD&A

•“Provision for Loan Losses” discussion within the “Operating Results” section of MD&A

•“Loans,” “Allowance for Credit Losses,” “Troubled Debt Restructurings” and “Non-performing Assets” discussions within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A

•“Credit Risk” discussion within the “Risk Management” section of MD&A

•Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements

•Note 5 "Loans" to the consolidated financial statements

•Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements

Net Interest Income, Margin and Interest Rate Risk

In 2014, the net interest margin increased 1 basis point to 3.21 percent, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 11 basis points in 2014 from 15 basis points in 2013, as well as the maturity and payoff of approximately $1.4 billion of long-term debt. These improvements contributed to a 9 basis point reduction in the the total cost paid on interest-bearing liabilities, which more than offset the 6 basis point decline in the yield on interest-earning assets. 

Taxable-equivalent net interest income increased $26 million in 2014, due primarily to a decline in both the volume of and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. These declines were partially offset by a modest decline in interest income earned on approximately $391 million of increased interest-earning assets originated at lower interest rates. Despite the continued improvements in both cost and mix of interest-bearing liabilities, the net interest income and margin continue to be pressured by a sustained low interest rate, low growth environment. The Company did experience 2 percent growth in average loans in 2014, and 4 percent growth on a period-end basis. 

Management is optimistic for continued growth in 2015. If economic conditions and interest rates follow a course of moderate increase through 2015, and the Company achieves its targeted range of loan growth, management believes that the net interest margin will remain stable to moderately rising. Alternatively, if rates in 2015 remain at levels prevalent at year-end 2014, management believes the net interest margin will come under modest pressure of approximately 10 to 12 basis points over the course of the year. Regions’ balance sheet is in a moderately asset sensitive position and should benefit from a rise in either long-term or short-term rates. So, if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby spurring a more rapid rise in interest rates, both net interest income and the resulting net interest margin would respond favorably. 

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Net Interest Income and Margin” discussion within the “Operating Results” section of MD&A

•“Interest Rate Risk” discussion within “Risk Management” section of MD&A

Liquidity

At the end of 2014, Regions Bank had over $2.3 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve and the loan-to-deposit ratio was 82 percent. Cash and cash equivalents at the parent company totaled $1.9 billion. Regions' liquidity policy related to minimum holding company cash requirements requires the holding company to maintain cash sufficient to cover the greater of (1) 18 months of debt service and other cash needs or (2) a minimum cash balance of $500 million. 

At December 31, 2014, the Company’s borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve was $21.3 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing availability with the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) was $9.9 billion based on available collateral at the same date. The Company has approximately $10.3 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. Regions also maintains a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that can be utilized by the Company to issue various debt and/or equity securities. Additionally, Regions' Board of Directors has approved a bank note program which would allow Regions Bank to issue up to $5 billion in aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. As of December 31, 2014, no issues have been made under this program. 

See the "Regulatory Capital" section above for a full discussion of the LCR.

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Supervision and Regulation” discussion within Item 1. Business 

37

Table of Contents 

•“Short-Term Borrowings” discussion within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A

•“Long-Term Borrowings” discussion within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A

•“Regulatory Capital Requirements” section of MD&A

•“Liquidity Risk” discussion within the “Risk Management” section of MD&A

•Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements

•Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements

GENERAL

The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions’ financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on continuing operations for the years 2014, 2013 and 2012; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted.

Regions’ profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non-interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest-bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions’ net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non-interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, card and ATM fees, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, investment management and trust activities, insurance activities, capital markets and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non-interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional, legal and regulatory expenses, deposit administrative fees and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes.

Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect most, if not all, financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions’ market areas.

Regions’ business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations.

Dispositions

On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan and related affiliates to Raymond James. The sale closed on April 2, 2012. Regions Investment Management, Inc. (formerly known as Morgan Asset Management, Inc.) and Regions Trust were not included in the sale. They are now included in the Wealth Management segment.

Results of operations for the entities sold are presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented on the consolidated statements of income. Other expenses related to the transaction are also included in discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” and Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” for further details.

Business Segments

Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of asset management, wealth management, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from three reportable segments: Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank, and Wealth Management, with the remainder split between Discontinued Operations and Other. During the fourth quarter of 2014, Regions reorganized its internal management structure and, accordingly, its segment reporting structure. Previously, Regions’ three operating segments were Business Services, Consumer Services, and Wealth Management. Under the organizational realignment, Regions has created a Consumer Bank, which consists principally of the previous Consumer Services segment with businesses that serve retail and small business banking customers, and a Corporate Bank, which consists principally of the previous Business Services segment with businesses that serve middle-market and large commercial clients. Previously, small business banking was included within Business Services, but is now included in the Consumer Bank as its product set is more consistent with those offered in that segment. The Wealth Management segment remained unchanged during the reorganization. Segment results for all periods presented have been recast to reflect this organizational realignment.

See Note 22 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions’ business segments.

38

Table of Contents 

Table 1—Financial Highlights

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

39

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________

NM—Not meaningful

(1)See Table 2 for GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations.

(2)Current year Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 common risk-based capital, Total risk-based capital, and Leverage capital ratios are estimated.

(3)High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices.

NON-GAAP MEASURES

The table below presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures, which exclude certain significant items that are included in the financial results presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include “adjusted fee income ratio”, “adjusted efficiency ratio”, “return on average tangible common stockholders’ equity”, average and end of period “tangible common stockholders’ equity”, “Tier 1 common equity”, and “Basel III CET1” and related ratios. Regions believes that expressing earnings and certain other financial measures excluding these significant items provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions’ business because management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures as follows:

•Preparation of Regions’ operating budgets

•Monthly financial performance reporting

•Monthly close-out reporting of consolidated results (management only)

•Presentations to investors of Company performance

The adjusted efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non-interest expense divided by total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis. The adjusted fee income ratio (non-GAAP) is generally calculated as non-interest income divided by total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the adjusted efficiency ratio. Non-interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the adjusted fee income ratio. Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis and non-interest income are added together to arrive at total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis. Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis (non-GAAP), which is the denominator for the adjusted efficiency and adjusted fee income ratios. 

Tangible common stockholders’ equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank’s capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserve’s CCAR process, these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. Analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions’ capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders’ equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions’ capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 

40

Table of Contents 

1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions’ capital adequacy on these same bases.

Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the current risk-based capital framework, a bank’s balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that makes up the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio (non-GAAP). The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.

Regions currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulations. When fully phased-in, Basel III will increase capital requirements through higher minimum capital levels as well as through increases in risk-weights for certain exposures. Additionally, the final Basel III rules place greater emphasis on common equity. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve released final rules detailing the U.S. implementation of Basel III. Regions, as a non-advanced approaches bank, began transitioning to the Basel III framework in January 2015 subject to a phase-in period extending through January 2019. The calculations provided below are estimates. Because the Basel III implementation regulations will not be fully phased-in until 2019, are not formally defined by GAAP, and because the calculations currently include the Company's interpretations of the requirements including informal feedback received through the regulatory process and are therefore likely to change as clarifying guidance becomes available, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions’ disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions’ capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions’ capital adequacy on the same basis. 

Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes selected items does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders.

The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (GAAP) to net income available to common shareholders (GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of non-interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non-interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), 4) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), 5) a computation of the adjusted efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), 6) a computation of the adjusted fee income ratio (non-GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders’ equity (non-GAAP) and calculations of related ratios (non-GAAP), 8) a reconciliation of stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, and 9) a reconciliation of stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to Basel III CET1 (non-GAAP) and calculation of the related ratio based on Regions’ current understanding of the Basel III requirements. The estimate at both December 31, 2014 and 2013 are based on the final rule released in July 2013 and the estimate at December 31, 2012 is based on the U.S. Notices of Proposed Rulemaking released in July 2012.

41

Table of Contents 

Table 2—GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43

Table of Contents 

 _________

(1)Regions recorded $100 million of contingent legal and regulatory accruals during the fourth quarter of 2014 related to previously disclosed matters.

(2)In the fourth quarter of 2013, Regions recorded a non-tax deductible charge of $58 million related to previously disclosed inquiries from government authorities concerning matters from 2009. The 2013 matters were settled in the second quarter of 2014 for $7 million less than originally estimated and a corresponding recovery was recognized. In the second quarter of 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge to account for a probable, reasonably estimable loss related to a pending settlement of regulatory matters. $75 million of the 2010 regulatory charge related to continuing operations. 

(3)In the fourth quarter of 2012, Regions entered into an agreement with a third party investor in Regions Asset Management Company, Inc., pursuant to which the investment was fully redeemed. This resulted in extinguishing a $203 million liability, including accrued, unpaid interest, as well as incurring early termination costs of approximately $42 million on a pre-tax basis ($38 million after tax).

(4)In the third quarter of 2013, Regions recorded a $24 million gain on sale of a non-core portion of a Wealth Management business.

(5)Current annual amounts and the resulting ratio are estimated.

(6)Taxable income from the two previous tax years and one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes.

(7)The 2014 and 2013 estimates are based on the final rule released in July 2013. The 2012 estimate is based on the June 2012 U.S. Notices of Proposed Rulemaking.

(8)Under Basel III, in addition to goodwill and other identified intangibles, regulatory capital must be reduced by purchased credit card relationship intangible assets. The majority of these assets are allowed in Basel I capital.

(9)Regions continues to develop systems and internal controls to precisely calculate risk-weighted assets as required by Basel III. The amount is a reasonable approximation, based on our understanding of the requirements.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND RELATED POLICIES

In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), residential mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses (“allowance”) consists of two components: the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. The allowance represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of period end. 

The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding, portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as the general health of the economy, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product ("GDP"), and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Management considers these variables and all available information when establishing the final level of the allowance. These variables and others have the ability to result in actual loan losses that differ from the originally estimated amounts. 

Management’s estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individual’s credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. For non-accrual commercial and investor real estate loans equal to or greater than $2.5 million, the allowance for loan losses is based on note-level evaluation considering the facts and circumstances specific to each borrower. For all other commercial and investor real estate loans, the allowance for loan losses is based on statistical models using a probability of default (“PD”) and a loss given default (“LGD”). Historical default information for similar loans is used as an input for the statistical model. A 5 percent increase in the PD for non-defaulted commercial and investor real estate accounts and a 5 percent increase in the LGD for all accounts would result in an increase to estimated inherent losses of approximately $57 million.

For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer-related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 5 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $13 million.

The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. A full discussion of these assumptions and other factors is included in the “Allowance for Credit Losses” section within the discussion of “Credit Risk”, found in a later section of this report, Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

44

Table of Contents 

Fair Value Measurements

A portion of the Company’s assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account securities, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, residential mortgage servicing rights and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets.

Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to “normal” market activity, management’s objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third-party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates.

A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company-specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Company’s own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability.

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes.

Intangible Assets 

Regions’ intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (“goodwill”) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at both December 31, 2014 and 2013 and is allocated to each of Regions’ reportable segments (each a reporting unit: Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank, and Wealth Management). Refer to Note 22 “Business Segment Information” for discussion of Regions' reorganization of its management reporting structure during the fourth quarter of 2014 and, accordingly, its segment reporting structure and goodwill reporting units. In connection with the reorganization, management reallocated goodwill to the new reporting units using a relative fair value approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion). 

A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount, including goodwill. To the extent that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied estimated fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities excluding goodwill and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The carrying value of equity for each reporting unit is determined from an allocation based upon risk weighted assets. Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value.

The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is determined using a blend of both income and market approaches. Within the income approach, which is the primary valuation approach, Regions utilizes the capital asset pricing model (“CAPM”) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20-year risk-free rate, 5-year beta for a select peer set specific to each reporting unit, and a market risk premium based on published data. To determine the estimated cost of equity for each 

45

Table of Contents 

reporting unit, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company-specific risk premium for each reporting unit, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. Regions evaluates the appropriateness of the inputs to the CAPM at each test date. Company specific factors considered during recent evaluation periods include positive results of operations, improvement in asset quality and strong capital and liquidity positions. 

In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and statements of income for the last twelve months of activity for each reporting unit is compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of income are projected based on the inputs. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and/or budgets. These internal forecasts range from 1 to 3 years and are based on inputs developed in the Company’s internal strategic and capital planning processes.

Regions uses the guideline public company method ("GCM") and the guideline transaction method ("GTM") as its market approaches. The GCM applies a value multiplier derived from each reporting unit’s peer group to a financial metric and an implied control premium to the respective reporting units. The control premium is evaluated and compared to similar financial services transactions considering the absolute and relative potential revenue synergies and cost savings. The GTM applies a value multiplier to a financial metric of the reporting unit based on comparable observed purchase transactions in the financial services industry for the reporting unit (where available).

Refer to Note 9 “Intangible Assets” for further discussion of these approaches and related assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities in Step Two, if applicable, are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities.

 The results of the calculations for the fourth quarter of 2014 indicated that the estimated fair values of the Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank and Wealth Management reporting units were $8.3 billion, $7.7 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, which were greater than their carrying amounts of $7.7 billion, $7.0 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. Therefore, the goodwill of each reporting unit was considered not impaired as of the testing date, and Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was not required.

The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment test of each reporting unit for the fourth quarter of 2014 and all four quarters of 2013:

Discount Rates 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Company’s market capitalization; disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets (especially loans) compared to equity; increases in book values of equity of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in fair value of equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and/or regulatory actions; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of high unemployment levels; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations (e.g., such as those resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act); and/or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates significantly beyond 2015.

For sensitivity analysis, a discount rate of 12.0 percent for the Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank, and Wealth Management reporting units would result in estimated fair values of equity of $7.8 billion, $7.4 billion, and $1.7 billion, respectively. All three reporting units' estimated fair value would continue to exceed the book value by approximately $140 million, $428 million, and $421 million, respectively, and would not require Step Two procedures.

Sensitivity calculations are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on 

46

Table of Contents 

the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change.

Other material identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and/or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions’ operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated.

Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights

Regions estimates the fair value of its residential mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of residential mortgage servicing rights do occur, residential mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the “Fair Value Measurements” section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related residential mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its residential mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its residential mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted residential mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of residential mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. The carrying value of residential mortgage servicing rights was $257 million at December 31, 2014. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2014 fair value of residential mortgage servicing rights by approximately 6 percent ($15 million) and 12 percent ($32 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2014 fair value of residential mortgage servicing rights by approximately 6 percent ($14 million) and 11 percent ($28 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 19 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the residential mortgage servicing rights by approximately $8 million.

The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the “Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights” discussion in the “Balance Sheet” analysis section found later in this report.

Income Taxes

Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect management’s estimate of income taxes to be paid or received.

Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax-planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre-tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book-tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the “Income Taxes” section found later in this report.

The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. The Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to any tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities.

The Company’s estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

47

Table of Contents 

OPERATING RESULTS

NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN 

Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions’ principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions’ ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis increased approximately $26 million, or 1 percent in 2014 from 2013, driven primarily by a decline in rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities, and a lower level of non-deposit borrowings resulting from the execution of liability management actions. The net interest margin increased to 3.21 percent in 2014 from 3.20 percent in 2013, reflecting a favorable mix shift in deposits out of higher-cost time deposits into lower-cost checking, savings and money market accounts. 

Comparing 2014 to 2013, average interest-earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 6 basis points. However, interest-bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 9 basis points, more than offsetting the drop in interest-earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 3 basis points to 3.06 percent in 2014 compared to 3.03 percent in 2013.

Monetary policy action pursued by the Federal Reserve, as well as a modest pace of economic recovery resulted in continued low levels of both long and short-term interest rates in 2014, both of which have influence on net interest margin and net interest income. Long-term rates are generally represented by the yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note. The 10-year U.S. Treasury note was 3.00 percent at the beginning of 2014 and ended the year at 2.17 percent. The average yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note increased slightly to 2.54 percent in 2014 compared to 2.35 percent in 2013. While being somewhat volatile during the year, long-term rates remained at historically low levels overall, which pressured interest-earning asset yields through their impact on fixed-rate loans and securities. One way in which long-term interest rates affect asset yields is through their influence on prepayment activity. Low levels of long-term interest rates precipitate higher levels of prepayments, particularly within fixed-rate loan and securities portfolios, which has resulted in the replacement of these assets at lower rates of interest. Additionally, government programs such as the Home Affordable Refinance Program ("HARP") have influenced levels of prepayments among loans and securities in a similar fashion. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed-rate exposure, increased in yield from 2.38 percent in 2013 to 2.55 percent in 2014, largely attributable to the moderately higher average Treasury rates in 2014. The Company's loan pricing is also influenced by short-term rates such as the 30-day London Interbank Offering Rate ("LIBOR"), which on average was 16 basis points in 2014, compared to 19 basis points in 2013, and therefore had minimal impact on changes in the net interest margin. 

The negative impact of low, long-term interest rates on interest-earning assets was more than offset by improvements in liability costs in 2013 and 2014. While the rates that most directly influence deposits costs (such as the Federal Reserve’s Rate of Interest on Excess Reserves and the Prime rate) both remained low and unchanged from the previous year-end level (at 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively), deposit costs improved from 15 basis points in 2013 to 11 basis points in 2014. The improvement was due both to absolute improvements in cost of most deposit categories, but also to improvements in the mix of deposits from higher-cost time deposits to lower-cost checking and savings categories. For example, average time deposits declined from $11.1 billion, or 12 percent of total average deposits, in 2013 to $9.0 billion, or 10 percent of total average deposits in 2014. Meanwhile, average non-interest bearing customer deposits increased from $29.6 billion in 2013 to $31.1 billion in 2014. Net interest margin was also supported by a favorable shift of funding to customer deposits from more costly long-term borrowings. Average long-term borrowings declined to $4.1 billion in 2014 as compared to $5.2 billion in 2013, primarily due to the successful execution of liability management actions. See the "Long-Term Borrowings" section in Management's Discussion and Analysis and Note 12 "Long-Term Borrowings" to these consolidated financial statements for additional information related to these actions.

See also the "Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk" section in Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information.

48

Table of Contents 

Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations” presents a detail of net interest income (on a taxable-equivalent basis), the net interest margin, and the net interest spread.

Table 3—Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

49

Table of Contents 

_______ 

(1)Loans, net of unearned income include non-accrual loans for all periods presented.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)In 2014, approximately $207 million of average IRA account balances and the related interest expense were reclassified from money market to savings. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to current period classification.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5)The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.

(6)The table above does not include average interest-earning assets, average interest-bearing liabilities, interest income, or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). If these assets, liabilities, and net interest income were included in the calculation, the consolidated net interest income and margin on a taxable equivalent basis would have been $3,356 million and 3.10% for the year ended December 31, 2012.

Table 4—Volume and Yield/Rate Variances from Continuing Operations

Table 4 “Volume and Yield/Rate Variances from Continuing Operations” provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______ 

Notes:

•The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.

•The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.

•Prior period amounts for Savings and Money market have been reclassified to conform to current period classification.

The mix of interest-earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions’ primary types of interest-earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest-earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreements to resell. The spread on loans remained depressed in 2014 due to the low interest rate environment and an elevated level of loans on non-accrual status. Average interest-earning assets in 2014 totaled $104.1 billion, an increase of $391 million as compared to the prior year. 

Average loans as a percentage of average interest-earning assets were 73 percent in 2014 and 72 percent in 2013. The remaining categories of interest-earning assets are shown in Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations”. The proportion of average interest-earning assets to average total assets, which was 88 percent in both 2014 and 2013, measures the effectiveness of management’s efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest-earning vehicles. Funding for Regions’ interest-earning assets comes from interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing sources. 

50

Table of Contents 

Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest-earning assets funded by interest-bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest-earning assets funded by average interest-bearing liabilities was 66 percent in 2014 and 68 percent in 2013.

PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in management’s judgment is appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2014, the provision for loan losses totaled $69 million and net charge-offs were $307 million. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $138 million and net charge-offs of $716 million in 2013. Net charge-offs exceeded provision for loan losses for 2014 primarily due to the continued improving credit metrics, including lower levels of non-accrual loans and criticized and classified loans, as well as problem loan resolutions.

For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the "Allowance for Credit Losses" and “Risk Management” sections found later in this report. See also Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

NON-INTEREST INCOME

Table 5—Non-Interest Income from Continuing Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_____

(1) "Card and ATM fees" line item represents the combined amounts of credit card/bank card income and debit card and ATM related revenue. Credit card/bank card income was previously reported as a separate line item. Debit card and ATM related revenue was previously included in the "service charges on deposit accounts" line item. All prior periods presented have been reclassified to conform to this presentation.

Service Charges on Deposit Accounts

Service charges on deposit accounts include non-sufficient fund fees, and other service charges. The decline in 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily driven by continued changes in customer behavior, an $8 million reserve for customer reimbursements recorded in 2014, and the Company's decision to transition out of certain small credit product offerings.

Regions will begin piloting a revision to its posting order process for customer deposit accounts during the first quarter of 2015. The piloting results will be utilized to help develop final posting order process decisions as well as customer communications. Full implementation is not expected until the second half of 2015, and the Company's current modeling estimates the impact will decrease service charges on deposit accounts in the range of $10 million to $15 million per quarter on a pre-tax basis. There are many variables included in the current modeling, including the assumption of a static population as well as numerous overlapping policies such as funds availability, all of which will impact this estimate.

51

Table of Contents 

Card and ATM Fees

Card and ATM fees include the combined amounts of credit card/bank card income and debit card and ATM related revenue. The increase in 2014 compared to 2013 was a result of increased checking accounts, as well as increased transactions driven in part by the continued migration of transactions from cash and checks to cards. Additionally, an increase in active credit cards generated greater purchase activity resulting in higher interchange income.

Investment Management and Trust Fee Income

Investment management and trust fee income represents income from asset management services. In 2013, approximately $12 million of investment management and trust fee income was associated with a non-core portion of a Wealth Management business that was sold in the third quarter of 2013. The sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of $24 million, which is reflected in Table 5 in the "gain on sale of other assets" line item.

Mortgage Income

Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of residential mortgage loans for long-term investors and sales of residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. The decline in mortgage income during 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily driven by lower mortgage production as consumer demand for residential mortgage loans slowed due to rising mortgage interest rates. A decline in the market valuation of the residential mortgage servicing portfolio, net of hedging activity, also contributed to the year-over-year decline.

 At December 31, 2014, $27.7 billion of the residential mortgage servicing portfolio was serviced for third parties compared to $28.5 billion at December 31, 2013. 

Insurance Commissions and Fees

Regions sells property and casualty, life and health, mortgage, and other specialty insurance and credit related products to businesses and individuals. Insurance commissions and fees increased in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to the incremental impact of insurance agency lift outs over the last several years, combined with organic growth in the insurance agency business.

Capital Markets Fee Income and Other 

Capital markets fee income and other primarily relates to activities such as securities underwriting and placement, loan syndications, foreign exchange and customer derivatives. The decrease in these fees during 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily driven by a slowdown in demand for customer derivatives, given the continued low interest rate environment.

Investment Services Fee Income

Investment services fee income represents income earned through investment advisory services. Primary revenue streams include sales of annuity and brokerage products. The increase in investment services fee income during 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily driven by an increase in sales resulting from an increased number of financial consultants. 

Securities Gains, Net

Net securities gains result from the Company's asset/liability management process. See Note 4 "Securities" to the consolidated financial statements for more information.

Leveraged Lease Termination Gains, Net

Regions terminated certain leveraged leases in 2014 and 2013. The related net termination gains were largely offset by increases in income tax expense.

Net Loss From Affordable Housing

Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects. Regions accounts for these investments using the equity method. Net loss from affordable housing represents the Company's equity share of the partnership gains and losses. Net loss from affordable housing increased in 2014 reflecting an increase in investments and the related equity share of partnership losses, as well as, a reduction in gains on sales of investments. 

Beginning in 2015, new accounting guidance allows companies with low income housing tax credit investments to apply a proportional amortization method that would recognize the cost of the investment as a component of income tax expense. Regions intends to adopt this method with its first quarter of 2015 financial reporting. This election will result in an increase to income tax expense and an increase to non-interest income. The cumulative effect to retained earnings (deficit) as of January 1, 2015 of adopting this guidance is estimated to be a reduction in the range of approximately $110 million to $125 million. Refer to Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" for additional information. 

Other Miscellaneous Income

Other miscellaneous income includes fees from safe deposit boxes, check fees and income from assets held for employee benefit purposes, which was the primary driver of the decrease in 2014.

52

Table of Contents 

NON-INTEREST EXPENSE

Table 6—Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______

NM - Not Meaningful

(1)"Professional and legal expenses" and "regulatory charge" line items were combined in 2014. All prior periods presented have been reclassified to conform to this presentation.

Salaries and Employee Benefits

Salaries and employee benefits are comprised of salaries, incentive compensation, long-term incentives, payroll taxes, and other employee benefits such as 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance, as well as, expenses from liabilities held for employee benefit purposes. Salaries and employee benefits were essentially flat in 2014 as compared to 2013. Headcount decreased to 23,723 at December 31, 2014 from 24,255 at December 31, 2013.

Regions adopted new mortality tables and projection scales as of December 31, 2014 for estimating Regions' retirement plan liabilities. The combination of this adoption and a lower discount rate will result in pension related expense increasing by approximately $23 million during 2015.

Net Occupancy Expense

Net occupancy expense includes rent, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Net occupancy expense was essentially flat in 2014 compared to 2013.

Furniture and Equipment Expense

Furniture and equipment expense includes depreciation, maintenance and repairs, rent, taxes and other expenses of equipment utilized by Regions and its affiliates. Furniture and equipment expense increased during 2014 compared to 2013 primarily driven by higher rent, maintenance and repairs during 2014.

Professional, Legal and Regulatory Expenses

Professional, legal and regulatory expenses consist of amounts related to legal, consulting, other professional fees and regulatory charges. In 2013, a non-tax deductible regulatory charge of $58 million was recorded related to previously disclosed inquiries from government authorities. The matter was settled in 2014 for $7 million less than originally estimated and a corresponding recovery was recognized. In the fourth quarter of 2014, $100 million of expense was recorded for contingent legal and regulatory items related to previously disclosed matters.

53

Table of Contents 

Outside Services

Outside services consists of expenses related to routine services provided by third parties, such as contract labor, servicing costs, data processing, loan pricing and research, data license purchases, data subscriptions, and check printing. Outside services increased during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to the use of temporary staffing for compliance and regulatory related projects as well as increased servicing costs related to continued purchases of indirect loans from a third party.

Deposit Administrative Fees

Deposit administrative fees decreased during 2014 when compared to 2013 as a result of continued improvement in performance metrics and a reduction in Regions' risk profile including a decline in higher risk loans, all of which impact the fee calculation. 

Branch Consolidation, Property and Equipment Charges

In 2014, $16 million of branch consolidation charges related to valuation adjustments on owned branch property were recognized. The charges were a result of Regions' decision to consolidate 30 branches in late 2013 and 50 branches in the fourth quarter of 2014. The actual branch closures occur over time, but management's decision to close them results in the recorded charges.

Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt

During 2013, the Company incurred $61 million in losses related to the early extinguishment of certain other long-term debt, the tender or redemption of certain senior debt securities and preferred stock, as well as the redemption of selected trust preferred securities. There were no debt extinguishments in 2014.

Gain on Sale of Troubled Debt Restructurings ("TDRs") Held for Sale, Net

 During the fourth quarter of 2013, Regions transferred approximately $535 million of certain primarily accruing residential first mortgage loans classified as TDRs to loans held for sale. During the first quarter of 2014, substantially all of these loans were sold resulting in a $35 million net gain.

Other Miscellaneous Expenses

Other miscellaneous expenses include expenses related to communications, postage, supplies, certain credit-related costs, foreclosed property expenses and mortgage repurchase costs. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased in 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily due to declines in mortgage repurchase costs reflecting lower losses.

INCOME TAXES

The Company’s income tax expense from continuing operations was $457 million and $452 million for 2014 and 2013, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 28.6 percent and 28.5 percent, respectively. 

The Company’s effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank-owned life insurance and tax-exempt income. Bank-owned life insurance and tax-exempt income are expected to be generally consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period.

Beginning in 2015, new accounting guidance allows companies with affordable housing tax credit investments to apply a proportional amortization method that would recognize the cost of the investment as a component of income tax expense. Regions intends to adopt this method with its first quarter of 2015 financial reporting. This election will result in an increase to income tax expense, and the resulting effective tax rate, and an increase to non-interest income. The cumulative effect to retained earnings (deficit) as of January 1, 2015 of adopting this guidance is estimated to be a reduction in the range of approximately $110 million to $125 million. Refer to Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" for additional information.

 At December 31, 2014, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $367 million, compared to $612 million at December 31, 2013. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset was primarily due to the continued reduction in the allowance for loan losses and the utilization of tax attribute carryforwards.

The Company continually assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets based on an evaluative process that considers all available positive and negative evidence. As part of this evaluative process, the Company considers the following sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax-planning strategies. In making a conclusion, the Company has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of evidence impacting the Company's judgment regarding the realization of its deferred tax assets are summarized below.

•History of earnings—In 2014, the Company has continued its positive earnings trend with positive earnings in 2014, 2013 and 2012. The Company has utilized all federal net operating losses and in 2014, utilized its remaining federal tax credit carryforwards. There is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused.

54

Table of Contents 

•Reversals of taxable temporary differences—The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in a prior business combination, can absorb up to approximately $714 million of deferred tax assets.

•Creation of future taxable income—The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences.

•Ability to implement tax-planning strategies—The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies such as asset sales to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets.

Based on this evaluative process, the Company has established a valuation allowance in the amount of $32 million at December 31, 2014 and $36 million at December 31, 2013 because the Company believes that a portion of the state net operating loss carryforwards and state tax credit carryforwards will not be utilized. The decrease of $4 million is principally due to the Company’s determination that certain state net operating loss carryforwards are more likely than not to be realized.

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 19 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Morgan Keegan was sold on April 2, 2012. Regions' results from discontinued operations are presented in Note 3 "Discontinued Operations" to the consolidated financial statements. During 2014, income from discontinued operations reflects further reductions in the indemnification liability based on updated assumptions, as well as insurance proceeds recognized. During 2013, the loss from discontinued operations was primarily due to higher professional and legal expenses. 

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

The following sections provide expanded discussion of significant changes in certain line items in asset, liability, and equity categories. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents

At December 31, 2014, cash and cash equivalents totaled $4.0 billion as compared to $5.3 billion at December 31, 2013. The year-over-year decrease was driven by a decrease in interest-bearing deposits in other banks as a result of normal day-to-day operating variations. 

Securities

Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. 

The “Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk” and "Liquidity Risk" sections, found later in this report, further explain Regions’ interest rate and liquidity risk management practices. The weighted-average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 2.58 percent in 2014 and 2.65 percent in 2013. Table 7 “Securities” details the carrying values of securities, including both available for sale and held to maturity.

Table 7—Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Regions maintains a highly rated securities portfolio consisting primarily of agency mortgage-backed securities. The securities at December 31, 2014 increased $917 million from year-end 2013 primarily due to market rate improvements in the fair value of the available for sale securities portfolio as well as additional portfolio purchases. 

55

Table of Contents 

Maturity Analysis—The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2014 was estimated to be 5.0 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 5.0 years, with a duration of approximately 4.0 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2013. Table 8 “Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities” provides additional details.

Table 8—Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table.

(2)The weighted-average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted-average yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a taxable-equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Average tax-exempt securities were maintained at such a small balance in 2014 that the taxable-equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to zero for the year ended December 31, 2014. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non-deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax-exempt obligations.

Portfolio Quality—Regions’ investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 92 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2014. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented approximately 8 percent of total securities at year-end 2014.

Loans Held For Sale

At December 31, 2014, loans held for sale totaled $541 million, consisting primarily of $442 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $61 million of commercial mortgage loans in the process of being sold to Fannie Mae through Regions' Fannie Mae Delegated Underwriting and Servicing ("DUS") program, and $38 million of non-performing loans. At December 31, 2013, loans held for sale totaled $1.1 billion, consisting primarily of $963 million of residential real estate mortgage loans and $82 million of non-performing loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties.

During the fourth quarter of 2013, Regions transferred certain primarily accruing residential first mortgage loans classified as troubled debt restructurings ("TDRs") to loans held for sale. The book value of these loans was approximately $686 million and they were transferred into loans held for sale at the estimated fair value of $535 million with the $151 million difference reflected as a charge-off. Substantially all of the TDR loans held for sale were sold in the first quarter of 2014. Refer to the "Non-Interest Expense" section in the "Operating Results" section of this report for further discussion regarding the subsequent sale of these TDR loans.

Loans

GENERAL

Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 73 percent of average interest-earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to 72 percent for the year ended December 31, 2013. Lending at Regions is generally organized 

56

Table of Contents 

along three portfolio segments: commercial loans (including commercial and industrial, and owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans).

Table 9 illustrates a year-over-year comparison of loans, net of unearned income, by portfolio segment and class and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities.

Table 9—Loan Portfolio 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table 10—Selected Loan Maturities 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1) Excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans.

(2) Excludes $132 million of small business credit card accounts.

Loans, net of unearned income, totaled $77.3 billion at December 31, 2014, an increase of $2.7 billion from year-end 2013 levels. Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk-adjusted return on capital. Strategic decisions to grow the commercial and industrial portfolios through the Company's specialized lending groups and the indirect automobile 

57

Table of Contents 

lending portfolios, as well as increases in commercial investor real estate construction, were the primary contributors to the increase in loans in 2014. The increase was partially offset by continued decreases in commercial investor real estate mortgage and the lower demand for home equity products. Management’s expectation for 2015 end of period loan growth is in the 4 percent to 6 percent range.

PORTFOLIO CHARACTERISTICS

The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes disclosed in Table 9, explain variances in balances from the 2013 year-end, and highlight the related risk characteristics. Regions believes that its loan portfolio is well diversified by product, client, and geography throughout its footprint. However, the loan portfolio may be exposed to certain concentrations of credit risk which exist in relation to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers, certain types of collateral, certain types of industries, certain loan products, or certain regions of the country. See Note 5 “Loans” and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion.

Commercial

The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial and industrial loans increased $3.3 billion or 11 percent since year-end 2013 due to Regions’ integrated approach to specialized lending. Commercial also includes owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgage loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long-term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. These loans declined $1.2 billion or 13 percent from year-end 2013 as a result of continued customer deleveraging. Owner-occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2014, total commercial loan balances increased approximately $2.2 billion, or 6 percent. 

The commercial portfolio segment has generated the majority of the Company's loan growth in 2014, particularly commercial and industrial loans. The commercial portfolio segment comprised approximately 54 percent of total loans at December 31, 2014, compared to 53 percent at December 31, 2013. 

The following table provides detail of Regions' commercial lending balances in selected industries as of December 31:

Table 11—Selected Industry Balances 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

58

Table of Contents 

________

(1)As customers' businesses evolve (e.g. up or down the vertical manufacturing chain), Regions may need to change the assigned business industry code used to define the customer relationship. When these changes occur, Regions does not recast the customer history for prior periods into the new classification because the business industry code used in the prior period was deemed appropriate. As a result, year over year changes may be impacted.

(2)Regions' definition of indirect energy-related lending includes certain balances within each of these selected industry categories. As of December 31, 2014, total indirect energy-related lending was approximately $500 million.

In 2014, Regions experienced loan growth in most industry classifications compared to a year ago. The most significant growth occurred in the energy industry with year over year growth of $775 million or 37 percent. This industry represented 6.9 percent and 5.3 percent of total commercial lending at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The increases in real estate and energy represented 60 percent of the overall commercial lending growth in 2014. This was partially offset by decreases in the healthcare, administrative, support, waste and repair, as well as, professional, scientific and technical services portfolios. 

Beginning late in 2014, oil prices began declining and Regions has been monitoring the prices for both direct and indirect impacts on its energy lending portfolio. As shown in Table 11, Regions’ energy industry loan balances at December 31, 2014 were approximately $2.8 billion. This amount is comprised of loans directly related to energy, such as oilfield services, exploration and production, and pipeline transportation of gas and crude oil. Other types of lending are tangentially impacted by the energy portfolio, such as petroleum wholesalers, oil and gas equipment manufacturing, air transportation, and petroleum bulk stations and terminals. The entire energy-related portfolio, combining direct and indirect exposures, was approximately $3.4 billion at December 31, 2014. These loans are geographically concentrated primarily in Texas and, to a lesser extent, in South Louisiana. Regions employs a variety of risk management strategies, including the use of concentration limits and continuous monitoring, as well as utilizing underwriting with borrowing base structures tied to energy commodity reserve bases or other tangible assets. Regions also employs experienced lending and underwriting teams including petroleum engineers, all with extensive energy sector experience through multiple economic cycles. If the current low level of oil prices continues, this energy-related portfolio may be subject to additional pressure on credit quality metrics including past due, criticized, and non-performing loans, as well as net charge-offs.

Investor Real Estate

Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions’ investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single-family and condominium loans) within Regions’ markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income-producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan portfolio leveled out in 2014 with a modest $63 million increase over 2013 year-end balances.

Due to the nature of the cash flows typically used to repay investor real estate loans, these loans are particularly vulnerable to weak economic conditions. As a result, this loan type has a higher risk of non-collection than other loans. 

The Company has made considerable efforts to de-risk its balance sheet. A primary focus has been reducing the Company's exposure in the investor real estate portfolio. Total investor real estate loans represented approximately 24 percent of total loans at December 31, 2008, and has been actively managed down to approximately 9 percent of total loans at December 31, 2014. Investor real estate lending remains an important part of the Company's lending strategy based on its market presence in the southeast United States; however, strict underwriting requirements and exposure limits will be maintained.

Residential First Mortgage

Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $152 million or 1 percent increase from year-end 2013, as prepayments have slowed. Approximately $375 million of 10 and 15-year fixed-rate loans were retained on the balance sheet during 2014.

Home Equity

The home equity portfolio totaled $10.9 billion at December 31, 2014 as compared to $11.3 billion at December 31, 2013. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. 

59

Table of Contents 

The following table presents information regarding the future principal payment reset dates for the Company's home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2014. The balances presented are based on maturity date for lines with a balloon payment and draw period expiration date for lines that convert to a repayment period.

Table 12—Home Equity Lines of Credit-Future Principal Payment Resets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Of the $10.9 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2014, approximately $8.5 billion were home equity lines of credit and $2.4 billion were closed-end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Beginning in May 2009, new home equity lines of credit have a 10-year draw period and a 10-year repayment period. Previously, home equity lines of credit had a 20-year term with a balloon payment upon maturity or a 5-year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term “balloon payment” means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest-only lines of credit. As of December 31, 2014, none of Regions' home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. As presented in the table above, the majority of home equity lines of credit will either mature with a balloon payment or convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020.

Of the $8.5 billion of home equity lines of credit at December 31, 2014, approximately 91 percent require monthly interest-only payments while the remaining approximately 9 percent require a payment equal to 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance, which would include some principal repayment. At December 31, 2014, approximately 30 percent of borrowers were only paying the minimum amount due on their home equity line. In addition, approximately 59 percent of home equity lines of credit balances have the option to amortize either all or a portion of their balance. At December 31, 2014, approximately $270 million of home equity line of credit balances have elected this option.

Regions is unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution. When Regions’ second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, Regions does not continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. Short sale offers and settlement agreements are often received by the home equity junior lien holders well before the loan balance reaches the delinquency threshold for charge-off consideration, potentially resulting in a full balance payoff/charge-off. Regions is presently monitoring the status of all first lien position loans that the Company owns or services and has a second lien, and is taking appropriate action when delinquent. Regions services the first lien on approximately 24 percent of the entire second lien home equity portfolio as of December 31, 2014. 

Other Consumer Credit Quality Data

The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both home equity and residential first mortgage lending products (“current LTV”). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by a third party. The third party data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSAs”). Regions uses the third party valuation trends from the MSAs in the Company's footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area.

The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential first mortgage and home equity classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for the remaining loans in the portfolio is not available, primarily because some of the loans are serviced by others. Data may also not be available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. For purposes of the table below, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral, the entire balance is included in the “Above 100%” category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. The balances in the "Above 100%" category as a percentage of the portfolio balances decreased from 6 percent to 4 percent in the residential first mortgage portfolio and from 13 percent to 8 percent in the home equity portfolio when comparing December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014, respectively. 

60

Table of Contents 

Table 13—Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Indirect

Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third-party business partners, largely consists of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class increased $567 million from year-end 2013, reflecting continued growing demand for automobile loans.

Consumer Credit Card

Consumer credit card lending represents primarily open-ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. These balances increased $61 million during 2014.

Other Consumer

Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving loans. Other consumer loans increased $33 million during 2014.

Regions qualitatively considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of Regions' formal underwriting process. Refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for all revolving accounts and home equity lines of credit and semi-annually for all other consumer loans. The following tables present estimated current FICO score data for components of classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current FICO data is not available for the remaining loans in the portfolio for various reasons; for example, if customers do not use sufficient credit, an updated score may not be available. Residential first mortgage and home equity balances with FICO scores below 620 declined to 6 percent of the combined portfolios for December 31, 2014, down 1 percent from December 31, 2013.

Table 14—Estimated Current FICO Score Ranges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

61

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses ("allowance") consists of two components: the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. The allowance represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of period end. Regions determines its allowance in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Additional discussion of the methodology used to calculate the allowance is included in Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements, as well as related discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

The allowance for loan losses totaled $1.1 billion at December 31, 2014 and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of net loans was 1.43 percent at December 31, 2014 and 1.80 percent at December 31, 2013. The reserve for unfunded credit commitments was $65 million at December 31, 2014 compared to $78 million at December 31, 2013. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans were 0.40 percent and 0.96 percent in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Net charge-offs were lower across most categories primarily due to fundamental improvement in credit performance. Net charge-offs for residential first mortgage included $151 million related to the transfer of primarily accruing loans classified as troubled debt restructurings to held for sale late in 2013. 

Management considers the current level of the allowance appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios. Management’s determination of the appropriateness of the allowance requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance to be increased or decreased in future periods. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates.

Management expects that net loan charge-offs in 2015 will decline somewhat compared with those experienced in 2014; however, economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates, unemployment and volatility in commodity prices will impact the future levels of net charge-offs and provision and may result in volatility during 2015. Additionally, changes in circumstances related to individually large credits or certain portfolios may result in volatility. Details regarding the allowance and net charge-offs, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s totals, are included in Table 15 “Allowance for Credit Losses.”

62

Table of Contents 

The table below summarizes activity in the allowance for credit losses for the years ended December 31:

Table 15—Allowance for Credit Losses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

63

Table of Contents 

Allocation of the allowance for loan losses by portfolio segment and class is summarized as follows:

Table 16—Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs) 

TDRs are modified loans in which a concession is provided to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the Customer Assistance Program ("CAP"). Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. Renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, if the existing terms are considered to be below market.

More detailed information regarding Regions’ TDRs is included in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes the loan balance and related allowance for accruing and non-accruing TDRs for the periods ending December 31:

64

Table of Contents 

Table 17—Troubled Debt Restructurings 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

Note: All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. The majority of TDRs held for sale at December 31, 2013 were comprised of residential first mortgage loans transferred during the fourth quarter.

The following table provides an analysis of the changes in commercial and investor real estate TDRs. Loans that may be modified more than once are reported as TDR inflows only in the period they are first modified. Other than resolutions such as charge-offs, foreclosures, sales and transfers to held for sale, Regions may remove loans held for investment from TDR classification, but only if the borrower's financial condition improves such that the borrower is no longer in financial difficulty, the loan has not had any forgiveness of principal or interest, and the loan is subsequently refinanced or restructured at market terms and qualifies as a new loan.

A refinancing or restructuring of a TDR occurs when either the loan matures according to the terms of the TDR loan agreement or the borrower requests a change to the loan agreement. At that time, the borrower is evaluated through a new underwriting process to determine if it is creditworthy. It is subjected to the normal underwriting standards and processes for other loans with similar risk profiles. 

For the commercial and investor real estate portfolios, if the borrower is considered to still be experiencing financial difficulties (as designated internally by a risk rating of substandard accruing or worse), any renewal would continue to be classified as a TDR. However, if the borrower is considered to no longer be experiencing financial difficulty and the terms of the new loan resulting from the refinancing or restructuring are at least as favorable as the terms for the comparable loans to other customers with similar collection risks, the refinanced loan is accounted for as a new loan, which supports removal of TDR status. Typically the changes between the previously identified TDR agreement and the renewal are reflective of market interest rates and market amortization schedules, additional collateral, or additional or secured guarantees to be consistent with market terms similar to that of borrowers with similar collection risk. 

65

Table of Contents 

For the consumer portfolio, changes in TDRs are primarily due to inflows from CAP modifications and outflows from payments and charge-offs. Given the types of concessions currently being granted under the CAP, as detailed in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements, Regions does not expect that the market interest rate condition will be widely achieved. Therefore, Regions expects consumer loans modified through CAP to continue to be identified as TDRs for the remaining term of the loan.

Table 18—Analysis of Changes in Commercial and Investor Real Estate TDRs 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

_________

(1) The majority of this category consists of payments and sales. "Other" outflows include normal amortization/accretion of loan basis adjustments and loans transferred to held for sale. It also includes $105 million of commercial loans and $60 million of investor real estate loans refinanced or restructured as new loans and removed from TDR classification during 2014. No loans were removed from TDR classification in 2013 as a result of being refinanced or restructured as new loans.

66

Table of Contents 

NON-PERFORMING ASSETS

The following table presents non-performing assets as of December 31: 

Table 19—Non-Performing Assets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)Excludes accruing loans 90 days past due.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-performing assets totaled $991 million at December 31, 2014, compared to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013. Foreclosed properties, a subset of non-performing assets, totaled $124 million and $136 million at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively. The decrease in non-performing assets and foreclosed properties during 2014 reflects the Company’s continuing efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures.

67

Table of Contents 

Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates non-performing assets to continue to improve in 2015 as compared to 2014. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates, unemployment and volatility in commodity prices will impact the future level of non-performing assets. Circumstances related to individually large credits could also result in volatility throughout 2015.

Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing, excluding government guaranteed loans, were $222 million at December 31, 2014, a decrease from $256 million at December 31, 2013.

At December 31, 2014, Regions had approximately $125 million to $200 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non-accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. This is a likely estimate of the amount of commercial and investor real estate loans that may migrate to non-accrual status in the next quarter.

In order to arrive at the estimate of potential problem loans, personnel from geographic regions forecast certain larger dollar loans that may potentially be downgraded to non-accrual at a future time, depending on the occurrence of future events. These personnel consider a variety of factors, including the borrower’s capacity and willingness to meet the contractual repayment terms, make principal curtailments or provide additional collateral when necessary, and provide current and complete financial information including global cash flows, contingent liabilities and sources of liquidity. Based upon the consideration of these factors a probability weighting is assigned to loans to reflect the potential for migration to the pool of potential problem loans during this specific time period. Additionally, for other loans (for example, smaller dollar loans), a trend analysis is incorporated to determine the estimate of potential future downgrades. Because of the inherent uncertainty in forecasting future events, the estimate of potential problem loans ultimately represents the estimated aggregate dollar amounts of loans as opposed to an individual listing of loans.

The majority of the loans on which the potential problem loan estimate is based are considered criticized and classified. Detailed disclosures for substandard accrual loans (as well as other credit quality metrics) are included in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

The following table provides an analysis of non-accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment for the years ended December 31: 

Table 20—Analysis of Non-Accrual Loans

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

68

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________

(1)All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale (including related charge-offs) is included as a single net number within the additions line.

(2)Includes charge-offs on loans on non-accrual status and charge-offs taken upon sale and transfer of non-accrual loans to held for sale.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table provides an analysis of non-performing loans held for sale for the years ended December 31:

Table 21—Non-Performing Loans Held For Sale

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For additional discussion, see Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

Premises and Equipment

Premises and equipment at December 31, 2014 decreased $23 million to $2.2 billion compared to year-end 2013. This decrease primarily resulted from depreciation expense on existing assets.

Goodwill

Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at both December 31, 2014 and 2013 and was reallocated to the new reporting units during 2014. Refer to the “Critical Accounting Policies” section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Company’s methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 9 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test and further details on the reallocation. Additionally, Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements includes information related to the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such measurements, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment.

Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights

Residential mortgage servicing rights decreased approximately $40 million from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014. The year-over-year decrease reflects a decline in the market valuation of the servicing asset. An analysis of residential mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 7 “Servicing of Financial Assets” to the consolidated financial statements. 

Foreclosed Properties

Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in foreclosure are reported at the lower of the investment in the loan or fair value of the property less estimated costs to sell. The following table summarizes foreclosed property activity for the years ended December 31:

69

Table of Contents 

Table 22—Foreclosed Properties

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

Note: Approximately 75 percent and 76 percent of the ending balances at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, relate to properties transferred into foreclosed properties during the corresponding calendar year.

Valuation adjustments are primarily recorded in other non-interest expense; adjustments are also recorded as a charge to the allowance for loan losses if incurred within 60 days after the date of transfer from loans. Valuation adjustments are primarily the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to estimated fair value less costs to sell after these assets have been classified as foreclosed properties. Foreclosed property sold represents the net book value of the properties sold.

Other Assets

Other assets increased $323 million to $6.2 billion as of December 31, 2014. Additional investments in bank-owned life insurance and affordable housing, as well as increases in customer acceptances and gains due to differences between settlement and trade date accounting primarily drove the increase. These increases were partially offset by lower deferred income taxes and derivative assets, as well as the Company not being in an asset position related to its qualified benefit plans at the end of 2014 (see Note 17 "Employee Benefit Plans" for further details).

Deposits

Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions’ ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers’ needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high-quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking.

Deposits are Regions’ primary source of funds, providing funding for 90 percent of average interest-earning assets in 2014 and 89 percent of average interest-earning assets in 2013. Table 23 “Deposits” details year-over-year deposits on a period-ending basis. Total deposits at December 31, 2014 increased approximately $1.7 billion compared to year-end 2013 levels. The increase in deposits was primarily driven by increases in non-interest-bearing demand, savings, and interest-bearing transaction accounts. These increases were partially offset by continued declines in time deposits.

Due to liquidity in the market, Regions has been able to steadily grow its low-cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 30 basis points in 2012 to 15 basis points in 2013 and to 11 basis points in 2014. The following table summarizes deposits by category as of December 31:

Table 23—Deposits

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)In the fourth quarter of 2014, approximately $219 million of period end IRA account balances were reclassified from money market to savings. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period classification.

70

Table of Contents 

Within customer deposits, non-interest-bearing demand deposits increased $1.7 billion to $31.7 billion. Non-interest-bearing deposits accounted for approximately 34 percent of total deposits at year-end 2014 compared to 33 percent at year-end 2013. Savings balances increased $403 million to $6.7 billion, generally reflecting continued consumer savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Interest-bearing transaction accounts increased $755 million to $21.5 billion. Interest-bearing transaction deposits accounted for approximately 23 percent of total deposits at year-end 2014 and 2013.

Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions’ most significant funding sources. These balances accounted for 27 percent of total deposits in 2014, compared to 28 percent in 2013.

Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 11 percent in 2014 to $8.6 billion compared to $9.6 billion in 2013. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of the continued decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 9 percent of total deposits in 2014 compared to 10 percent in 2013. See Table 24 “Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More” for maturity information.

Consistent with 2013, corporate treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2014 as the Company continued to utilize customer-based funding and other sources. The Company’s choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Company’s particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source.

The sensitivity of Regions’ deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions’ average interest rate paid on interest-bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest-bearing deposits decreased to 0.17 percent in 2014 from 0.21 percent in 2013, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower cost customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout much of 2014. 

Table 24—Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Short-Term Borrowings

See Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2014 and 2013. The levels of these borrowings can fluctuate depending on the Company’s funding needs and the sources utilized, as well as a result of customers’ activity. 

Company Funding Sources

In the near term, Regions expects the use of wholesale unsecured borrowings, such as Federal funds purchased, to remain low. Short-term secured borrowings, such as securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") advances, are a core portion of Regions funding strategy and can fluctuate significantly on a day-to-day basis, depending on funding needs and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. 

Regions has taken an approach to maintain higher levels of cash at the Federal Reserve Bank. These higher levels of cash negate the need to occasionally borrow short-term funds to cover normal monthly cash flow needs. The securities financing market and short-term FHLB advances, however, continue to provide reliable funding at attractive rates. See the "Liquidity Risk" section for further detail of Regions' borrowing capacity with the FHLB.

Customer-Related Borrowings

Repurchase agreements are also offered as short-term investment opportunities for commercial banking customers. Regions Bank does not manage the level of these investments on a daily basis as the transactions are initiated by the customers. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day-to-day basis.

As a result of Regions' work toward compliance with the new Liquidity Coverage Ratio, repurchase agreements will no longer be offered to customers beginning in 2015. The existing product and balances will be phased out primarily over the first quarter of 2015. Customers' balances could remain in interest-bearing transaction or money market deposit accounts going forward. See the "Liquidity Coverage Ratio" discussion within the "Regulatory Capital Requirements" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information.

71

Table of Contents 

Long-Term Borrowings

Total long-term borrowings decreased $1.4 billion to $3.5 billion at December 31, 2014. The decrease between years was primarily the result of a $1.0 billion decrease in FHLB advances as a result of maturities, as well as approximately $350 million in maturities of senior notes at the Parent. See Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates.

Other Liabilities

Other liabilities increased $612 million to $2.8 billion as of December 31, 2014. The increase was primarily driven by higher derivative liabilities, increased employee benefit costs related to qualified plans (see Note 17 "Employee Benefit Plans" for further details), higher customer acceptances and increased other accrued expenses. These increases were offset by a decrease in the indemnification obligation related to the sale of Morgan Keegan (see Note 23 "Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees" for further details).

Ratings

Table 25 “Credit Ratings” reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by Standard and Poor's ("S&P"), Moody’s, Fitch and Dominion Bond Rating Service ("DBRS") as of December 31, 2014 and 2013.

Table 25—Credit Ratings 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)S&P does not provide a rating for Long-term bank deposits therefore the rating is N/A.

In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions’ access to the capital markets or short-term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, and funding of variable rate demand notes ("VRDNs"), thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions’ financial condition and liquidity. See the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.

On September 30, 2014, Moody’s revised the rating outlook of Regions Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries, including its lead bank, Regions Bank, to positive from stable and affirmed existing ratings. The change in outlook is attributable to continued improvement in asset quality and capital levels as well as enhanced risk management surrounding asset concentration limits. 

72

Table of Contents 

On October 7, 2014, Fitch Ratings upgraded the long-term, short-term and subordinated debt ratings of both Regions Bank and Regions Financial Corporation to ‘BBB’ from ‘BBB-’, to ‘F2’ from ‘F3’ and to ‘BBB-’ from ‘BB+’, respectively. Fitch Ratings also upgraded the long-term bank deposits for Regions Bank to ‘BBB+’ from ‘BBB’. Additionally, the Rating Outlook for both the Bank and Holding company were revised to Stable from Positive. The upgrade was supported by asset quality improvement, a strong capital profile and liquidity position, and a generally recovering overall risk position. 

On November 20, 2014, S&P raised the long-term issuer ratings of Regions Financial Corporation to ‘BBB’ from ‘BBB-’. In addition to upgrading Regions Financial Corporation's long-term issuer ratings, S&P raised Regions Bank's long-term issuer rating to ‘BBB+’ from ‘BBB’ and affirmed the short-term rating at ‘A2’. S&P also raised the subordinated debt ratings of both Regions Bank and Regions Financial Corporation to ‘BBB’ from ‘BBB-’ and to ‘BBB-’ from ‘BB+’, respectively. At the same time, the Rating Outlook for both Regions Bank and Regions Financial Corporation were revised to Stable from Positive. The upgrade reflects the decline in problem loans, including TDRs, as well as the build-up of capital ratios.

On December 18, 2014, DBRS upgraded Regions Bank's short-term debt ratings to ‘R-1L’ from ‘R-2H’. The change in ratings follows a detailed review of the Company's operating results, financial fundamentals and future prospects performed by DBRS. The results of the review reflected Regions Financial Corporation's sustained progress in improving funding and liquidity over time thus resulting in an upgrade of short-term debt ratings for the Company's primary banking subsidiary.

A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

Stockholders' Equity

Stockholders’ equity was $16.9 billion at December 31, 2014 compared to $15.8 billion at December 31, 2013. During 2014, net income increased stockholders’ equity by $1.2 billion and a preferred stock issuance increased equity by $486 million, while shares repurchased reduced equity by $256 million, cash dividends on common stock reduced equity by $247 million and cash dividends on preferred stock reduced equity by $52 million. Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income increased equity by $81 million, primarily due to the net change in the value of available for sale securities.

As part of its 2013 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR") submission, Regions' Board of Directors approved an increase to its quarterly common stock dividend as well as up to $350 million in common share repurchases. As of December 31, 2013, Regions had repurchased approximately 36 million shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $340 million under this plan. The Company closed out this repurchase plan in the first quarter of 2014, repurchasing an additional approximate 1 million shares at a total cost of approximately $8 million. These shares were immediately retired upon repurchase and therefore are not included in treasury stock.

As part of its 2014 CCAR submission, Regions' Board of Directors approved the issuance of $500 million of the Company's 6.375% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, an additional increase to its quarterly common stock dividend, as well as, an additional common stock repurchase plan up to $350 million. Net proceeds from the Series B preferred stock issuance increased equity by approximately $486 million. As of December 31, 2014, Regions had repurchased approximately 25 million shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $248 million under the approved share repurchase plan. The Company continued to repurchase shares under this plan in the first quarter of 2015 and concluded the plan in February of 2015 with the repurchase of approximately 11 million shares at a total cost of approximately $102 million. These shares were immediately retired upon repurchase and therefore are not included in treasury stock.

Regions increased its annual dividend to $0.18 per common share for 2014, compared to $0.10 per common share for 2013 and $0.04 per common share for 2012. Because the Company was in a retained deficit position, the common stock dividends were recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in-capital. Management will continue to execute the capital planning process, including evaluation of the amount of the common stock dividend, with the Board of Directors and in conjunction with regulatory supervisors, subject to the Company’s results of operations.

Total cash dividends on preferred stock reduced equity by $52 million in 2014 and $32 million in 2013. Because the Company was in a retained deficit position, preferred dividends were recorded as a reduction of preferred stock, including related surplus.

See Note 14 “Stockholders’ Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)” for additional information.

REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 

CURRENT CAPITAL RULES

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Company’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure. See Note 13 "Regulatory Capital Requirements" for tabular presentation of the applicable holding company and bank regulatory capital requirements.

73

Table of Contents 

In recent years, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. This measure has been a key component of assessments of capital adequacy under the CCAR process. While not currently prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations (under Basel I), analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions’ capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders’ equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations (under Basel I), these measures are currently considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System assesses banks' capital levels in periods of stress against a minimum Tier 1 common (non-GAAP) capital level of 5 percent.

BASEL III AND THE FINAL RULES 

In July 2013, Regions' and Regions Bank's primary federal regulator, the Federal Reserve, published final rules establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. The Final Rules implement the Basel Committee's December 2010 framework known as “Basel III” for strengthening international capital standards as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Final Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and depository institutions, including the Company and the Bank, compared to the current U.S. risk-based capital rules. The Final Rules define the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios. The Final Rules also address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing risk-weighting approach, which was derived from Basel I capital accords of the Basel Committee, with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the standardized approach in the Basel Committee's 2004 “Basel II” capital accords. The Final Rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal banking agencies' rules. The Final Rules were effective for Regions and Regions Bank on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period).

The Final Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a Final measure called “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”), (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consist of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments to capital as compared to existing regulations.

Under the Final Rules, the initial minimum capital ratios, as applicable to Regions, as of January 1, 2015 are as follows:

•4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets.

•6.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets.

•8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.

The Final Rules also introduce a new capital conservation buffer designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. The capital conservation buffer is composed entirely of CET1, on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. In addition, the Final Rules provide for a countercyclical capital buffer applicable only to certain covered institutions. It is not expected that the countercyclical capital buffer will be applicable to Regions or Regions Bank. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the Final Rules will require Regions and Regions Bank to maintain such additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1 to risk-weighted assets, effectively resulting in minimum ratios of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%, and (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%.

The Final Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Under current capital standards, the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income items included in capital are excluded for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. Under the Final Rules, the effects of certain accumulated other comprehensive items are not excluded; however, non-advanced approaches banking organizations, including Regions and Regions Bank, may elect to continue to exclude these items. Regions and Regions Bank expect to make this election in order to avoid significant volatility in the level of capital depending upon the impact of interest rate fluctuations on the fair value of its securities portfolio. The Final Rules also preclude certain hybrid securities, such as trust preferred securities, as Tier 1 capital of bank holding companies, subject to phase-out. As of December 31, 2014, Regions did not have any hybrid securities subject to disallowance.

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 began on January 1, 2015 and will be phased-in over a 4-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter). The implementation of the capital 

74

Table of Contents 

conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and be phased in over a 4-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).

With respect to Regions Bank, the Final Rules also revise the “prompt corrective action” regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by (i) introducing a CET1 ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the current 6%); and (iii) eliminating the current provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized. The Final Rules do not change the total risk-based capital requirement for any “prompt corrective action” category.

The Final Rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weightings that expands the risk-weighting categories from the current four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. Specific changes to current rules impacting Regions' determination of risk-weighted assets include, among other things:

•Applying a 150% risk weight instead of a 100% risk weight for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans.

•Assigning a 150% risk weight to exposures (other than secured exposures including residential mortgage exposures) that are 90 days or more past due (currently set at 100%).

•Providing for a 20% credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of less than one year that is not unconditionally cancellable (currently set at 0%). 

•Providing for a risk weight, generally not less than 20% with certain exceptions, for securities lending transactions based on the risk weight category of the underlying collateral securing the transaction (currently set at between 20% and 100% for on balance sheet transactions).

•Providing for a 100% risk weight for claims on securities firms (currently set at 20%).

•Eliminating the current 50% cap on the risk weight for over-the-counter derivative exposures.

•Replacing the existing Ratings Based Approach for certain asset-backed securities with a Simplified Supervisory Formula Approach ("SSFA") which results in risk weights ranging from 20% to 1,250%.

•Applying a 250% risk weight to the portion of mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are includible in capital (currently set at 100%).

In addition, the Final Rules also provide more advantageous risk weights for derivatives and repurchase-style transactions cleared through a qualifying central counterparty and increase the scope of eligible guarantors and eligible collateral for purposes of credit risk mitigation. As of December 31, 2014, the increase in Regions' Basel III risk-weighted assets versus risk-weighted assets as calculated under Basel I was due primarily to:

•Applying a 150% risk weight to high volatility commercial real estate exposures.

•Applying a 20% conversion factor to the unused portion of commitments of less than one year.

•Applying a 250% risk weight to the portion of mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are includible in capital.

The Final Rules do not address the proposed Liquidity Coverage Ratio Test and Net Stable Funding Ratio Test called for by the proposed Basel III framework. See the "Supervision and Regulation -- Capital Requirements -- Leverage Requirements" subsection of the "Business" sections for more information on these proposed requirements.

Regions continues to evaluate the impact of the final U.S. rules implementing Basel III. The Company’s estimated CET1 ratio as of December 31, 2014, based on Regions’ current interpretation of the final Basel III requirements was approximately 11.00% and therefore exceeded the Basel III minimum of 7 percent for CET1. Because the Basel III capital calculations will not be fully phased-in until 2019, are not formally defined by GAAP, and because the calculations currently include the Company's interpretations of the requirements including informal feedback received through the regulatory process and are therefore likely to change as clarifying guidance becomes available, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further details).

75

Table of Contents 

LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO ("LCR")

On October 24, 2013, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"), and the FDIC released an NPR ("notice of proposed rulemaking") proposing a quantitative liquidity requirement, including a "modified" LCR that will apply to banks including Regions, that are not internationally active and are between $50 billion and $250 billion in assets. 

On September 3, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC released the final version of the LCR, which requires modified LCR banks to hold high-quality liquid assets sufficient to cover 70 percent of projected net cash outflows under a prescribed 30-day liquidity stress scenario. The implementation date was delayed for modified LCR banks until January 2016, and the daily reporting requirement was replaced with a monthly reporting structure. In 2016, the minimum phased-in requirement will be 90 percent, followed by full 100 percent compliance in January 2017. The Company anticipates being fully compliant with the LCR requirements upon implementation without having to make any significant changes to its current balance sheet. However, should Regions’ cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions’ ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. 

See the “Supervision and Regulation—Capital Requirements” subsection of the “Business” section and the “Risk Factors” section for more information.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. See Note 2 “Variable Interest Entities” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.

Regions' off-balance sheet credit risk includes obligations for loans sold with recourse, unfunded loan commitments, and letters of credit. See Note 7 "Servicing of Financial Assets" and Note 23 "Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees" for further discussion.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity-to-assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation.

Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions’ ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the Company’s interest rate positioning. The Company is moderately asset sensitive as of December 31, 2014. Refer to Table 26 “Interest Rate Sensitivity” for additional details on Regions’ interest rate sensitivity.

EFFECTS OF DEFLATION

A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings.

Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions’ ability to maintain a sufficient amount of capital to cushion against future losses. However, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop.

RISK MANAGEMENT

Regions is exposed to various risks as part of the normal course of operations. The exposure to risk requires sound risk management practices that comprise an integrated and comprehensive set of programs and processes that apply to the entire Company. Accordingly, Regions has established a risk management framework to manage risks and provide reasonable assurance of the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives.

The primary risk exposures identified and managed through the Company’s risk management framework are market risk, liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk, legal risk, compliance risk, reputational risk, and strategic risk. 

•Market risk is the risk to Regions’ financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates or equity prices. 

76

Table of Contents 

•Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding (referred to as "funding liquidity risk") or that it cannot easily unwind or offset specific exposures without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions ("market liquidity risk"). 

•Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet a contractual obligation. 

•Operational risk arises from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, fraud or unforeseen catastrophes will result in unexpected losses. 

•Legal risk arises from the potential that lawsuits, adverse judgments or unenforceable contracts can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect the operations or financial condition of the Company. 

•Compliance risk is the risk arising from violations of or non-conformance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures or ethical standards. 

•Reputational risk is the risk from negative publicity, whether or not warranted, that causes a decline in Regions’ customer base or share price or requires Regions to defend its actions to regulatory authorities, individual clients, the media or through the judicial system. 

•Strategic risk is the risk arising from adverse business decisions, improper implementation of decisions or lack of responsiveness to industry changes. 

Several of these primary risk exposures are expanded upon further within the remaining sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis.

Regions’ risk management framework is founded on three pillars, each of which is critical to ensuring that risks are properly identified, assessed, and managed:

Three Lines of Defense - The risk management process spans the entire organization and is divided into three separate lines of defense. Within each line of defense, every associate is accountable for managing risk. The Company emphasizes each associate’s fundamental accountability to the Company’s leadership, customers and shareholders through our policies and procedures. We define the three lines of defense as follows:

•The first line of defense is any department, area or function that is accountable for any of the primary risk exposures listed above and performs one of the following:

◦Engages in activities designed to generate revenue or reduce expenses

◦Provides operational support or servicing to any department, area or function

◦Provides technology services to any department, area or function

The first line of defense identifies, measures, monitors, reports, and controls the risks associated with their daily activities, within the bounds established within the Company’s Risk Appetite Statement. They are responsible for implementing any necessary action plans to strengthen risk management or reduce risk, given changes to their risk profile.

•The second line of defense is any department, area or function that is independent from the first line of defense and has responsibility for identifying, measuring, mitigating, monitoring, and reporting aggregate risks. The second line of defense designs and implements a risk management framework to manage and control the Company’s risk-taking activities that includes well-defined roles and responsibilities for all associates and risk limits established for material activities. It also provides an independent assessment of the Company’s risk-taking activities as well as subject matter expertise and guidance to the first line of defense in highly technical areas such as regulatory compliance.

•The third line of defense is any department, area or function that is independent from the first and second lines of defense and designed to evaluate the adequacy of and compliance with policies, procedures, and processes established by the first and second lines of defense under the risk management framework.

Enterprise Risk Management Governance - Regions has established a corporate governance framework consisting of committees and working groups as well as policies and procedures that outline governing principles and intentions in order to guide associates in the pursuit of the Company’s strategic objectives. The corporate governance framework is collectively charged with identifying, measuring, mitigating, monitoring and reporting risks.

Continuous Improvement Cycle - Regions has established the continuous improvement cycle to drive its associates to targeted risk management levels by ensuring risks are identified, measured, mitigated, monitored and reported.

The Board of Directors provides the highest level of risk management governance. The principal risk management functions of the Board are to oversee processes for evaluating the adequacy of internal controls, risk management, financial reporting and compliance with laws and regulations. The Board has designated an Audit Committee of outside directors to focus on oversight of management's establishment and maintenance of appropriate disclosure controls and procedures over financial reporting. See 

77

Table of Contents 

the "Financial Disclosures and Internal Controls" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information. The Board has also designated a Risk Committee of outside directors to focus on Regions’ overall risk profile. The committee annually approves a Risk Appetite Statement that reflects core business principles and strategic vision by including quantitative limits and qualitative statements that are organized by risk type. This statement is designed to be a high-level document that sets the tone for the Board’s risk appetite, which is the maximum amount of risk the Company is willing to accept in pursuit of its business objectives. By establishing boundaries around risk taking and business decisions, and by incorporating the needs and goals of its shareholders, regulators, customers and other stakeholders, the Company’s risk appetite is aligned with its strategic priorities and goals.

The Risk Management Group, led by the Company’s Chief Risk Officer, ensures the consistent application of Regions’ risk management approach within the structure of the Company’s operating, capital and strategic plans. The primary activities of the Risk Management Group include:

•Deciphering internal and external signals that point to possible risk issues for the Company;

•Identifying risks and determining which Company areas and/or products will be affected;

•Ensuring there are mechanisms in place to specifically determine how risks will affect the Company as a whole and the individual area and or product;

•Assisting business groups in analyzing trends and ensuring Company areas have appropriate risk identification and mitigation processes in place; and

•Reviewing the limits, policies, and procedures in place to ensure the continued appropriateness of risk controls.

As part of its ongoing assessment process, the Risk Management Group makes recommendations to management and the Risk Committee of the Board regarding adjustments to these controls as conditions or risk tolerances change. In addition, the Internal Audit division provides an independent assessment of the Company’s internal control structure and related systems and processes.

Management, with the assistance of the Risk Management Group, follows a formal process for identifying and documenting key risks facing each business group and determining how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, as well as how the controls can be monitored to ensure they are effective. The Risk Committee receives reports from management to ensure operations are within the limits established by the Committee’s Risk Appetite Statement.

Some of the more significant processes used by management to manage and control risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond management’s control may result in losses despite the Risk Management Group’s efforts.

MARKET RISK—INTEREST RATE RISK 

Regions’ primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short-term indicator of Regions’ interest rate risk.

Sensitivity Measurement—Financial simulation models are Regions’ primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions’ balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate-related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the pricing of deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior.

The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on “market forward rates.” The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 50 basis points scenario, as minus 100 and 200 basis scenarios are of limited use in the current rate environment. Up-rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six-month period, and include rate shifts of minus 50 basis points and plus 100 and 200 basis points.

78

Table of Contents 

Exposure to Interest Rate Movements—As of December 31, 2014, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous parallel yield curve shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending December 2015. The estimated exposure associated with the parallel yield curve shift of minus 50 basis points in the table below reflects the combined impacts of movements in short-term and long-term rates. Long-term interest rate reductions will drive yields lower on certain fixed rate loans newly originated or renewed, and on prospective yields of certain investment portfolio purchases, as well as drive higher amortization of premium on existing securities in the investment portfolio. A decline in short-term interest rates (such as the Federal Funds rate and the rate of Interest on Excess Reserves) will lead to a reduction of yield on assets and liabilities contractually tied to such rates, but since rates have been at low levels for such an extended period, it is expected that declines in deposit costs will only partially offset the decline in asset yields. 

Long-term interest rates have recently declined to mid-year 2013 levels after giving up most of the significant increases that occurred later that year. Short-term rates have remained stable. As described above, with respect to sensitivity to long-term rates, the balance sheet is estimated to be moderately asset sensitive. Current simulation models estimate that, as compared to the base case, net interest income over a 12 month horizon would respond favorably by approximately $105 million if long-term rates were to immediately and on a sustained basis exceed the base scenario by 100 basis points. Conversely, if long-term rates were to immediately and on a sustained basis underperform the base case by 50 basis points, then net interest income, as compared to the base case, would decline by approximately $68 million. The table below summarizes Regions' positioning in various parallel yield curve shifts (i.e. including both long-term and short-term interest rates). The scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate risk hedging activities. 

Table 26—Interest Rate Sensitivity 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As discussed above, the interest rate sensitivity analysis presented in Table 26 is informed by a variety of assumptions and estimates regarding the course of the balance sheet in both the baseline scenario as well as the scenarios of instantaneous and gradual shifts in the yield curve. Though there are many assumptions which affect the estimates for net interest income, those pertaining to deposit pricing, deposit mix and overall balance sheet composition are particularly impactful. Given the uncertainties associated with the prolonged period of low interest rates, management evaluates the impact to its sensitivity analysis of these key assumptions. 

The Company’s baseline balance sheet growth assumptions include continued moderate loan and deposit growth with a composition largely reflecting a continuation of recent trends. The behavior of deposits in response to changes in interest rate levels is largely informed by analyses of prior rate cycles, but with suitable adjustments based on management’s expectations in the current rate environment. In the + 200 basis point gradual interest rate change scenario in Table 26, the total cumulative interest bearing deposit re-pricing sensitivity is expected to be approximately 60 percent of changes in short-term market rates (e.g. Federal Funds), as compared to approximately 55 percent in the 2004 to 2007 historical timeframe. A 5 percentage point higher sensitivity than the 60 percent baseline would reduce 12 month net interest income in the gradual +200 basis points scenario by approximately $55 million. 

Similarly, management assumes that the change in the mix of deposits in a rising rate environment versus the baseline balance sheet growth assumptions is informed by analyses of prior rate cycles. Management assumes that in rising rate scenarios, some shift from non-interest bearing to interest-bearing products will occur. The magnitude of the shift is rate dependent, but equates to approximately $3.5 billion over 12 months in the gradual +200 basis point scenario in Table 26. In the event this shift increased by an additional $3.0 billion over 12 months, the result would be a reduction of 12 month net interest income in the gradual +200 basis points scenario by approximately $25 million. Sensitivity calculations are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future results.

Management is optimistic for continued growth in 2015. If economic conditions and interest rates follow a course of moderate increase through 2015, and the Company achieves its targeted range of loan growth, management believes that the net interest 

79

Table of Contents 

margin will remain stable to moderately rising. Alternatively, if rates in 2015 remain at levels prevalent at year-end 2014, management believes the net interest margin will come under modest pressure of approximately 10 to 12 basis points over the course of the year. Regions’ balance sheet is in a moderately asset sensitive position and should benefit from a rise in either long-term or short-term rates. So, if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby spurring a more rapid rise in interest rates, both net interest income and the resulting net interest margin would respond favorably.

Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions’ securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of stockholders’ equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). 

Derivatives—Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (“ALCO”), which consists of members of Regions’ senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks.

Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed-upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Company's customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform.

Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed-rate funding position and available for sale securities portfolio to a variable-rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable-rate loan portfolio to fixed-rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held-for-sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. 

The following table presents additional information about the interest rate derivatives used by Regions to manage interest rate risk:

Table 27—Hedging Derivatives by Interest Rate Risk Management Strategy 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non-dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and/or posted to that counterparty. The majority of interest rate derivatives traded by Regions are subject to mandatory clearing. The counterparty risk for cleared trades effectively moves from the executing broker to the clearinghouse allowing Regions to benefit from the risk mitigation 

80

Table of Contents 

controls in place at the respective clearinghouse. The “Credit Risk” section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk.

Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of income.

The primary objective of Regions’ hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions’ execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 20 “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities” to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions’ year-end derivatives positions and further discussion.

Regions accounts for residential mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Regions enters into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to residential mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions’ current portfolio.

MARKET RISK—PREPAYMENT RISK 

Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage-related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower-yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions’ interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions’ greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage-backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed-rate loan portfolio and the residential mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Each of these assets is also exposed to prepayment risk due to factors which are not necessarily the result of interest rates, but rather due to changes in policies or programs related, either directly or indirectly, to the U.S. Government's governance over certain lending and financing within the mortgage market. Such policies can work to either encourage or discourage financing dynamics and represent a risk that is extremely difficult to forecast and may be the result of non-economic factors. The Company attempts to monitor and manage such exposures within reasonable expectations while acknowledging all such risks cannot be foreseen or avoided. Further, Regions has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non-interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because current interest rates are relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolio. 

LIQUIDITY RISK

Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions’ ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. On September 3, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC released the final version of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio. The rule is designed to ensure that financial institutions have the necessary assets on hand to withstand short-term liquidity disruptions. See the "Liquidity Coverage Ratio" discussion included in the "Regulatory Capital Requirements" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information.

Regions intends to fund its obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies. See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Company’s funding requirements.

Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders’ equity. Regions’ goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting the Company’s cash flow needs. The challenges of the recent recession and the recovery in the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Company’s funding requirements.

In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company, and affiliate levels. Regions' liquidity policy requires the holding company to maintain cash sufficient to cover the greater of (1) 18 months of debt service and other cash needs or (2) a minimum cash balance of $500 million. Compliance with the holding company cash requirements is reported to the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Regions has minimum liquidity requirements for the Bank and subsidiaries. The Bank's funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on short-term unsecured sources. Risk limits are established within the Company's ALCO, which regularly reviews compliance with the established limits. 

81

Table of Contents 

The securities portfolio is one of Regions’ primary sources of liquidity. Proceeds from maturities and principal and interest payments of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 4 “Securities” to the consolidated financial statements). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities.

Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one-to-four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets, although Regions does not currently rely on short-term unsecured wholesale market funding. Regions’ liquidity has been further enhanced by its relatively stable customer deposit base. 

In 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank started a program for paying interest on excess reserves; this decreased the amount of federal funds sold on banks' balance sheets and replaced it with interest paid on balances held in the reserve accounts. The balance with the Federal Reserve Bank is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, “interest-bearing deposits in other banks.” During 2014, Regions held approximately $2.9 billion in average excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve, up approximately 25 percent from 2013. 

Regions’ borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2014, based on assets pledged as collateral on that date, was $21.3 billion.

Regions’ financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing the Company's liquidity position. As of December 31, 2014, Regions’ borrowing availability from the FHLB totaled $9.9 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one-to-four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investments in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Refer to Note 4 "Securities" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these investments. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding.

Regions maintains a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and/or equity securities. Regions also maintains a Bank Note program that allows Regions Bank to issue up to $5 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. Refer to Note 12 "Long-Term Borrowings" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments.

Table 28—Contractual Obligations 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for the Company’s commercial commitments at December 31, 2014.

(2)Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non-interest bearing demand, savings, interest-bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts.

(3)Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non-qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan.

(4)Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships includes commitments to make future investments, short-term construction loans and letters of credit, as well as the funded portions of these loans and letters of credit. All of these items are short-term in nature and the 

82

Table of Contents 

majority do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have all been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. See Note 2 "Variable Interest Entities" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

(5)Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $50 million and tax-related interest and penalties of $5 million. See Note 19 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements.

(6)See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the indemnification obligation to Raymond James, and the rationale for the expected payment timeframe.

CREDIT RISK

Regions’ objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high-quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Regions has a diversified loan portfolio in terms of product type, collateral and geography. See the “Credit Quality” section found earlier in this report for further information. 

Management Process

Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and investor real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk-rated, approved and monitored.

Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies with the individual business groups. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. The credit risk management division works with commercial relationship teams to analyze and underwrite new business opportunities, manage the overall loan portfolio, and perform ongoing credit servicing activities utilizing a risk-based approach which incorporates quantitative and qualitative factors.

To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions’ Problem Asset Management Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures.

There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business unit to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios.

Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by business group personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk-rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended.

Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio

In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. See Table 9 "Loan Portfolio" and the related "Portfolio Characteristics" discussion found earlier in this report for further information on the major categories of loans.

Economic Environment in Regions’ Banking Markets 

One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions’ loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. After a poor start to the year, with real GDP contracting in the first quarter of 2014, economic growth expanded over the final three quarters of the year. The contraction in the first quarter was mainly a function of unusually harsh winter weather while the remainder of 2014 reflected a continuation of the stepped-up pace of growth that started in the second half of 2013 when the U.S. economy began to break out of the malaise left in the wake of the 2007 to 2009 recession and the accompanying financial crisis. While the economy is now in the midst of what has turned into a broad based and self-sustaining expansion, there nonetheless remains a considerable degree of slack in the labor market and in the broader economy. 

Real GDP growth in 2015 is expected to remain above-trend, supported mainly by faster growth in consumer spending and business investment spending. There are, however, some stern challenges facing the U.S. economy in the coming year. It is widely expected at some point in 2015 the Federal Open Market Committee ("FOMC") will begin raising the Federal funds rate. There 

83

Table of Contents 

is little consensus around the timing of an initial hike in the funds rate and the pace at which subsequent hikes will occur. Additionally, the outlook for global economic growth in 2015 is highly uncertain, which poses a downside risk for growth in U.S. exports but also, with global central banks on divergent policy paths, has the potential to spawn considerable volatility in global financial markets while continuing to impact the path of long-term U.S. interest rates. Therefore, while the baseline forecast calls for above-trend economic growth in the U.S., Regions' assessment of risks to the baseline forecast shows risks to be nearly balanced but nonetheless slightly tilted to the downside and expects a heightened degree of volatility in equity prices and long-term U.S. interest rates to persist over the course of 2015.

Within the Regions footprint, the pace of economic growth is proceeding roughly on par with that of the U.S. as a whole, though growth has been and is expected to remain somewhat uneven across the individual states within the footprint. Those markets with more diverse economies and positive demographic trends and those markets with higher exposure to health care, technology, durable goods manufacturing, and transportation are generally amongst the better performing markets within the Regions footprint and are expected to remain so. Housing market activity appears to be picking up at a steady pace within the Regions footprint. As is the case for the U.S. as a whole, multi-family construction has rebounded far more rapidly than has single family construction. Over the course of 2015, it is expected there will be a better balance between single family and multi-family construction, particularly to the extent improved job and income growth along with still favorable mortgage interest rates stimulate demand for home purchases.

In summation, real GDP growth is expected to be better than 3.0 percent for 2015 as a whole with growth at or slightly below 3.0 percent in 2016. While Regions expects firm growth in the domestic economy in 2015, a highly uncertain global growth outlook poses a downside risk to the U.S. economy, and global factors will continue to weigh on inflation and long-term interest rates in the U.S. The continuing challenge of a prolonged low interest rate environment is expected in 2015 with no changes in the Federal funds rate expected until later in the year and global factors weighing on long-term rates. 

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses ("allowance") consists of two components: the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. The allowance represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of period end. 

Allowance Process—Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: 1) detailed reviews of individual loans; 2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge-offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; 3) the Company’s policies relating to delinquent loans and charge-offs; 4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; 5) levels and trends in non-performing and past due loans; 6) collateral values of properties securing loans; 7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; 8) management’s analysis of current economic conditions; 9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and 10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio.

Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Problem Asset Management are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program for consumer lending is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent.

In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non-performing loans on at least an annual basis. For loans that are individually identified for impairment in certain loan categories, those valuations are currently discounted from the most recent appraisal to consider continued declines in property values. The discounted valuations are utilized in the measurement of the level of impairment in the allowance calculation. For loans that are not individually identified for impairment and secured by real estate, Regions considers the impact of declines in real estate valuations in the loss given default estimates within the allowance calculation.

As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure the guarantor’s ability to perform under the guarantee. Evaluation of guarantors’ ability and willingness to pay is considered as part of the risk rating process, which provides the basis for the allowance for loan losses for the commercial and investor real estate portfolios. In some cases, the credit support provided by the guarantor is integral to the risk rating. In concluding that the risk rating is appropriate, Regions considers a number of factors including whether underlying cash flow is adequate to service the debt, payment history, and whether there is appropriate guarantor support. Accordingly, Regions has concluded that the impact of credit support provided by guarantors has been appropriately considered in the calculation and assessment of the allowance for loan losses.

84

Table of Contents 

For a discussion of the methodology used to calculate the allowance for credit losses refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” in the consolidated financial statements. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s total, are included in Table 15 “Allowance for Credit Losses.” Also, refer to Table 16 “Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses” for details pertaining to management’s allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category.

Counterparty Risk

Counterparty risk within Regions Bank is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction or contract could be unable or unwilling to fulfill its contractual or legal obligations. Exposure may be to a financial institution (such as commercial banks, insurance companies, broker dealers, etc.) or a corporate client. 

Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management, and monitoring of counterparty exposure. Financial Institution and Counterparty Credit, housed within Capital Markets Risk Management, is responsible for the independent credit risk management of financial institution counterparties and their affiliates. Market Risk Management is responsible for the suitability, measurement, and stress testing of counterparty exposures. Business Services Credit is responsible for the independent credit risk management of client side counterparties.

Financial institution exposure may result from a variety of transaction types generated in one or more departments of the Company. Exposure limits are established to manage the exposure generated by various areas of the Company. Counterparty client credit risk arises when Regions sells a risk management product to hedge risks in the client’s business. Exposures to counterparties are aggregated across departments and regularly reported to senior management.

INFORMATION SECURITY RISK

Operational risks comprise several elements, including information security risks. Information security risks such as evolving and adaptive cyber attacks, for large financial institutions such as Regions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, activists and other external parties.  Regions spends significant resources on operational and information security. Regions is a member of the Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center ("FS-ISAC"). The FS-ISAC is a nonprofit organization and is funded entirely by its member firms and sponsors. Total membership exceeds 1,600 organizations focused in the financial services sector, both domestically and internationally. The overall objective of FS-ISAC is to protect the financial services sector against cyber and physical threats and risk. It acts as a trusted third party that provides anonymity to allow members to submit threat, vulnerability and incident information in a non-attributable and trusted manner so information that would normally not be shared is instead provided for the good of the membership. In addition to FS-ISAC, Regions is a member of BITS, the technology arm of the Financial Services Roundtable. BITS serves the financial community and its members by providing industry best practices on a variety of security and fraud topics. Regions also maintains a close working relationship with its regulators and law enforcement partners to keep them updated on pertinent risks. 

Denial of service attacks, hacking or terrorist activities, could disrupt the Company's or the Company's customers' or other third parties' business operations. For example, during 2013, a group launched several denial of service attacks against a number of large financial services institutions, including Regions. These events did not result in a breach of Regions' client data, and account information remained secure; however, the attacks did adversely affect the performance of Regions Bank's website, www.regions.com, and, in some instances, temporarily prevented customers from accessing Regions Bank's secure websites. In addition, some outbound internet slowness existed. The 2013 events were all resolved during the same business day of the attack. Regions experienced one brief denial of service attack in November 2014, which was resolved the same day of the attack, with no breach of Regions' client data. In all cases, the attacks primarily resulted in inconvenience to employees and customers. Regions engages employees from all business groups, not just information technology, to combat these attacks.

Even if Regions successfully prevents data breaches to its own networks, the Company may still incur losses that result from customers' account information obtained through breaches of retailers' networks where customers have transacted business. Fraud losses, as well as the costs of investigations and re-issuing new customer cards impact Regions' results.

Regions will continue to commit the resources necessary to mitigate these growing risks, as well as continue to develop and enhance controls, processes and systems to protect our networks, computers, and data from attacks or unauthorized access. In addition, Regions has contracts with vendors to provide denial of service mitigation and these vendors have also continued to commit the necessary resources to support Regions in the event of an attack.

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS

Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions’ process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format 

85

Table of Contents 

not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective.

Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Regions’ Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations, treasury and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, treasury, and the business groups. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from accounting, treasury, legal, audit, risk management, and the business groups. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Company’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Form 10-K is presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval, and the Forms 10-Q are reviewed by the Audit Committee. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.

As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions’ periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary.

COMPARISON OF 2013 WITH 2012—CONTINUING OPERATIONS

Regions reported net income available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.77 per diluted common share, in 2013 compared to $991 million, or $0.71 per diluted share, in 2012. Regions reported income from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.78 per diluted common share, in 2013 compared to $1.1 billion, or $0.76 per diluted share, in 2012. 

Net interest income from continuing operations was $3.3 billion in 2013 and 2012. The net interest margin from continuing operations (taxable-equivalent basis) was 3.20 percent in 2013, compared to 3.11 percent during 2012. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a favorable mix shift from higher-cost time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 0.15 percent in 2013 from 0.30 percent in 2012. 

Non-interest income from continuing operations decreased $81 million to $2.0 billion in 2013 compared to 2012. The year-over-year decrease was primarily due to a decrease in mortgage income, offset by gain on sale of other assets and leveraged lease termination gains.

Service charges on deposit accounts decreased $22 million in 2013 compared to 2012. During 2012, service charges on deposit accounts were negatively impacted by a total of approximately $35 million in customer refunds resulting from a change in the Company’s non-sufficient funds policy. The overall decline in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily driven by policy changes negatively impacting non-sufficient fund fees as well as customer behavior changes and sensitivities to paying fees.

In 2013, mortgage income decreased $127 million, or 35 percent to $236 million. The decrease was driven by the Company's decision to begin retaining 10- and 15-year residential first mortgage originations on its balance sheet in the fourth quarter of 2012, combined with an increase in the cost of hedging mortgage servicing rights. 

Regions reported net gains of $26 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2013, compared to net gains of $48 million in 2012. Lower security gains during 2013 were due to lower volumes of securities sales resulting from the Company’s asset/liability management process.

Card and ATM fees decreased $5 million in 2013 compared to 2012. This line item represents the combined amounts of credit card/bank card income and debit card and ATM related revenue. 

Non-interest expense from continuing operations increased $30 million in 2013 compared to 2012. Non-interest expense in 2013 included a $58 million regulatory charge and $5 million of branch consolidation and property and equipment charges. Non-interest expense in 2012 included $42 million in REIT investment early termination costs. The increase in non-interest expense in 2013 included increases of $55 million in salaries and benefits, $50 million in loss on early extinguishment of debt and $24 million in outside services. These increases were offset by decreases of $55 million in amortization of core deposit intangible, $37 million in deposit administrative fees, and $36 million in other real estate owned expense. See Table 6 “Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations” for additional information.

86

Table of Contents 

Total salaries and employee benefits increased $55 million, or 3 percent, in 2013. The increase is primarily due to additional staffing in income producing areas, compliance and risk management during 2013 as well as incentive increases and annual merit increases, partially offset by decreased pension costs. Headcount increased from 23,427 at December 31, 2012 to 24,255 at December 31, 2013.

Net occupancy expense decreased 4 percent to $365 million in 2013, primarily due to lease downsizing efforts and favorable negotiation of vendor service contracts. Furniture and equipment expense increased by $19 million to $280 million in 2013. The increase was primarily driven by higher depreciation due to system upgrades implemented during 2013. 

Professional, legal, and regulatory expenses increased $76 million or 67 percent to $190 million in 2013, primarily due to a non-tax deductible regulatory charge of $58 million related to previously disclosed inquiries from government authorities. The matter was settled in 2014 for $7 million less than originally estimated. Other increases included legal matters and related fees, as well as increased consulting charges attributable to regulatory and compliance projects. 

Outside services increased $24 million or 29 percent during 2013 when compared to 2012. The increase was primarily due to expenses incurred related to assuming the servicing of the credit card portfolio during the third quarter of 2012, as well as fees related to an increase in the routine purchases of indirect loans from a third party.

Foreclosed property expense decreased $36 million to $16 million in 2013. The decline in expense was due to lower foreclosed property balances and stabilizing real estate values. 

Deposit administrative fees decreased $37 million to $125 million in 2013. The decrease is related to lower asset balances, improved performance metrics and a reduction in higher risk loans, all of which impact the fee calculation.

The Company recorded $31 million less in gains on loans held for sale for 2013 when compared to 2012. The decreased gains were due to lower balances of non-performing loans held for sale. 

Amortization of other intangibles decreased $55 million or 50 percent for 2013 when compared to 2012. Regions' annual 2012 impairment test reflected an increase in the estimated life of Regions' core deposit intangibles, which resulted in a decrease in amortization beginning in 2013.

The Company’s income tax expense for 2013 was $452 million compared to $482 million in 2012, resulting in an effective tax rate of 28.5 percent and 29.0 percent, respectively. 

At December 31, 2013, the allowance for loan losses totaled $1.3 billion or 1.80 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.9 billion or 2.59 percent at year-end 2012. Net charge-offs totaled $716 million, or 0.96 percent of average loans in 2013 compared to $1.0 billion, or 1.37 percent of average loans in 2012. Net charge-offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2013 to the prior year. During 2013, the provision for loan losses was $138 million. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $213 million in 2012. Non-performing assets decreased from $1.9 billion at December 31, 2012, to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013, reflecting management’s efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures.

87

Table of Contents 

Table 29—Quarterly Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]________

(1)Quarterly amounts may not add to year-to-date amounts due to rounding.

(2)High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices.

88

Table of Contents 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data