PART II  

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

INTRODUCTION  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas business to shareholders, as discussed below. Accordingly, the results of operations of Duke Energy’s Natural Gas Transmission business segment and Duke Energy’s 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. Additionally, in April 2006, Duke Energy consummated the merger with Cinergy.  

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  

2008 Financial Results. For the year-ended December 31, 2008, Duke Energy reported net income of $1,362 million and basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $1.08 and $1.07, respectively, as compared to net income of $1,500 million and basic and diluted EPS of $1.19 and $1.18, respectively, for the year-ended December 31, 2007. Income from continuing operations was $1,279 million for 2008 as compared to $1,522 million for 2007. Total reportable segment EBIT (defined below in “Segment Results” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) increased to $3,073 million in 2008 from $2,971 million in 2007.  

See “Results of Operations” below for a detailed discussion of the consolidated results of operations, as well as a detailed discussion of EBIT results for each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.  

2008 Objectives. Planning for future capital expansion and the related regulatory cost recovery structures was a primary focus in 2008. Over the period 2009 through 2013, Duke Energy plans to spend approximately $25 billion on capital expenditures, with approximately $18 billion anticipated to support the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. During 2008 and early 2009, Duke Energy achieved important milestones with various state and federal regulators related to future capital projects. In the Carolinas, the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) issued the final air permit for Cliffside Unit 6, the state of the art coal generation unit at Duke Energy Carolinas’ existing Cliffside Steam Station and Duke Energy Carolinas entered into an engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning services agreement with an affiliate of The Shaw Group, Inc. related to participation in the construction of Cliffside Unit 6, which has a current cost estimate of approximately $2.4 billion, which includes approximately $0.6 billion of allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC). On October 14, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas submitted revised hazardous air pollutant emissions determination documentation including revised emission source information to North Carolina Department of Air Quality (DAQ) indicating that no maximum achievable control technology (MACT) or MACT-like requirements apply since Cliffside Unit 6 has been demonstrated to be a minor source of hazardous air pollutants. On October 24, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed to amend its air permit to include emission limits to assure the public of the minor source status of Cliffside Unit 6. As of December 31, 2008, the Cliffside Unit 6 project was approximately 30% complete. Duke Energy Carolinas is also continuing to seek all necessary regulatory approvals for the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station, including December 2007 filings of a Combined Construction and Operating License (COL) application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), which was approved in February 2008, and requests to incur up to $230 million in development costs through 2009, which were approved in 2008. Although these actions are necessary steps as management continues to pursue the option of building a new nuclear plant, submitting these applications does not commit Duke Energy Carolinas to build a nuclear unit. In Indiana, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) issued an order in November 2007 granting Duke Energy Indiana a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) for the proposed 630 megawatt (MW) Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) power plant at the Edwardsport Generating Station, and construction is underway. The order also approved the timely recovery of costs related to the project. On January 7, 2009, the IURC approved Duke Energy Indiana’s first semi-annual IGCC Rider including a new cost estimate for the IGCC Project of $2.35 billion (including approximately $125 million of AFUDC) and cost recovery associated with a study on carbon capture. Duke Energy Indiana has begun construction on the Edwardsport IGCC plant and entered into a $200 million engineering, procurement and construction management agreement with Bechtel Power Corporation in December 2008 in connection with the construction of the plant.  

Management is continuing its focus on reducing regulatory lag, which refers to the period of time between making an investment and earning a return and recovering that investment.  

New legislation (SB 221) was passed on April 23, 2008 and signed by the Governor of Ohio on May 1, 2008. The new law codifies the Public Utility Commission of Ohio’s (PUCO) authority to approve an electric utility’s standard service offer through an electric security plan (ESP), which would allow for pricing structures similar to the current rate stabilization plan (RSP) in Ohio. On July 31, 2008, Duke   

42  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 Energy Ohio filed a new generation pricing formula to be effective January 1, 2009, when the RSP is scheduled to expire. Among other things, the plan provides pricing mechanisms for compensation related to the advanced energy, renewables and energy efficiency portfolio standards established by SB 221. On October 27, 2008 Duke Energy Ohio filed a Stipulation which results in a residential net rate increase of 2% in 2009 and in 2010, and a non-residential rate increase of 2% in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The Stipulation also allows the recovery of expenditures incurred to deploy SmartGrid infrastructure modernization technology on the distribution system. The recovery of such expenditures, net of savings, is subject to an annual residential revenue cap. Further, the Stipulation allows for the implementation of a new energy efficiency compensation model, referred to as Save-A-Watt, to achieve the energy efficiency mandate pursuant to the recent electric energy legislation. On December 17, 2008, the PUCO issued its finding and order, which adopted a modified Stipulation approving Duke Energy Ohio’s ESP. Specifically, the PUCO modified the Stipulation to permit certain non-residential customers to opt out of utility-sponsored energy efficiency initiatives and to allow residential governmental aggregation customers who leave Duke Energy Ohio’s system to avoid some charges. Applications for rehearing of the PUCO’s decision have been filed by environmental groups and a residential customer advocate group.  

Prior to December 17, 2008, Commercial Power did not apply the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,” (SFAS No. 71) due to the comprehensive electric deregulation legislation passed by the state of Ohio in 1999. The approval of the ESP and SB 221 substantially increased the PUCO’s oversight authority over generation in the state of Ohio, including giving the PUCO complete approval of generation rates and the establishment of an earnings test to determine if a utility has earned significantly excessive earnings. Duke Energy Ohio determined that certain costs and related rates (riders) of Commercial Power’s operations related to generation serving native load meet the criteria established by SFAS No. 71 for regulatory accounting treatment. As a result of the reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of Commercial Power’s operations, Commercial Power’s future results will be subject to less volatility that had been caused by the timing of under-and-over collections of certain costs, as well as the impacts of mark-to-market activity on certain coal and power derivatives.  

On February 28, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio reached a settlement agreement with the PUCO Staff and all of the intervening parties on its request for an increase in natural gas base rates. The settlement called for an annual revenue increase of approximately $18 million in base revenue, or 3% over current revenue, permitted continued recovery of costs through 2018 for Duke Energy Ohio’s accelerated gas main replacement program and permitted recovery of carrying costs on gas stored underground via its monthly gas cost adjustment filing. Certain rate design issues, which were unresolved at the time of the settlement, are currently under appeal at the Ohio Supreme Court.  

On June 25, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio filed notice with the PUCO that it will seek a rate increase for electric delivery service of approximately $86 million, or 4.8% on total electric revenues, to be effective in the second quarter of 2009. Management expects the rate case to be resolved by mid-2009. In addition, Duke Energy intends to file for electric rate increases in North Carolina and South Carolina in 2009, with rates becoming effective in 2010.  

Global climate change was another primary focus of management during 2008. Duke Energy’s strategy for meeting customer demand while building a sustainable business that allows our customers and our shareholders to prosper in a carbon-constrained environment includes significant commitments to renewable energy, customer energy efficiency, advanced nuclear power, advanced clean-coal and high-efficiency natural gas electric generating plants, and retirement of older less efficient coal-fired power plants. In order to expand its wind energy operations, Commercial Power, through Duke Energy Generation Services (DEGS), acquired the wind power development assets of Energy Investor Funds from Tierra Energy in May 2007 and, in September 2008, acquired Catamount Energy Corporation (Catamount) from Diamond Castle Partners. DEGS currently has approximately 370 net MW of wind energy in operation and well over 5,000 MW of wind energy projects in the development pipeline. On June 6, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the NCUC for approval of a Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Distributed Generation Program. The application seeks authorization to invest approximately $100 million to install approximately 850 solar PV facilities on customer rooftops and other customer and company owned property over a two-year period, resulting in a total generating capacity of 20 MW. On October 20, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed rebuttal testimony, agreeing to reduce the size of the program to an investment of approximately $50 million to install a total generating capacity of 10 MW to address concerns raised by other parties to the proceeding. On December 31, 2008, the NCUC issued its Order Granting the CPCN subject to certain conditions.  

Management is also making progress on increasing the role energy efficiency will have in meeting customers’ growing energy needs. Energy efficiency is considered a “fifth fuel” in the portfolio available to meet customers’ growing needs for electricity, along with coal, nuclear, natural gas and renewable energy. During 2007, new energy efficiency plans were filed in North Carolina, South Carolina and Indiana and energy efficiency programs were expanded in both Kentucky and Ohio. The energy efficiency plans filed in North Carolina,   

43  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 South Carolina and Indiana are Save-A-Watt programs that would compensate Duke Energy for verified reductions in energy use and be available to all customer groups. In North Carolina, the NCUC ruled on February 26, 2009 to approve the proposed energy efficiency plan but did not approve cost recovery as the NCUC requested additional information regarding the earnings potential under the proposed Save-A-Watt recovery mechanism. In South Carolina the PSCSC issued a directive rejecting Duke Energy Carolinas’ Save-A-Watt energy efficiency plan on February 25, 2009. In Indiana, a settlement agreement was filed with the IURC between Duke Energy Indiana and several intervenors and an evidentiary hearing is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2009. On December 1, 2008, Duke Energy Kentucky filed an application for a Save-a-Watt Energy Efficiency Plan. The application seeks a new energy efficiency recovery mechanism similar to what was proposed in Ohio and Indiana. The ESP approved by the PUCO, as discussed above, includes certain stipulations for Duke Energy Ohio’s energy efficiency programs.  

Overall, the regulatory and legislative accomplishments during 2008 have positioned Duke Energy well for 2009 and beyond.  

Duke Energy Objectives – 2009 and beyond. Management of Duke Energy continues to focus on the following objectives:  

   •    Pursue a balanced approach to meeting future energy needs by pursuing new supply options, including energy efficiency, coal gasification, advanced pulverized coal, nuclear, natural gas-fired generation and renewable energy, while considering whether they are available, affordable, reliable and clean;  

   •    Pursue low-carbon and no-carbon solutions for meeting future energy needs in anticipation of a carbon-constrained world;  

   •    Control costs, run the businesses efficiently and provide excellent customer service; and  

   •    Meet 2009 financial objectives and, for the long-term, deliver on its promise to shareholders by steadily growing earnings and dividends.  

The majority of future earnings are anticipated to be contributed from U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, which consists of Duke Energy’s regulated businesses that currently own a capacity of approximately 28,000 megawatts of generation. The regulated generation portfolio consists of a mix of coal, nuclear, natural gas and hydroelectric generation, with the substantial majority of all of the sales of electricity coming from coal and nuclear generation facilities. Commercial Power has net capacity of approximately 7,550 megawatts of regulated and unregulated generation, excluding wind assets, of which approximately 4,000 megawatts serves retail customers under the ESP in Ohio. Approximately 75% of International Energy’s net capacity of approximately 4,000 megawatts of installed generation capacity in Latin America consists of base load hydroelectric capacity that carries a low level of dispatch risk; in addition, for 2009 approximately 90% of International Energy’s contractible capacity in Latin America is either currently contracted or receives a system capacity payment.  

As a result of the downturn in the economy, Duke Energy has experienced reductions in sales volumes, most notably with respect to industrial customers. Management anticipates that recessionary pressures will continue in 2009, resulting in essentially flat kilowatt-hour sales in both the Carolinas and the Midwest service territories. In order to address these pressures, management is focused on containing costs and achieving constructive regulatory outcomes to reduce regulatory lag.  

As mentioned earlier, during the five-year period from 2009 to 2013, Duke Energy anticipates total capital expenditures of approximately $25 billion. Of this amount, approximately 30% is expected to be spent on committed projects, including base load power plants to meet long term growth in customer demand, ongoing environmental projects, and nuclear fuel. Approximately 50% of capital expenditures are expected to be used primarily for overall system maintenance, customer connections, and corporate expenditures. Although these expenditures are ultimately necessary to ensure overall system maintenance and reliability, the timing of the expenditures may be influenced by broad economic conditions and customer growth. The remaining planned capital expenditures are of a discretionary nature and relate to growth opportunities in which Duke Energy may invest, provided there are opportunities to meet return expectations along with assurance of constructive regulatory treatment in the regulated businesses. Capital expenditures are currently estimated to be approximately $4.8 billion in 2009. These expenditures are principally related to expansion plans, maintenance costs, environmental spending related to Clean Air Act requirements and nuclear fuel. Duke Energy is committed to adding base load capacity at a reasonable price while modernizing the current generation facilities by replacing older, less efficient plants with cleaner, more efficient plants. Significant expansion projects include the new IGCC plant at Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport Generating Station, a new 825 MW coal unit at Duke Energy Carolinas’ existing Cliffside facility in North Carolina and new gas-fired generation units at Duke Energy Carolinas’ existing Dan River and Buck Steam Stations, as well as other additions due to system growth. Additionally, Duke Energy is evaluating the potential construction of the William States Lee III nuclear power plant in Cherokee County, South Carolina. Costs related to environmental spending are expected to decrease over the five-year period as the upgrades to comply with the new environmental regulations are completed.  

Duke Energy anticipates capital expenditures at Commercial Power will primarily relate to growth opportunities, such as renewable energy generation projects and environmental control equipment, as well as maintenance on existing plants. Capital expenditures at   

44  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 International Energy, which will be funded with cash held or raised by International Energy, will primarily be for strategic growth opportunities, as well as maintenance on existing plants. Duke Energy does not currently anticipate any additional capital investment related to its investment in the Crescent JV.  

With the exception of equity issuances to fund the dividend reinvestment plan and other internal plans, Duke Energy does not currently anticipate funding capital expenditures with the issuance of common equity in the foreseeable future, but rather through the use of available cash and cash equivalents as well as the issuance of incremental debt. Further, at this time, Duke Energy does not believe the recent market developments significantly impact its ability to obtain financing and fully expects to have access to liquidity in the capital markets at reasonable rates and terms. Additionally, Duke Energy has access to unsecured revolving credit facilities, which are not restricted upon general market conditions, with aggregate bank commitments of approximately $3.14 billion. At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy has available borrowing capacity of approximately $1.2 billion under this facility. For further information related to management’s assessment of liquidity and capital resources, including known trends and uncertainties, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below.  

As the majority of Duke Energy’s anticipated future capital expenditures are related to its regulated operations, a risk to Duke Energy is the ability to recover costs related to such expansion in a timely manner. Energy legislation passed in North Carolina and South Carolina in 2007 provides, among other things, mechanisms for Duke Energy to recover financing costs for new nuclear or coal base load generation during the construction phase. In Indiana, Duke Energy has received approval to recover its development costs for the new IGCC plant at the Edwardsport Generating Station. Duke Energy has received approval for nearly $260 million of future federal tax credits related to costs to be incurred for the modernization of Cliffside Unit 6, as well as the IGCC plant in Indiana. In addition, Duke Energy has received general assurances from the NCUC that the North Carolina allocable portion of development costs associated with the William States Lee III nuclear station will be recoverable through a future rate case proceeding as long as the costs are deemed prudent and reasonable. Duke Energy does not anticipate beginning construction of the proposed nuclear power plant without adequate assurance of cost recovery from the state legislators or regulators.  

In summary, Duke Energy is coordinating its future capital expenditure requirements with regulatory initiatives in order to ensure adequate and timely cost recovery while continuing to provide low cost energy to its customers.  

Economic Factors for Duke Energy’s Business. Duke Energy’s business model provides diversification between stable regulated businesses like U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and certain portions of Commercial Power’s operations, and the traditionally higher-growth businesses like the unregulated portion of Commercial Power’s operations and International Energy. As was the case throughout 2008, all of Duke Energy’s businesses can be negatively affected by sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy, including low market prices of commodities, all of which are beyond Duke Energy’s control, and could impair Duke Energy’s ability to meet its goals for 2009 and beyond.  

Declines in demand for electricity as a result of economic downturns would reduce overall electricity sales and lessen Duke Energy’s cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production and, thus, consumption of electricity. A weakening economy could also impact Duke Energy’s customer’s ability to pay, causing increased delinquencies, slowing collections and lead to higher than normal levels of accounts receivables, bad debts and financing requirements. A portion of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ business risk is mitigated by its regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of fuel costs under fuel adjustment clauses. The approval of the ESP in Ohio also helps mitigate a portion of the risk associated with certain portions of Commercial Power’s generation operations by providing mechanisms for recovery of certain costs associated with, among other things, fuel and purchased power for native-load customers.  

If negative market conditions should persist over time and estimated cash flows over the lives of Duke Energy’s individual assets, including goodwill, do not exceed the carrying value of those individual assets, asset impairments may occur in the future under existing accounting rules and diminish results of operations. A change in management’s intent about the use of individual assets (held for use versus held for sale) could also result in impairments or losses.  

Duke Energy’s 2009 goals can also be substantially at risk due to the regulation of its businesses. Duke Energy’s businesses in the United States are subject to regulation on the federal and state level. Regulations, applicable to the electric power industry, have a significant impact on the nature of the businesses and the manner in which they operate. Changes to regulations are ongoing and Duke Energy cannot predict the future course of changes in the regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that any future changes will have on its business.  

Duke Energy’s earnings are impacted by fluctuations in commodity prices. Exposure to commodity prices generates higher earnings volatility in the unregulated businesses as there are timing differences as to when such costs are recovered in rates. To mitigate these risks, Duke Energy enters into derivative instruments to effectively hedge some, but not all, known exposures.  

45  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Additionally, Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. Changes in these factors are difficult to predict and may impact Duke Energy’s future results.  

Duke Energy also relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not met by cash flow from operations. An inability to access capital at competitive rates or at all could adversely affect Duke Energy’s ability to implement its strategy. Market disruptions or a downgrade of Duke Energy’s credit rating may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to access one or more sources of liquidity. Additionally, if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there are no assurances that commitments made by lenders under Duke Energy’s credit facilities will be available if needed as a source of funding due to the turmoil throughout the financial services industry.  

For further information related to management’s assessment of Duke Energy’s risk factors, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Consolidated Operating Revenues  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. Consolidated operating revenues for 2008 increased approximately $487 million compared to 2007. This change was primarily driven by the following:  

   •    An approximate $419 million increase at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas below for further information; and  

   •    An approximate $125 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    An approximate $55 million decrease at Commercial Power. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information.  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. Consolidated operating revenues for 2007 increased $2,113 million, compared to 2006. This change was driven primarily by the following:  

   •    An approximate $1,642 million increase at U. S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas below for further information;  

   •    An approximate $550 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information; and  

   •    An approximate $117 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    An approximate $194 million decrease at Other. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for Other below for further information.  

Consolidated Operating Expenses  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. Consolidated operating expenses for 2008 increased approximately $543 million compared to 2007. This change was driven primarily by the following:  

   •    An approximate $401 million increase at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas below for further information;  

   •    An approximate $123 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information; and  

   •    An approximate $27 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information.  

46  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. Consolidated operating expenses for 2007 increased approximately $1,012 million, compared to 2006. This change was driven primarily by the following:  

   •    An approximate $1,169 million increase at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas below for further information; and  

   •    An approximate $326 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information.  

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

   •    An approximate $400 million decrease in Other. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Other below for further information; and  

   •    An approximate $62 million decrease at International Energy. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Consolidated Gains on Sales of Investments in Commercial and Multi-Family Real Estate  

Consolidated gains on sales of investments in commercial and multi-family real estate were zero in both 2008 and 2007 as a result of the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006 and the subsequent accounting for Duke Energy’s investment in Crescent as an equity method investment. Gains amounted to approximately $201 million in 2006. The gain in 2006 was driven primarily by pre-tax gains from the sale of two office buildings at Potomac Yard in Washington, D.C. and a gain on a land sale at Lake Keowee in northwestern South Carolina.  

Consolidated Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net  

Consolidated gains (losses) on sales of other assets and other, net was a gain of approximately $69 million in 2008, a loss of approximately $5 million for 2007 and a gain of approximately $223 million for 2006. The gain in 2008 relates primarily to Commercial Power’s sales of zero cost basis emission allowances, while the loss in 2007 relates primarily to Commercial Power’s sales of emission allowances acquired in connection with Duke Energy’s merger with Cinergy in April 2006 which were written up to fair value as part of purchase accounting. The gain in 2006 was due primarily to the pre-tax gains resulting from the sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent, creating a joint venture between Duke Energy and MSREF (approximately $246 million), partially offset by Commercial Power’s losses on sales of emission allowances acquired in connection with Duke Energy’s merger with Cinergy in April 2006 which were written up to fair value as part of purchase accounting (approximately $29 million).  

Consolidated Operating Income  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. For 2008, consolidated operating income increased approximately $18 million compared to 2007. Drivers to operating income are discussed above.  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. For 2007, consolidated operating income increased approximately $672 million compared to 2006. Increased operating income was partially driven by an approximate $237 million favorable impact generated during the first quarter of 2007 related to legacy Cinergy operations (reflected in the results for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power) for which there was zero in the comparable period of the prior year since the Cinergy merger occurred effective April 2006, as well as factors discussed above.  

Other drivers to operating income are discussed above. For more detailed discussions, see the segment discussions that follow.  

Consolidated Other Income and Expenses  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. For 2008, consolidated other income and expenses decreased approximately $307 million compared to 2007. This decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in equity earnings of approximately $259 million due primarily to impairment charges recorded by Crescent, of which Duke Energy’s proportionate share was approximately $238 million, partially offset by increased equity earnings from International Energy of approximately $25 million primarily related to its investment in National Methanol Company (NMC) primarily as a result of higher margins, an approximate $62 million decrease in interest income primarily due to favorable income tax settlements in 2007 and lower earnings on invested cash and short-term investment balances during 2008 as compared to 2007, an approximate $54 million decrease due to unfavorable investment returns and an approximate $34 million decrease associated with foreign currency losses due primarily to losses in 2008 associated with the remeasurement of certain U.S. dollar denominated cash and debt balances at International Energy, partially offset by an approximate $80 million increase   

47  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 in the equity component of AFUDC as a result of increased capital spending and the absence of convertible debt charges of approximately $21 million recognized in 2007 related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy.  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. For 2007, consolidated other income and expenses increased $74 million, compared to 2006. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in equity earnings of $34 million due primarily to the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006 and the subsequent accounting for Crescent as an equity method investment and increased equity earnings from International Energy of approximately $22 million primarily related to its investment in National Methanol Company (NMC) primarily as a result of higher margins, approximately $34 million increase in interest income, largely as a result of increased earnings from higher average invested cash and short-term investment balances during 2007 as compared to 2006 (of which approximately $19 million of the increase relates to interest income of legacy Cinergy in the first quarter 2007 with no comparable amount in 2006), partially offset by lower interest income related to income taxes resulting primarily from favorable income tax settlements in 2006, a $17 million impairment charge at International Energy recorded during the second quarter of 2006, and convertible debt costs of approximately $21 million related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy.  

Consolidated Interest Expense  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. Consolidated interest expense increased approximately $56 million in 2008 as compared to 2007. This increase is primarily attributable to higher debt balances, partially offset by a higher debt component of AFUDC and capitalized interest due to increased capital spending.  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. For 2007, consolidated interest expense increased $53 million, compared to 2006. This increase was due primarily to the debt assumed from the merger with Cinergy, higher interest on debt in Brazil and interest expense recorded on tax items primarily as a result of the adoption of FIN No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (FIN 48), partially offset by debt reductions and financing activities and an increase in the debt component of AFUDC resulting from increased capital spending.  

Consolidated Minority Interest (Benefit) Expense  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. Minority interest (benefit) expense was a benefit of approximately $4 million for 2008 as compared to an expense of approximately $2 million in 2007. This decrease was primarily due to losses at Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (DETM).  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. For 2007, consolidated minority interest expense decreased $11 million, compared to 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower earnings at Aguaytia in 2007 and the deconsolidation of Crescent.  

Consolidated Income Tax Expense from Continuing Operations  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. For 2008, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations decreased approximately $96 million compared to 2007. This decrease primarily resulted from lower pre-tax income in 2008 compared to 2007. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased to approximately 33% compared to 32% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in the effective tax rate during 2008 is primarily attributable to adjustments related to prior year tax returns, an increase in foreign taxes, a decrease in the manufacturing deduction and a deferred state tax benefit recorded in 2007 partially offset by higher AFUDC equity and a tax benefit recorded for certain foreign restructurings.  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006. For 2007, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations increased approximately $262 million compared to 2006. The increase is primarily the result of higher pre-tax income in 2007 as compared to 2006. Additionally, the effective tax rate increased for the year ended December 31, 2007 (32%) compared to 2006 (29%), due primarily to prior year favorable tax settlements on research and development costs and nuclear decommissioning costs, and tax benefits related to the impairment of an investment in Bolivia, partially offset by an increase in the manufacturing deduction in 2007 and higher foreign taxes accrued in 2006.  

Consolidated Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, net of tax  

Consolidated income (loss) from discontinued operations was income of $16 million for 2008, a loss of $22 million for 2007 and income of $783 million for 2006. The 2008 amount is primarily comprised of Commercial Power’s sale of its 480 MW natural gas-fired peaking generating station located near Brownsville, Tennessee to Tennessee Valley Authority, which resulted in an approximate $15 million after-tax gain.  

48  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

The 2007 amount is primarily comprised of an after-tax loss of approximately $18 million associated with former DENA contract settlements, an after-tax loss of approximately $8 million related to Cinergy commercial marketing and trading operations and after-tax earnings of approximately $23 million related to Commercial Power’s synfuel operations.  

The 2006 amount is primarily comprised of after-tax earnings of approximately $953 million related to the natural gas businesses that were spun off to shareholders on January 2, 2007, approximately $140 million of after-tax losses associated with certain contract terminations or sales at former DENA, and the recognition of approximately $17 million of after-tax losses associated with exiting the Cinergy commercial marketing and trading operations.  

See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale” for additional information related to discontinued operations.  

Extraordinary Item, net of tax  

The reapplication of SFAS No. 71 on December 17, 2008 resulted in an approximate $67 million after-tax (approximately $103 million pre-tax) extraordinary gain related to total mark-to-market losses previously recorded in earnings associated with open forward native load economic hedge contracts for fuel, purchased power and emission allowances, which the ESP allows to be recovered through a fuel and purchased power rider.  

Segment Results  

Management evaluates segment performance based on earnings before interest and taxes from continuing operations, after deducting minority interest expense related to those profits (EBIT). On a segment basis, EBIT excludes discontinued operations, represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating) before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the minority interest expense related to those profits. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed centrally by Duke Energy, so interest and dividend income on those balances, as well as gains and losses on remeasurement of foreign currency denominated balances, are excluded from the segments’ EBIT. Management considers segment EBIT to be a good indicator of each segment’s operating performance from its continuing operations, as it represents the results of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.  

See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments,” for a discussion of Duke Energy’s segment structure.  

Duke Energy’s segment EBIT may not be comparable to a similarly titled measure of another company because other entities may not calculate EBIT in the same manner. Segment EBIT is summarized in the following table, and detailed discussions follow.  

EBIT by Business Segment  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Other includes the results of Crescent for all periods presented as, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent is no longer an operating segment of Duke Energy.  

 (b) In September 2006, Duke Energy completed a joint venture transaction of Crescent. As a result, Other segment data for 2006 includes Crescent as a consolidated entity for periods prior to September 7, 2006 and as an equity method investment for periods subsequent to September 7, 2006.  

 (c) Other within Interest income and other includes foreign currency transaction gains and losses and additional minority interest expense not allocated to the segment results.  

49  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Minority interest expense presented below includes only minority interest expense related to EBIT of Duke Energy’s joint ventures. It does not include minority interest expense related to interest and taxes of the joint ventures.  

Segment EBIT, as discussed below, includes intercompany revenues and expenses that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Gigawatt-hours (GWh).  

 (b) Relates to operations of former Cinergy from the date of acquisition and thereafter.  

 (c) Duke Energy Ohio Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana) and Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Duke Energy Kentucky) collectively referred to as Duke Energy Midwest.  

 (d) Megawatt (MW).  

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Carolinas.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Major components of Duke Energy Carolinas’ retail sales.  

 (b) Consists of all components of Duke Energy Carolinas’ sales, including retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers.  

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Midwest  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Major components of Duke Energy Midwest’s retail sales.  

 (b) Consists of all components of Duke Energy Midwest’s sales, including retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers.  

50  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $474 million increase in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) driven primarily by higher fuel rates in all regions and legislative changes that allow Duke Energy Carolinas to collect additional purchased power and environmental compliance costs from retail customers. Fuel revenues represent sales to both retail and wholesale customers; and  

   •    A $92 million increase related to substantial completion in 2007 of the sharing of anticipated merger savings through rate decrement riders with regulated customers.  

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

   •    A $73 million decrease in weather adjusted sales volumes to retail customers reflecting the overall declining economic conditions, which are primarily impacting the industrial sector;  

   •    A $53 million decrease in retail rates and rate riders primarily related to the new retail base rates implemented in North Carolina in the first quarter of 2008, net of increases in recoveries of Duke Energy Indiana’s environmental compliance costs from retail customers and higher gas base rates implemented in the second quarter of 2008 for Duke Energy Ohio; and  

   •    A $49 million decrease in GWh/thousand cubic feet (Mcf) sales to retail customers due to milder weather in 2008 compared to 2007. While weather statistics for heating degree days in 2008 were favorable compared to 2007, this favorable impact was more than offset by the impact of fewer cooling degree days in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $441 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily due to higher coal and natural gas prices and increased purchased power. This increase also reflects a $21 million reimbursement in first quarter 2007 of previously incurred fuel expenses resulting from a settlement between Duke Energy Carolinas and U.S. Department of Justice resolving Duke Energy Carolinas’ used nuclear fuel litigation against the Department of Energy (DOE). The settlement between the parties was finalized on March 5, 2007;  

   •    A $67 million increase in depreciation due primarily to additional capital spending; and  

   •    A $66 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to higher scheduled outage and maintenance costs at nuclear and fossil generating plants, storm costs primarily in the Midwest related to Hurricane Ike in September 2008 net of deferral of a portion of the Ohio and Kentucky storm costs associated with Hurricane Ike, increased capacity costs due to additional contracts that were entered into in late 2007 to ensure customer electricity needs were met despite ongoing drought conditions and increased power delivery maintenance charges to increase system reliability, partially offset by lower benefit costs including short-term incentives.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $170 million decrease in regulatory amortization expenses, including approximately $187 million for the amortization of compliance costs related to North Carolina clean air legislation, which was completed in 2007. This decrease was partially offset by the write-off in 2007 of a portion of the investment in the GridSouth RTO (approximately $17 million) per a rate order from the NCUC.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase is due primarily to the equity component of AFUDC due to additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects and a favorable $25 million IURC ruling.  

EBIT. The increase resulted primarily from decreased regulatory amortization, the substantial completion of the required rate reductions due to the merger with Cinergy and increased AFUDC. These increases were partially offset by the impacts of the unfavorable economy on sales, milder weather, additional depreciation as rate base increased during 2008, higher operation and maintenance costs, overall net lower retail rates and rate riders, and the 2007 DOE settlement.  

Matters Impacting Future U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas Results  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas continues to increase the number of retail customers served, maintain low costs and deliver high-quality customer service in the Carolinas and Midwest; however, sales to all retail customer classes were negatively impacted by the economic downturn in 2008, particularly sales to the industrial and residential sector. These trends are expected to continue for some period into 2009, and perhaps beyond, until the economy begins to recover. The general decline in the textile industry in the Carolinas, exacerbated by the struggling economy, is also expected to continue in 2009, fueled by the expiration of certain import limitations related to foreign textile products.  

51  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

The North Carolina rate order resulting from the 2007 rate review included a one-time increment rider of approximately $80 million related to merger savings, effective for retail sales in 2008. The expiration of this rider will have an unfavorable impact on 2009 revenue. Various regulatory activities will continue in 2009. Additionally, Duke Energy Carolinas will continue to consider pursuing legislative initiatives that would allow more real-time recovery of costs. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” for information regarding various regulatory activities that could impact U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas in 2009, including the PUCO’s December 17, 2008 approval of Duke Energy Ohio’s ESP.  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment under the guidance of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets”. For further information on key assumptions that impact U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ goodwill impairment assessments, see Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment. As of the date of the 2008 annual impairment analysis, the fair value of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ reporting units exceeded their respective carrying value, thus no goodwill impairment charges were recorded. However, management is continuing to monitor the impact of recent market and economic events to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying value of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas reporting units have been impaired. Should any such triggering events or circumstances occur in 2009 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, management would perform an interim impairment assessment of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ goodwill and it is possible that goodwill impairment charges could be recorded as a result of these assessments. At December 31, 2008, the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment had goodwill of approximately $3.5 billion.  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006   

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $1,066 million increase in regulated revenues for the first quarter of 2007 due to the merger with Cinergy;  

   •    A $212 million increase in fuel revenues, including emission allowances, driven by increased fuel rates for retail customers and increased GWh sales to retail customers;  

   •    A $188 million increase in GWh sales to retail customers due to favorable weather conditions. For the Carolinas and Midwest, cooling degree days for 2007 were approximately 27% and 48% above normal, respectively, compared to close to normal in both regions during 2006;  

   •    An $82 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, due to increased sales volumes primarily due to additional long-term contracts;  

   •    A $57 million increase in retail rates and rate riders primarily related to the new electric base rates implemented in the first quarter of 2007 for Duke Energy Kentucky and the recovery of environmental compliance costs from retail customers in Indiana; and  

   •    A $40 million increase related to the sharing of anticipated merger savings through rate decrement riders with regulated customers, which was substantially completed prior to the third quarter of 2007.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    An $852 million increase in regulated operating expenses for the first quarter of 2007 due to the merger with Cinergy;  

   •    A $137 million increase in operating and maintenance expense primarily due to higher wage and benefit costs, including increased short-term incentive costs, and maintenance costs at fossil and nuclear generating plants, partially offset by a one time $12 million donation in the second quarter 2006 ordered by the NCUC as a condition of the Cinergy merger;  

   •    A $133 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily due to increased retail demand resulting from favorable weather conditions. Generation fueled by coal and natural gas, as well as purchases to meet retail customer requirements, increased significantly during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year. These increases were partially offset by a $21 million reimbursement for previously incurred fuel expenses resulting from a settlement between Duke Energy Carolinas and the U.S. Department of Justice resolving Duke Energy’s used nuclear fuel litigation against the Department of Energy (DOE). The settlement between the parties was finalized on March 6, 2007; and  

   •    A $40 million increase in depreciation due primarily to additional capital spending in the Carolinas.  

52  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $6 million net decrease in regulatory amortization expense primarily due to decreased amortization of compliance costs related to North Carolina clean air legislation during 2007 as compared to the prior year. Regulatory amortization expenses related to clean air were approximately $187 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to approximately $225 million during the same period in 2006. This decrease was partially offset by the write-off of a portion of the investment in the GridSouth RTO (approximately $17 million) per a rate order from the NCUC and Ohio’s regulatory amortization related to the rate transition charge rider and new demand side management (DSM) rider.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase is primarily attributable to the equity component of AFUDC earned from additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects.  

EBIT. The increase resulted primarily from the merger with Cinergy, favorable weather conditions, additional long-term wholesale contracts, increase in retail rates and rate riders and the substantial completion of the required rate reductions due to the merger with Cinergy. These increases were partially offset by increased operating and maintenance expenses and additional depreciation as rate base increased during 2007.  

Commercial Power  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as compared to December 31, 2007  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $21 million decrease in wholesale electric revenues due to lower hedge realization and lower generation volumes primarily resulting from increased plant outages in 2008 compared to 2007;  

   •    A $20 million decrease in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $72 million in 2008 compared to losses of $52 million in 2007; and  

   •    A $17 million decrease in revenues due to lower generation volumes from the Midwest gas-fired assets resulting from milder weather net of increased PJM capacity revenues in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    An $82 million impairment of emission allowances due to the invalidation of the CAIR in July 2008;  

   •    A $68 million increase in fuel expense due to mark-to-market losses on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $3 million in 2008 compared to gains of $65 million in 2007; and  

   •    A $14 million increase in plant maintenance expenses resulting from increased plant outages in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

   •    A $63 million decrease in emission allowance expenses due to lower cost basis emission allowances consumed and lower overall emission allowance consumption due to installation of flue gas desulfurization equipment and lower generation volumes due to increased plant outages in 2008 compared to 2007;  

   •    A $46 million decrease in net fuel and purchased power expense for retail load due to realized gains on fuel hedges partially offset by higher purchased power as a result of increased plant outages in 2008 compared to 2007; and  

53  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

   •    A $24 million decrease in fuel and operating expenses for the Midwest gas-fired assets primarily due to lower generation volumes and lower amortization of locked-in hedge losses in 2008 compared to 2007, net of an approximate $15 million bad debt reserve related to the Lehman Bros. bankruptcy and higher plant maintenance expenses.  

Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 is attributable to gains on sales of emission allowances in 2008 compared to losses on sales of emission allowances in 2007. Gains in 2008 were a result of sales of zero cost basis emission allowances, while losses in 2007 were as a result of sales of emission allowances acquired in connection with Duke Energy’s merger with Cinergy in 2006 which were written up to fair value as part of purchase accounting.  

EBIT. The decrease is primarily attributable to higher mark-to-market losses on economic hedges due to decreasing commodity prices, the impairment of emission allowances, lower retail and wholesale revenues resulting from lower volumes due to the weakening economy and plant outages. Partially offsetting these decreases were gains on sales of zero cost basis emission allowances, lower emission allowance expense due to lower cost basis emission allowances consumed and lower consumption due to installation of flue gas desulfurization equipment and lower purchase accounting expense primarily due to the RSP valuation.  

Matters Impacting Future Commercial Power Results  

Commercial Power’s current strategy is focused on maximizing the returns and cash flows from its current portfolio, as well as growing its non-regulated renewable energy portfolio. Results for Commercial Power are sensitive to changes in power supply, power demand, fuel prices and weather, as well as dependent upon completion of energy asset construction projects and tax credits on renewable energy production.  

Commercial Power’s generation operations in the Midwest include generation assets located in Ohio that are dedicated to serve Ohio native load customers. These assets, as excess capacity allows, also generate revenues through sales outside the native load customer base, and such revenue is termed non-native. Prior to December 17, 2008, Commercial Power did not apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71 due to the comprehensive electric deregulation legislation passed by the state of Ohio in 1999. As described further below, effective December 17, 2008, the PUCO approved Duke Energy Ohio’s ESP, which resulted in the reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of Commercial Power’s operations as of that date.  

From January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, Commercial Power had been operating under a RSP, which is a market-based standard service offer. Although the RSP contained certain trackers that enhanced the potential for cost recovery, there was no assurance of stranded cost recovery upon the expiration of the RSP on December 31, 2008 since it was initially anticipated that, upon the expiration of the RSP, there would be a move to full competitive markets. Accordingly, Commercial Power did not apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71 to any of its generation operations prior to December 17, 2008. In connection with the approval of the ESP, Duke Energy Ohio reassessed the applicability of SFAS No. 71 to Commercial Power’s generation operations as SB 221 substantially increased the PUCO’s oversight authority over generation in the state of Ohio, including giving the PUCO complete approval of generation rates and the establishment of an earnings test to determine if a utility has earned significantly excessive earnings. Duke Energy Ohio determined that certain costs and related rates (riders) of Commercial Power’s operations related to generation serving native load meet the criteria established by SFAS No. 71 for regulatory accounting treatment as SB 221 and Duke Energy’s approved ESP solidified the automatic recovery of certain costs of its generation serving native load and increased the likelihood that these operations will remain under a cost recovery model for certain costs for the foreseeable future.  

Under the ESP, Commercial Power will bill for its native load generation via numerous riders. SB 221 and the ESP resulted in the approval of the automatic recovery of certain of these riders, which includes, but is not limited to, a fuel and purchased power (FPP) rider and portions of a cost of environmental compliance (AAC) rider. Accordingly, Commercial Power began applying SFAS No. 71 to the corresponding RSP riders granting automatic recovery under the ESP on December 17, 2008. The remaining portions of Commercial Power’s Ohio native load generation operations, revenues from which are reflected in rate riders for which the ESP does not specifically allow automatic cost recovery, as well as all generation operations associated with non-native customers, including Commercial Power’s Midwest gas-fired generation assets, continue to not apply regulatory accounting as those operations do not meet the criteria of SFAS No. 71. Moreover, generation remains a competitive market in Ohio and native load customers continue to have the ability to switch to alternative supplier for their electric generation service. As customers switch, there is a risk that some or all of the regulatory assets will not be recovered through the established riders. The level of switching to date has been insignificant. Duke Energy Ohio will continue to monitor the amount of native load customers that have switched to alternative suppliers when assessing the recoverability of its regulatory assets established for its native load generation operations.  

54  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

As a result of the reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of Commercial Power’s operations, Commercial Power’s future results will be subject to less volatility that had been caused by the timing of under-and-over collections of certain costs, as well as the impacts of mark-to-market activity on certain coal and power derivatives.  

Commercial Power evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment under the guidance of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets”. For further information on key assumptions that impact Commercial Power’s goodwill impairment assessments, see Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment. As of the date of the 2008 annual impairment analysis, the fair value of Commercial Power’s reporting units exceeded their respective carrying value, thus no goodwill impairment charges were recorded. However, management is continuing to monitor the impact of recent market and economic events to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying value of Commercial Power’s reporting units have been impaired. Should any such triggering events or circumstances occur in 2009 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, management would perform an interim impairment assessment of Commercial Power’s goodwill and it is possible that goodwill impairment charges could be recorded as a result of these assessments. At December 31, 2008, the Commercial Power segment had goodwill of approximately $960 million.  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as compared to December 31, 2006  

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $387 million increase related to the non-regulated generation assets of former Cinergy, including the impacts of purchase accounting, which reflects the first quarter 2007 operating revenues for which there was zero in the comparable period in the prior year as a result of the merger in April 2006;  

   •    A $185 million increase in retail electric revenues due to higher retail pricing principally related to the time of collections on fuel and purchased power (FPP) rider and increased retail demand resulting from favorable weather in 2007 compared to 2006; and  

   •    A $134 million increase in revenues due to higher generation volumes and capacity revenues from the Midwest gas-fired assets resulting from favorable weather in 2007 compared to 2006.  

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

   •    A $111 million decrease in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $52 million in 2007 compared to gains of $59 million in 2006; and  

   •    A $35 million decrease in revenues from sales of fuel due to lower volumes in 2007 compared to 2006.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $327 million increase related to the non-regulated generation assets of former Cinergy, including the impacts of purchase accounting, which reflects the first quarter 2007 operating expenses for which there was zero in the comparable period in the prior year as a result of the merger with Cinergy in April 2006;  

   •    A $116 million increase in fuel expenses for the Midwest gas-fired assets primarily due to increased generation volumes in 2007 compared to 2006; and  

   •    A $36 million increase in operating expenses primarily due to increased plant maintenance in 2007.  

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

   •    A $114 million decrease in net mark-to-market expenses on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market gains of $65 million in 2007 compared to losses of $49 million in 2006; and  

   •    A $30 million decrease in expenses associated with sales of fuel due to lower volumes in 2007 compared to 2006.  

Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. Decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 is attributable to lower losses on emission allowance sales in 2007 due to lower sales activity in 2007 compared to 2006.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease is driven by lower equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates.  

EBIT. The improvement is primarily attributable to higher retail margins resulting largely from favorable timing of fuel and purchase power recoveries, increased retail demand as a result of favorable weather and improved results from the Midwest gas-fired assets as a result of higher generation volumes and increased capacity revenues. These favorable variances were partially offset by higher expenses from increased plant maintenance in 2007.  

55  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

International Energy  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $60 million increase in Brazil due to higher sales prices, higher demand and favorable exchange rates;  

   •    A $49 million increase in Guatemala and El Salvador due to favorable sales prices partially offset by lower dispatch; and  

   •    A $15 million increase in Argentina due to favorable sales prices as a result of higher demand.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $70 million increase in Guatemala and El Salvador primarily due to higher fuel prices;  

   •    A $57 million increase in Peru primarily due to higher purchased power, fuel costs, and royalty fees due to unfavorable hydrology and higher oil reference pricing; and  

   •    A $15 million increase in Argentina due to higher gas and power marketing purchases and increased fuel prices.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $24 million decrease in Ecuador due to lower fuel consumption and maintenance costs as a result of lower thermal dispatch and the reversal of a bad debt allowance as a result of collection of an arbitration award; and  

   •    A $5 million decrease in Brazil due to a transmission credit adjustment and reversal of a bad debt allowance as a result of a customer settlement, partially offset by unfavorable exchange rates.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was driven primarily by a $16 million increase in equity earnings at NMC as a result of higher pricing and volumes for both methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) and approximately $9 million of increased equity earnings at Attiki due to a hedge termination.  

EBIT. The increase in EBIT was primarily due to higher average prices, increased demand, and favorable exchange rates in Brazil, higher MTBE and methanol margins and sales volumes at NMC; partially offset by unfavorable hydrology, higher royalty fees and the lack of the 2007 transmission congestion in Peru, and unfavorable results in Guatemala, primarily due to higher fuel prices and maintenance costs.  

Matters Impacting Future International Energy Results   

International Energy’s current strategy is focused on selectively growing its Latin American power generation business while continuing to maximize the returns and cash flow from its current portfolio. EBIT results for International Energy are sensitive to changes in hydrology, power supply, power demand, and fuel and commodity prices. Regulatory matters can also impact EBIT results, as well as impacts from fluctuations in exchange rates, most notably the Brazilian Real.  

Certain of International Energy’s long-term sales contracts and long-term debt in Brazil contain inflation adjustment clauses. While this is favorable to revenue in the long run, as International Energy’s contract prices are adjusted, there is an unfavorable impact on interest expense resulting from revaluation of International Energy’s outstanding local currency debt.  

56  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

The results of International Energy’s earnings from projects accounted for on the equity method are loosely correlated to the price of crude oil and other commodities. As a result of the decline in oil and other commodity prices, International Energy anticipates that earnings from equity projects, which contributed approximately $127 million of EBIT in 2008, will be lower in 2009 than in 2008.  

International Energy evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment under the guidance of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets”. For further information on key assumptions that impact International Energy’s goodwill impairment assessments, see Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment. As of the date of the 2008 annual impairment analysis, the fair value of International Energy’s reporting units exceeded their respective carrying value, thus no goodwill impairment charges were recorded. However, management is continuing to monitor the impact of recent market and economic events, including the impacts of foreign exchange rates in all jurisdictions, as well as the impacts of commodity prices, such as crude oil, on the results of NMC, to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying value of International Energy’s reporting units have been impaired. Should any such triggering events or circumstances occur in 2009 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, management would perform an interim impairment assessment of International Energy’s goodwill and it is possible that goodwill impairment charges could be recorded as a result of these assessments. At December 31, 2008, the International Energy segment had goodwill of approximately $260 million.  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    An $81 million increase in Brazil due to higher sales prices and favorable exchange rates;  

   •    A $37 million increase in Guatemala due to higher prices and volumes as a result of increased thermal dispatch; and  

   •    A $27 million increase in Peru due to higher spot prices as a result of transmission line congestion.  

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

   •    An $18 million decrease in Ecuador due to decreased sales as a result of lower thermal dispatch; and  

   •    A $5 million decrease in Argentina due to lower sales volumes resulting from unfavorable hydrology, partially offset by higher average sales prices.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $100 million decrease due to a prior year reserve established as a result of a settlement made in conjunction with the Citrus litigation;  

   •    A $43 million decrease in Mexico due primarily to a $33 million impairment charge on the notes receivable from the Campeche equity investment in 2006; and  

   •    An $11 million decrease in Ecuador due to lower fuel used as a result of lower generation.  

Partially offsetting these decreases were:  

   •    A $50 million increase in Brazil primarily due to higher exchange rates and higher regulatory and purchased power costs;  

   •    A $37 million increase in Guatemala due to increased fuel used as a result of higher dispatch and higher maintenance costs as a result of unplanned outages; and  

   •    An $8 million increase in Argentina due to higher maintenance costs.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was driven primarily by a $26 million increase in equity earnings at NMC as a result of higher methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) margins, as well as the absence of a $17 million impairment of the Campeche equity investment recorded in 2006.  

EBIT. The increase in EBIT was primarily due to a prior year reserve established as a result of a settlement made in conjunction with the Citrus litigation, a prior year impairment of the Campeche equity investment and note receivable reserve, favorable prices in Peru due to transmission line congestion, favorable prices and net foreign exchange impacts offset by higher regulatory costs in Brazil and higher equity earnings at National Methanol, partially offset by higher maintenance costs and unfavorable hydrology in Argentina.  

57  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Other  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent was a reportable business segment of Duke Energy. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent is no longer considered an operating segment of Duke Energy as Duke Energy’s chief operating decision maker no longer reviews Crescent’s operating results in order to make resource allocation decisions and evaluate its performance. Accordingly, the results of Crescent have been included in Other for all periods presented. As a result of Duke Energy recording its proportionate share of Crescent’s impairment losses, the carrying value of Duke Energy’s investment in Crescent has been reduced to zero at December 31, 2008. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, in accordance with Accounting Principles Bulletin (APB) 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock,” Duke Energy suspended applying the equity method of accounting to its investment in Crescent since its investment has been reduced to zero. Accordingly, Duke Energy will not record additional losses related to its investment in Crescent. However, should Crescent begin reporting net income in future periods, Duke Energy may resume applying the equity method of accounting after its proportionate share of that net income equals the share of net losses not recognized during the period the equity method was suspended.  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007  

Operating Revenues. The reduction was driven primarily by higher premiums earned by Bison in 2007 related to the assumption of liabilities by Bison from other Duke Energy business units.  

Operating Expenses. The reduction was primarily driven by the establishment of reserves related to liabilities assumed by Bison from other Duke Energy business units in 2007 with no comparable charges in 2008, a prior year donation to the Duke Foundation, reduced benefit costs, and decreased severance costs. These favorable variances were partially offset by a prior year benefit related to contract settlement negotiations and unfavorable property loss experience at Bison.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase in net expense was primarily driven by approximately $230 million of losses at Crescent in 2008 compared to earnings of approximately $38 million in 2007 due to Duke Energy recording its proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by Crescent and lower earnings as a result of the downturn in the real estate market, unfavorable returns on investments related to executive life insurance and lower investment income at Bison, partially offset by prior year convertible debt charges of approximately $21 million related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy with no comparable charges in 2008.  

EBIT. The decrease was due to Duke Energy’s proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by Crescent and lower overall earnings at Crescent, a prior year benefit related to contract settlement negotiations, unfavorable investment returns and unfavorable property loss experience at Bison, partially offset by a prior year donation to Duke Foundation, prior year convertible debt charges, decreased severance costs and reduced benefits costs.  

58  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Matters Impacting Future Other Results  

Other’s future results could be impacted by continued volatility in the debt and equity markets and other economic conditions, which could result in the recording of other-than-temporary impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of investments in debt and equity securities, including certain investments in auction rate debt securities, to their estimated fair value. Duke Energy analyzes all investments in debt and equity securities to determine whether a decline in fair value should be considered other-than-temporary. Criteria used to evaluate whether an impairment is other-than-temporary includes, but is not limited to, the length of time over which the market value has been lower than the cost basis of the investment, the percentage decline compared to the cost of the investment and management’s intent and ability to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.  

Duke Energy has guaranteed approximately $100 million of outstanding surety bonds and letters of credit related to projects at Crescent. This amount represents the face value of the guarantees; however, Crescent has already completed a substantial portion of its obligations under these guarantees. As of December 31, 2008, it is reasonably possible that Duke Energy could have exposure of approximately $40 million under these guarantees should Crescent fail to perform under its obligations associated with these projects, which would become more likely should Crescent declare bankruptcy in the near future. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates and Related Party Transactions,” for a discussion of impairment losses recorded by Crescent during 2008 and Crescent’s significant debt obligations as of December 31, 2008.  

Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $221 million decrease due to the deconsolidation of Crescent effective September 7, 2006.  

Partially offsetting this decrease was:  

   •    A $15 million increase related to revenues earned for services performed for Spectra Energy, and  

   •    A $14 million increase related to DETM, primarily driven by mark-to-market activity.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $160 million decrease due to the deconsolidation of Crescent effective September 7, 2006;  

   •    A $110 million decrease related to contract settlement negotiations. Duke Energy was party to an agreement with a third party service provider related to certain future purchases. The agreement contained certain damage payment provisions if qualifying purchases were not initiated by September 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Duke Energy initiated early settlement discussions regarding this agreement and recorded a reserve of approximately $65 million. During the year ended December 31, 2007, Duke Energy paid the third party service provider approximately $20 million, which directly reduced Duke Energy’s future exposure under the agreement, and further reduced the reserve by $45 million based upon qualifying purchase commitments that fulfilled Duke Energy’s obligations under the agreement.  

   •    A $74 million decrease in costs to achieve related to the Cinergy merger;  

   •    A $50 million decrease at Bison due primarily to lower charges for mutual insurance exit obligations of approximately $76 million, partially offset by higher operating expenses of approximately $26 million;  

   •    A $42 million decrease in governance and other corporate costs, including prior year shared services cost allocations to Spectra Energy not classified as discontinued operations; and  

   •    A $22 million decrease in amortization costs related to Crescent capitalized interest.  

Partially offsetting these decreases were:  

   •    A $25 million increase due to a donation to the Duke Foundation, a non-profit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected non-profits and government subdivisions; and  

   •    A $12 million increase related to employee severance costs.  

Gains on sales of investments in Commercial and Multi-family real estate. The decrease was due to the deconsolidation of Crescent effective September 7, 2006.  

Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The decrease was driven primarily by a $246 million pre-tax gain resulting from the sale of and effective 50% interest in Crescent.  

59  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease was driven primarily by convertible debt charges of approximately $21 million related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy, partially offset by a $9 million increase due to the deconsolidation of Crescent effective September 7, 2006 and an increase in investment returns related to executive life insurance of $8 million.  

EBIT. The decrease was primarily driven by a gain on the sale of ownership interest in Crescent in the third quarter 2006 and lower results due to the downturn in the real estate market, an increase in captive insurance expenses, a donation to the Duke Foundation, convertible debt charges related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy and employee severance charges, partially offset by contract settlement negotiations, lower charges for mutual insurance exit obligations, the reduction of costs to achieve related to the Cinergy merger, lower governance and other corporate costs and a decrease in amortization costs related to Crescent capitalized interest.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

The application of accounting policies and estimates is an important process that continues to evolve as Duke Energy’s operations change and accounting guidance evolves. Duke Energy has identified a number of critical accounting policies and estimates that require the use of significant estimates and judgments.  

Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on other various assumptions that they believe are reasonable at the time of application. The estimates and judgments may change as time passes and more information about Duke Energy’s environment becomes available. If estimates and judgments are different than the actual amounts recorded, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to take into consideration the new information. Duke Energy discusses its critical accounting policies and estimates and other significant accounting policies with senior members of management and the audit committee, as appropriate. Duke Energy’s critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed below.  

Regulatory Accounting  

Duke Energy accounts for certain of its regulated operations (primarily U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and certain portions of Commercial Power) under the provisions of SFAS No. 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation.” As a result, Duke Energy records assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recorded under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for non-regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that either are not likely to or have yet to be incurred. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. Based on this continual assessment, management believes the existing regulatory assets are probable of recovery. This assessment reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the state and federal levels, and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Additionally, the regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, nuclear decommissioning costs and amortization of regulatory assets. Total regulatory assets were $4,077 million as of December 31, 2008 and $2,645 million as of December 31, 2007. Total regulatory liabilities were $2,678 as of December 31, 2008 and $2,674 million as of December 31, 2007. For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”  

In order to apply the accounting provisions of SFAS No. 71 and record regulatory assets and liabilities, the scope criteria in SFAS No. 71 must be met. Management makes significant judgments in determining whether the scope criteria of SFAS No. 71 are met for its operations, including determining whether revenue rates for services provided to customers are subject to approval by an independent, third-party regulator, whether the regulated rates are designed to recover specific costs of providing the regulated service, and a determination of whether, in view of the demand for the regulated services and the level of competition, it is reasonable to assume that rates set at levels that will recover the operations’ costs can be charged to and collected from customers. This final criterion requires consideration of anticipated changes in levels of demand or competition, direct and indirect, during the recovery period for any capitalized costs. If facts and circumstances change so that a portion of Duke Energy’s regulated operations meet all of the scope criteria set forth in SFAS No. 71 when such criteria had not been previously met, SFAS No. 71 would be reapplied to all or a separable portion of the operations. Such reapplication includes adjusting the balance sheet for amounts that meet the definition of a regulatory asset or regulatory liability of SFAS 71.  

Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants in the Midwestern United States. Commercial Power’s generation asset fleet consists of Duke Energy Ohio’s generation in Ohio, primarily coal-fired assets, that are dedicated to serve Ohio native load   

60  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 customers (native load), and five Midwestern gas-fired non-regulated generation assets that are not dedicated to serve Ohio native load customers (non-native). The non-native generation operations are not accounted for under SFAS No. 71 as these operations do not meet the scope criteria. Most of the generation asset native load output in Ohio was contracted through the RSP through December 31, 2008. As discussed further in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, specifically Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 4, “Regulatory Matters”, beginning on December 17, 2008, Commercial Power reapplied the provisions of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of its native load operations due to the passing of SB 221 and the approval of the ESP. However, other portions of Commercial Power’s native load operations continue to not meet the scope criteria of SFAS No. 71, as certain costs of the native load operations do not result in a rate structure designed to recover the specific costs of that portion of the operations. Despite certain portions of the Ohio native load operations not being subject to the accounting provisions of SFAS No. 71, all of Commercial Power’s Ohio native load operations’ rates are such to approval by the PUCO, and thus these operations are referred to here-in as Commercial Power’s regulated operations. Moreover, generation remains a competitive market in Ohio and native load customers continue to have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service. As customers switch, there is a risk that some or all of Commercial Power’s regulatory assets will not be recovered through the established riders. Duke Energy will continue to monitor the amount of native load customers that have switched to alternative suppliers when assessing the recoverability of its regulatory assets established for its native load generation operations.  

No other operations within Commercial Power, and no operations within the International Energy business segment, meet the criteria for accounting under SFAS No. 71.  

Substantially all of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’s operations meet the scope criteria in SFAS No. 71 and thus its costs of business and related revenues can result in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities, as described above.  

Goodwill Impairment Assessments  

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy had goodwill balances of $4,720 million and $4,642 million, respectively. Duke Energy evaluates the impairment of goodwill under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS No. 142). The majority of Duke Energy’s goodwill at December 31, 2008 and 2007 relates to the acquisition of Cinergy in April 2006, whose assets are primarily included in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. The remainder relates to International Energy’s Latin American operations. As of the acquisition date, Duke Energy allocates goodwill to a reporting unit, which Duke Energy defines as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. As required by SFAS No. 142, Duke Energy performs an annual goodwill impairment test and updates the test between annual tests if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Duke Energy performs its annual impairment assessment as of August 31 each year. Duke Energy primarily uses a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of its reporting units. Key assumptions used in the analysis include, but are not limited to, the use of an appropriate discount rate, estimated future cash flows and estimated run rates of operation, maintenance, and general and administrative costs. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory stability and ability to renew contracts, as well as other factors, into its revenue and expense forecasts. Duke Energy did not record any impairment on its goodwill as a result of the 2008, 2007 or 2006 impairment tests required by SFAS No. 142.  

One of the most significant assumptions that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units is the discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows. Management determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the cost of equity and pre-tax cost of debt. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including factors such as regulation, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. In determining the appropriate WACC for each of Duke Energy’s reporting units, Duke Energy considered current and historical market data for risk free interest rates over a 10-year period and applied an appropriate equity risk premium for the equity component of the WACC, and utilized credit ratings and appropriate risk premiums for the debt component. Duke Energy also considered implied WACC’s for certain peer companies in determining the appropriate WACC rates to use. The discount rates used for calculating the fair values as of August 31, 2008 for each of Duke Energy’s domestic reporting units were commensurate with the risks associated with each reporting unit and ranged from 6.75% to 8%. For Duke Energy’s international operations, a base discount rate of 8% was used, with specific adders used for each separate jurisdiction in which International Energy operates to reflect the differing risk profiles of the jurisdictions. This resulted in discount rates for the August 31, 2008 goodwill impairment test for the international operations ranging from 8.6% to 12.2%.  

Additionally, estimated future cash flows are based on Duke Energy’s internal business plan. Duke Energy’s internal business plan reflects management’s assumptions related to customer usage and attrition based on internal data and economic data obtained from third party sources, as well as projected commodity pricing data. The business plan assumes the occurrence of certain events in the   

61  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of returns on equity, anticipated earnings/returns related to significant future capital investments, continued recovery of cost of service and the renewal of certain contracts. Management also makes assumptions regarding the run rate of operation, maintenance and general and administrative costs based on the expected outcome of the aforementioned events. Should the actual outcome of some or all of these assumptions differ significantly from the current assumptions, revisions to current cash flow assumptions could cause the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units to be significantly different in future periods.  

These underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time; subsequent changes, particularly changes in the discount rates or growth rates inherent in management’s estimates of future cash flows, could result in a future impairment charge to goodwill. Management continues to remain alert for any indicators that the fair value of a reporting unit could be below book value and will assess goodwill for impairment as appropriate.  

The impairment analysis as of August 31, 2008 did not indicate that the fair value of any of Duke Energy’s reporting units were less than its book value. As an overall test of the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of the reporting units, Duke Energy reconciled the combined fair value estimates of its reporting units to its market capitalization as of August 31, 2008. The reconciliation confirmed that the fair values were reasonably representative of market views when applying a reasonable control premium to the market capitalization. Additionally, Duke Energy would perform an interim impairment assessment should any events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Subsequent to August 31, 2008, management did not identify any indicators of potential impairment that required an update to the annual impairment assessment. This reflects the fact that the majority of Duke Energy’s business is in environments that are either fully or partially rate-regulated. In such environments, revenue requirements are adjusted periodically by regulators based on factors including levels of costs, sales volumes and costs of capital. Accordingly, Duke Energy operates to some degree with a buffer from the direct effects, positive or negative, of significant swings in market or economic conditions. However, management will continue to monitor changes in the business, as well as overall market conditions and economic factors that could require additional impairment assessments.  

Revenue Recognition  

Revenues on sales of electricity and gas, primarily at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, are recognized when either the service is provided or the product is delivered. Unbilled revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue/kilowatt-hour or per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) for all customer classes to the number of estimated kilowatt-hours or Mcf’s delivered but not billed. The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly period to period as a result of factors including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns and customer mix. Unbilled revenues, which are recorded as Receivables in Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $360 million and $380 million, respectively.  

Accounting for Loss Contingencies  

Duke Energy is involved in certain legal and environmental matters that arise in the normal course of business. In the preparation of its consolidated financial statements, management makes judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and records a loss contingency based on the accounting guidance set forth in SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” (SFAS No. 5), which requires a loss contingency to be recognized when it is determined that it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Management regularly reviews current information available to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts and scenarios that often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties, such as federal, state and local courts and other regulators. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long periods of time. Amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may differ from the actual outcome once the contingency is resolved, which could have a material impact on future results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has experienced numerous claims for indemnification and medical cost reimbursement relating to damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen from the exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with construction and maintenance activities conducted by Duke Energy Carolinas on its electric generation plants prior to 1985.  

Amounts recognized as asbestos-related reserves related to Duke Energy Carolinas in the Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled approximately $1,031 million and $1,082 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and are classified in Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities and Other within Current Liabilities. These reserves are based upon the minimum amount in Duke Energy’s best estimate of the range of loss for current and future asbestos claims through 2027. Management believes that it is possible there will be additional claims filed against Duke Energy Carolinas after 2027. In light of the uncertainties inherent in a longer-term fore-  

62  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 cast, management does not believe that they can reasonably estimate the indemnity and medical costs that might be incurred after 2027 related to such potential claims. Asbestos-related loss estimates incorporate anticipated inflation, if applicable, and are recorded on an undiscounted basis. These reserves are based upon current estimates and are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, the nature of the alleged injury, and the average cost of resolving each such claim could change our estimated liability, as could any substantial adverse or favorable verdict at trial. A federal legislative solution, further state tort reform or structured settlement transactions could also change the estimated liability. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting matters into the future and numerous other factors outside our control, management believes that it is possible Duke Energy Carolinas may incur asbestos liabilities in excess of the recorded reserves.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas’ asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy’s third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,099 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of approximately $1,032 million and $1,040 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

For further information, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Accounting for Income Taxes  

Duke Energy accounts for income taxes under SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” (SFAS No. 109) and FIN 48. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the book basis and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. If future utilization of deferred tax assets is uncertain, Duke Energy may record a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets.  

Prior to the adoption of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007, Duke Energy recorded tax contingencies based on the accounting guidance set forth in SFAS No. 5, which requires a contingency to be both probable and reasonably estimable for a loss to be recorded. Upon adoption of FIN 48, Duke Energy began recording unrecognized tax benefits for positions taken or expected to be taken on tax returns, including the decision to exclude certain income or transactions from a return, when a more-likely-than-not threshold is met for a tax position and management believes that the position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. In accordance with FIN 48, Duke Energy records the largest amount of the unrecognized tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant management judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management reevaluates tax positions each period in which new information about recognition or measurement becomes available.  

Significant management judgment is required in determining Duke Energy’s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and the valuation recorded against Duke Energy’s net deferred tax assets, if any. In assessing the likelihood of realization of deferred tax assets, management considers estimates of the amount and character of future taxable income. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, Duke Energy’s forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. Although management believes current estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates.  

For further information, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Income Taxes.”  

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits  

Duke Energy accounts for its defined benefit pension plans using SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,” (SFAS No. 158). Under SFAS No. 87, pension income/expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees’ approximate service periods. Other post-retirement benefits are accounted for using SFAS No. 106, “Employers ‘ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,” (SFAS No. 106).  

63  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

In accordance with the measurement date provision of SFAS No. 158, in 2007, Duke Energy changed its measurement date from September 30 to December 31.  

Funding requirements for defined benefit (DB) plans are determined by government regulations, not SFAS No. 87. Duke Energy made voluntary contributions to its DB retirement plans of zero in 2008, $350 million in 2007 and $124 million in 2006. In the first quarter of 2009, Duke Energy made a voluntary contribution to its DB retirement plans in 2009 of $500 million. Additionally, during 2007, Duke Energy contributed approximately $62 million to its other post-retirement benefit plans.  

The calculation of pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and Duke Energy’s pension and other post-retirement liabilities require the use of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and reported liability amounts, and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes that the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. Additionally, medical and prescription drug cost trend rate assumptions are critical to Duke Energy’s estimates of other post-retirement benefits. The prescription drug trend rate assumption resulted from the effect of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act (Modernization Act).  

Duke Energy Plans  

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries (including legacy Cinergy businesses) maintain non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans (Plans). The Plans cover most U.S. employees using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits that are based upon a percentage (which may vary with age and years of service) of current eligible earnings and current interest credits. Certain legacy Cinergy employees are covered under plans that use a final average earnings formula. Under a final average earnings formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit equal to a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings, plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings in excess of covered compensation per year of participation (maximum of 35 years), plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings times years of participation in excess of 35 years. Duke Energy also maintains non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans which cover certain executives.  

Duke Energy and most of its subsidiaries also provide some health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory basis. Employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans.  

Duke Energy recognized pre-tax qualified pension cost of $46 million in 2008. In 2009, Duke Energy’s qualified pension cost is expected to be approximately $40 million lower than in 2008 as a result of the aforementioned approximate $500 million 2009 DB retirement plan contribution. Non-qualified pension cost and other post-retirement benefits cost are expected to remain approximately the same as 2008.  

For both pension and other post-retirement plans, Duke Energy assumed that its plan’s assets would generate a long-term rate of return of 8.5% as of December 31, 2008. The assets for Duke Energy’s pension and other post-retirement plans are maintained in a master trust. The investment objective of the master trust is to achieve reasonable returns on trust assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for plan participants. The asset allocation target was set after considering the investment objective and the risk profile with respect to the trust. U.S. equities are held for their high expected return. Non-U.S. equities, debt securities, and real estate are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are to be diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers or investments. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to its targeted allocation when considered appropriate.  

The expected long-term rate of return of 8.5% for the plan’s assets was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers. The weighted average returns expected by asset classes were 3.1% for U.S. equities, 2.8% for Non U.S. equities, 2.5% for fixed income securities, and 0.3% for real estate.  

If Duke Energy had used a long-term rate of 8.25% in 2008, pre-tax pension expense would have been higher by approximately $10 million and pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been higher by less than $1 million. If Duke Energy had used a long-term rate of 8.75% pre-tax pension expense would have been lower by approximately $10 million and pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been lower by less than $1 million. Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a rate of 6.50% as of December 31, 2008.  

64  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a medical care trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in medical health care costs. Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a prescription drug trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug health care costs. As of December 31, 2008, the medical care trend rates were 8.50%, which grades to 5.00% by 2013. As of December 31, 2008, the prescription drug trend rate was 11.00%, which grades to 5.00% by 2022. If Duke Energy had used health care trend rates one percentage point higher, pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been higher by $3 million. If Duke Energy had used health care trend rates one percentage point lower, pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been lower by $2 million.  

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy’s pension and post-retirement plans will impact Duke Energy’s future pension expense and liabilities. Management cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future.  

For further information, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans.”  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Known Trends and Uncertainties  

At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $1.0 billion, partially offset by approximately $543 million of short-term notes payable and commercial paper, which includes approximately $279 million of borrowings by Duke Energy Ohio under the master credit facility. To fund its liquidity and capital requirements during 2009, Duke Energy will rely primarily upon cash flows from operations, borrowings, equity issuances to fund the dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) and other internal plans and its existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. The relatively stable operating cash flows of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas business segment compose a substantial portion of Duke Energy’s cash flows from operations and it is anticipated that it will continue to do so for the next several years. A material adverse change in operations, or in available financing, could impact Duke Energy’s ability to fund its current liquidity and capital resource requirements.  

Ultimate cash flows from operations are subject to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends, and market volatility (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for details).  

Duke Energy projects 2009 capital and investment expenditures of approximately $4.8 billion, primarily consisting of:  

   •    $3.8 billion at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  

   •    $0.6 billion at Commercial Power  

   •    $0.3 billion at International and  

   •    $0.1 billion at Other  

Duke Energy continues to focus on reducing risk and positioning its business for future success and will invest principally in its strongest business sectors with an overall focus on positive net cash generation. Based on this goal, approximately 75 percent of total projected 2009 capital expenditures are allocated to the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. Total U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas projected 2009 capital and investment expenditures include approximately $1.9 billion for system growth, $1.5 billion for maintenance and upgrades of existing plants and infrastructure to serve load growth, approximately $0.2 billion of environmental expenditures, and approximately $0.2 billion of nuclear fuel.  

With respect to the 2009 capital expenditure plan, Duke Energy has flexibility within its $4.8 billion budget to defer or eliminate certain spending should the broad economy continue to deteriorate. Of the $4.8 billion budget, approximately $2.6 billion relates to projects for which management has committed capital, including, but not limited to, the continued construction of Cliffside Unit 6 and the Edwardsport IGCC plant, and management intends to spend those capital dollars in 2009 irrespective of broader economic factors. Approximately $2.1 billion of projected 2009 capital expenditures are expected to be used primarily for overall system maintenance, customer connections, and corporate expenditures. Although these expenditures are ultimately necessary to ensure overall system maintenance and reliability, the timing of the expenditures may be influenced by broad economic conditions and customer growth, thus management has more flexibility in terms of when these dollars are actually spent. The remaining planned 2009 capital expenditures of approximately $0.1 billion are of a discretionary nature and relate to growth opportunities in which Duke Energy may invest, provided there are opportunities to meet return expectations along with assurance of constructive regulatory treatment in the regulated businesses.  

65  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

As a result of Duke Energy’s significant commitment to modernize its generating fleet through the construction of new units, as well as its focus on increasing its renewable energy portfolio, the ability to cost effectively manage the construction phase of current and future projects is critical to ensuring full and timely recovery of costs of construction. Should Duke Energy encounter significant cost overruns above amounts approved by the various state commissions, and those amounts are disallowed for recovery in rates, future cash flows could be adversely impacted.  

Duke Energy anticipates its debt to total capitalization ratio to remain at approximately 41% in 2009. In January 2009, Duke Energy issued $750 million principal amount of senior notes. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. In 2009, Duke Energy currently anticipates issuing approximately $1.4 billion of additional debt at the operating subsidiary level, primarily for the purpose of funding capital expenditures. Due to the flexibility in the timing of projected 2009 capital expenditures, the timing and amount of debt issuances throughout 2009 could be influenced by changes in the timing of capital spending. Additionally, Duke Energy plans to generate approximately $350 million of cash from the issuance of common stock under its DRIP and other internal plans. In February 2009, Duke Energy made an approximate $500 million contribution to its pension plan.  

At this time, Duke Energy does not believe the recent market developments significantly impact its ability to obtain financing and fully expects to have access to liquidity in the capital markets at reasonable rates and terms. Additionally, Duke Energy has access to unsecured revolving credit facilities, which are not restricted upon general market conditions, with aggregate bank commitments of approximately $3.14 billion. At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy has available borrowing capacity of approximately $1.2 billion under this facility. Management currently believes that amounts available under its revolving credit facility are accessible should there be a need to generate additional short-term financing in 2009, such as the issuance of commercial paper; however, due to the sustained downturn in overall economic conditions, specifically in the financial services sector, there is no guarantee that commitments provided by financial institutions under the revolving credit facility will be available if needed. Management expects that cash flows from operations, issuances of debt and cash generated from the issuance of common stock under the DRIP and other internal plans will be sufficient to cover the 2009 funding requirements related to capital and investments expenditures, dividend payments and the contribution to the pension plan.  

Duke Energy monitors compliance with all debt covenants and restrictions and does not currently believe it will be in violation or breach of its significant debt covenants during 2009. However, circumstances could arise that may alter that view. If and when management had a belief that such potential breach could exist, appropriate action would be taken to mitigate any such issue. Duke Energy also maintains an active dialogue with the credit rating agencies.  

Operating Cash Flows  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,328 million in 2008, compared to $3,208 million in 2007, an increase in cash provided of $120 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was driven primarily by:  

   •    An approximate $412 million decrease in contributions to Duke Energy’s pension plan and other post retirement benefit plans, partially offset by  

   •    Net income of $1,362 million in 2008 compared to $1,500 million in 2007  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,208 million in 2007, compared to $3,748 million in 2006, a decrease in cash provided of $540 million. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was driven primarily by:  

   •    The spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007,  

   •    The deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006, and  

   •    A $250 million increase in contributions to Duke Energy’s pension plan and other post retirement benefit plans in 2007, partially offset by  

   •    The impact of a full year of Cinergy operations in 2007 compared to nine months in 2006.  

66  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Investing Cash Flows  

Net cash used in investing activities was $4,611 million in 2008, $2,151 million in 2007, and $1,328 million in 2006.  

The primary use of cash related to investing activities is capital and investment expenditures, detailed by reportable business segment in the following table.  

Capital, Investment and Acquisition Expenditures by Business Segment  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts include capital expenditures associated with North Carolina clean air legislation of $355 million in 2008, $418 million in 2007 and $403 million in 2006, which are included in Capital Expenditures within Cash Flows from Investing Activities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  

 (b) On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses. The natural gas businesses spun off primarily consisted of Duke Energy’s Natural Gas Transmission business segment and Duke Energy’s 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream, which was part of the Field Services business segment.  

 (c) Other includes Crescent and only reflects capital expenditure amounts in 2006 for periods prior to deconsolidation on September 7, 2006. Additionally, amounts include capital expenditures associated with residential real estate of $322 million for the period from January 1, 2006 through the date of deconsolidation, which is included in Capital Expenditures for Residential Real Estate within Cash Flows from Operating Activities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  

The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2008 as compared to 2007 is primarily due to the following:  

   •    An approximate $1,640 million increase in capital and investment expenditures, due primarily to capital expansion projects, the acquisition of Catamount Energy Corporation (approximately $245 million) and the purchase of a portion of Saluda River Electric Cooperative, Inc.’s ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station in 2008 (approximately $150 million),  

   •    An approximate $875 million decrease in proceeds from available-for-sale securities, net of purchases, due to net proceeds of approximately $100 million in 2008 compared to net proceeds of approximately $975 million in 2007, primarily as a result of investing excess cash obtained from the issuances of debt during 2008 versus utilizing short-term investments as a source of cash in 2007, and  

   •    An approximate $60 million decrease in proceeds from asset sales.  

These increases in cash used were partially offset by the following:  

   •    An approximate $100 million increase in proceeds from the sale of emission allowances, net of purchases.  

The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2007 as compared to 2006 is primarily due to the following:  

   •    Approximately $1,600 million in proceeds received from the sale of former DENA assets in 2006,  

   •    Approximately $700 million in proceeds received from the sale of Cinergy commercial marketing and trading operations in 2006,  

   •    Approximately $380 million in proceeds received from the sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent in 2006,  

   •    An approximate $250 million decrease in proceeds from the sales of commercial and multi-family real estate due to the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006, and  

   •    Approximately $150 million of cash received in 2006 as part of the Cinergy merger.  

These increases in cash used were partially offset by the following:  

An approximate $1,800 million increase in proceeds from available-for sale securities, net of purchases, and  

An approximate $470 million decrease in capital and investment expenditures, in part reflecting the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007.  

67  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Financing Cash Flows and Liquidity  

Duke Energy’s consolidated capital structure as of December 31, 2008, including short-term debt, was 41% debt and 59% common equity. The fixed charges coverage ratio, calculated using SEC guidelines, was 3.4 times for 2008, 3.7 times for 2007, and 2.6 times for 2006, which includes a pre-tax gain of approximately $250 million on the sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent.  

Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,591 million in 2008 compared to $1,327 million of cash used in 2007, an increase in cash provided of $2,918 million. The change was due primarily to the following:  

   •    An approximate $3,090 million increase in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt, net of redemptions, as a result of net issuances of approximately $2,665 million during 2008 as compared to net repayments of approximately $425 million during 2007,  

   •    An approximate $400 million increase due to the distribution of cash in 2007 related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy,  

   •    An approximate $110 million increase due to payments for the redemption of convertible notes in 2007, and  

   •    An approximate $80 million increase in proceeds from the issuances of common stock.  

These increases were partially offset by:  

   •    An approximate $690 million decrease in proceeds from issuances of notes payable and commercial paper, net of repayments, and  

   •    An approximate $50 million increase in dividends paid in 2008.  

Net cash used in financing activities was $1,327 million in 2007 compared to $1,961 million in 2006, a decrease of $634 million. The change was due primarily to the following:  

   •    An approximate $500 million decrease in cash used due to the repurchase of common shares in 2006,  

   •    An approximate $400 million decrease in dividends paid as a result of the spin-off of Spectra Energy, and  

   •    An approximate $1,030 million increase in net proceeds in 2007 from the issuance of notes payable and commercial paper.  

These increases were partially offset by:  

   •    An approximate $700 million decrease in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt, net of redemptions,  

   •    An approximate $400 million distribution of cash in 2007 as a result of the spin-off of Spectra Energy,  

   •    An approximate $110 million decrease in cash due to the repurchase of senior convertible notes in 2007, and  

   •    An approximate $100 million decrease in proceeds from the Duke Energy Income Fund.  

Financing Activities Subsequent to December 31, 2008. In January 2009, Duke Energy issued $750 million principal amount of 6.30% senior unsecured notes due February 1, 2014. The net proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.  

In January 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $271 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $271 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by direct-pay letters of credit, of which $144 million had initial rates of 0.7% reset on a weekly basis with $44 million maturing May 2035, $23 million maturing March 2031 and $77 million maturing December 2039, and $127 million had initial rates of 0.50% reset on a daily basis with $77 million maturing December 2039 and $50 million maturing October 2040.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2008. In January 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage refunding bonds, of which $400 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.25% and matures January 15, 2018 and $500 million carries a fixed interest rate of 6.00% and matures January 15, 2038. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper. In anticipation of this debt issuance, Duke Energy Carolinas executed a series of interest rate swaps in 2007 to lock in the market interest rates at that time. The value of these interest rate swaps, which were terminated prior to issuance of the fixed rate debt, was a pre-tax loss of approximately $18 million. This amount was recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and is being amortized as a component of interest expense over the life of the debt.  

In April 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage refunding bonds, of which $300 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.10% and matures April 15, 2018 and $600 million carries a fixed interest rate of 6.05% and matures April 15, 2038. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes. In anticipation of this debt issuance, Duke Energy Carolinas executed a series of interest rate swaps in 2007 to lock in the market interest rates at that time. The value of these interest rate swaps, which were terminated prior to issuance of the fixed rate debt, was a pre-tax loss of   

68  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 approximately $23 million. This amount was recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and is being amortized as a component of interest expense over the life of the debt.  

In April 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas refunded $100 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $100 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by a direct-pay letter of credit. The variable-rate demand bonds, which are due November 1, 2040, had an initial interest rate of 2.15% which is reset on a weekly basis.  

In June 2008, Duke Energy issued $500 million principal amount of senior notes, of which $250 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.65% and matures June 15, 2013 and $250 million carries a fixed interest rate of 6.25% and matures June 15, 2018. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s nonregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.  

In August 2008, Duke Energy Indiana issued $500 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.35% and matures August 15, 2038. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of short-term notes and to redeem first mortgage bonds maturing in September 2008.  

In October 2008, International Energy issued approximately $153 million of debt in Brazil, of which approximately $112 million matures in September 2013 and carries a variable interest rate equal to the Brazil interbank rate plus 2.15%, and approximately $41 million matures in September 2015 and carries a fixed interest rate of 11.6% plus an annual inflation index. International Energy used these proceeds to pre-pay existing long-term debt balances.  

In November 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage refunding bonds, of which $500 million carries a fixed interest rate of 7.00% and matures November 15, 2018 and $400 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.75% and matures November 15, 2013. The net proceeds from issuance were used to repay amounts borrowed under the master credit facility, to repay senior notes due January 1, 2009, to replenish cash used to repay senior notes at their scheduled maturity in October 2008 and for general corporate purposes.  

In December 2008, Duke Energy Kentucky refunded $50 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $50 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by a direct-pay letter of credit. The variable-rate demand bonds, which are due August 1, 2027, had an initial interest rate of 0.65% which is reset on a weekly basis.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2007. On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of the natural gas businesses. In connection with this transaction, Duke Energy distributed all the shares of Spectra Energy to Duke Energy shareholders. The distribution ratio approved by Duke Energy’s Board of Directors was one-half share of Spectra Energy stock for each share of Duke Energy stock. Additionally, dividends paid on Duke Energy common stock during 2007 of approximately $1,089 million were less than the 2006 dividends paid of approximately $1,488 million as dividends subsequent to the spin-off were split proportionately between Duke Energy and Spectra Energy such that the sum of the dividends of the two stand-alone companies approximated the former total dividend of Duke Energy.  

On May 15, 2007, substantially all of the holders of the Duke Energy convertible senior notes required Duke Energy to repurchase the balance then outstanding at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. In May 2007, Duke Energy repurchased approximately $110 million of the convertible senior notes.  

In June 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $500 million principal amount of 6.10% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2037. The net proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper that was issued to repay the outstanding $249 million 6.6% Insured Quarterly Senior Notes due 2022 on April 30, 2007, and approximately $110 million of convertible debt discussed above. The remainder was used for general corporate purposes.  

In November 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $100 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as insured auction rate securities, subject to an auction process every 35 days and bear a final maturity of 2040. The initial interest rate was set at 3.65%. The bonds were issued through the North Carolina Capital Facilities Finance Agency to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Belews Creek and Allen Steam Stations.  

In December 2007, Duke Energy Ohio issued $140 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as insured auction rate securities, subject to an auction process every 35 days and bear a final maturity of 2041. The initial interest rate was set at 4.85%. The bonds were issued through the Ohio Air Quality Development Authority to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Conesville, Stuart and Killen Generation Stations in Ohio.  

69  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2006. During the year ended December 31, 2006, Duke Energy increased the portion of outstanding commercial paper and pollution control bond balances classified as long-term from $472 million to $929 million. This non-current classification is due to the existence of long-term credit facilities which back-stop these balances along with Duke Energy’s intent to refinance such balances on a long-term basis.  

During 2006, Duke Energy repurchased approximately 17.5 million shares of its common stock for approximately $500 million and paid dividends of approximately $1,488 million. Also, during the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately $632 million of convertible senior notes were converted into approximately 27 million shares of Duke Energy Common Stock.  

In November 2006, Union Gas Limited (Union Gas) issued 4.85% fixed-rate debenture bonds denominated in 125 million Canadian dollars (approximately $108 million U.S. dollar equivalents as of the closing date) due in 2022. This debt was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.  

In October 2006, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $150 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as variable-rate demand bonds, subject to weekly remarketing and bear a final maturity of 2031. The initial interest rate was set at 3.72%. The bonds are supported by an irrevocable 3-year direct-pay letter of credit and were issued through the North Carolina Capital Facilities Finance Agency to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Marshall and Belews Creek Steam Stations.  

In September 2006, prior to the completion of the partial sale of Crescent to the MS Members as discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets,” Crescent issued approximately $1.23 billion principal amount of debt. The net proceeds from the debt issuance of approximately $1.21 billion were recorded as a Financing Activity on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As a result of Duke Energy’s deconsolidation of Crescent effective September 7, 2006, Crescent’s outstanding debt balance of $1,298 million was removed from Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

In September 2006, Union Gas entered into a fixed-rate financing agreement denominated in 165 million Canadian dollars (approximately $148 million in U.S. dollar equivalents as of the issuance date) due in 2036 with an interest rate of 5.46%. This debt was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.  

In September 2006, the Income Fund sold approximately 9 million previously unissued Trust Units at a price of 12.15 Canadian dollars per Trust Unit for total proceeds of 104 million Canadian dollars, net of commissions and expenses of other expenses of issuance. The sale of approximately 9 million Trust Units reduced Duke Energy’s ownership interest in the Income Fund to approximately 46% at December 31, 2006. The Income Fund was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.  

In August 2006, Duke Energy Kentucky issued approximately $77 million principal amount of floating rate tax-exempt notes due August 1, 2027. Proceeds from the issuance were used to refund a like amount of debt on September 1, 2006 then outstanding at Duke Energy Ohio. Approximately $27 million of the floating rate debt was swapped to a fixed rate concurrent with closing.  

In June 2006, Duke Energy Indiana issued $325 million principal amount of 6.05% senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2016. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay $325 million of 6.65% First Mortgage Bonds that matured on June 15, 2006.  

Available Credit Facilities and Restrictive Debt Covenants. In June 2007, Duke Energy closed the syndication of an amended and restated credit facility, which replaced existing credit facilities, with a 5-year, $2.65 billion master credit facility. Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky all have borrowing capacity under the terms of the master credit facility.  

In March 2008, Duke Energy entered into an amendment to its $2.65 billion master credit facility whereby the borrowing capacity was increased by $550 million to $3.2 billion. In October 2008, Duke Energy terminated the participation of one of the financial institutions supplying approximately $63 million of credit commitment under its master credit facility. The total credit facility capacity under the master credit facility subsequent to this termination is approximately $3.14 billion. Duke Energy has the unilateral ability under the master credit facility to increase or decrease the borrowing sublimits of each borrower, subject to maximum cap limitations, at any time. The amount available under the master credit facility has been reduced by draw downs of cash and the use of the master credit facility to backstop the issuances of commercial paper, letters of credit and pollution control bonds. At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had available capacity of approximately $1.2 billion under the master credit facility. For further information on Duke Energy’s credit facilities as of December 31, 2008, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities.”  

70  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

In September 2008, Duke Energy and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky (collectively referred to as the borrowers) borrowed a total of approximately $1 billion under Duke Energy’s master credit facility. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas used the proceeds from a debt issuance to repay in full the approximately $260 million borrowed under the master credit facility. At December 31, 2008, outstanding borrowings of approximately $750 million under Duke Energy’s master credit facility were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The loans under the master credit facility are revolving credit loans that currently bear interest at one-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable spread ranging from 19 to 24 basis points. The loan for Duke Energy has a stated maturity of June 2012, while the loans for all of the other borrowers have stated maturities of September 2009; however, the borrowers have the ability under the master credit facility to renew the loans due in September 2009 up through the date the master credit facility matures in June 2012. Except for Duke Energy Ohio, all of the borrowers have the intent and ability to refinance these obligations on a long-term basis, either through renewal of the terms of the loan through the master credit facility, which has non-cancelable terms in excess of one-year, or through issuance of long-term debt to replace the amounts drawn under the master credit facility. Accordingly, borrowings of $471 million are reflected as Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008. As Duke Energy Ohio does not have the intent to refinance its borrowings on a long-term basis, the $279 million outstanding at December 31, 2008 is reflected in Notes Payable and Commercial Paper within current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

In September 2008, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively entered into a $330 million three-year letter of credit agreement with a syndicate of banks, under which Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky may request the issuance of letters of credit up to $279 million and $51 million, respectively, on their behalf to support various series of variable rate demand bonds issued or to be issued on behalf of either Duke Energy Indiana or Duke Energy Kentucky. This credit facility, which is not part of Duke Energy’s master credit facility, may not be used for any purpose other than to support the variable rate demand bonds issued by Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky.  

Duke Energy’s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements. As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy was in compliance with all covenants related to its significant debt agreements. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or to the acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.  

Credit Ratings. Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries each hold credit ratings by S&P and Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s).  

In September 2008, S&P revised the outlook on Duke Energy and its rated subsidiaries from stable to positive and affirmed the credit ratings of Duke Energy and its rated subsidiaries.  

In January 2008, Moody’s changed the rating outlook on Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Cinergy, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky to stable from positive, while affirming the existing ratings in the below table of each of these entities. In January 2009, Moody’s changed the rating on Duke Energy Ohio to positive from stable. The outlooks for all other rated entities remain as stable.  

Duke Energy’s corporate credit rating and issuer credit rating from S&P and Moody’s, respectively, as of February 1, 2009 is A- and Baa2, respectively. The following table summarizes the February 1, 2009 unsecured credit ratings from the rating agencies retained by Duke Energy and its principal funding subsidiaries.  

71  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Senior Unsecured Credit Ratings Summary as of February 1, 2009  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy’s credit ratings are dependent on, among other factors, the ability to generate sufficient cash to fund capital and investment expenditures and pay dividends on its common stock, while maintaining the strength of its current balance sheet. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, Duke Energy is unable to maintain its current balance sheet strength, or if its earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, Duke Energy’s credit ratings could be negatively impacted.  

Credit-Related Clauses. Duke Energy may be required to repay certain debt should the credit ratings at Duke Energy Carolinas fall to a certain level at Standard & Poor’s (S&P) or Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s). As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had approximately $8 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2012 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB- at S&P or Baa3 at Moody’s, and $19 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2016 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB at S&P or Baa2 at Moody’s.  

Other Financing Matters. In October 2007, Duke Energy filed a registration statement (Form S-3) with the SEC. Under this Form S-3, which is uncapped, Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana may issue debt and other securities in the future at amounts, prices and with terms to be determined at the time of future offerings. The registration statement also allows for the issuance of common stock by Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has paid quarterly cash dividends for 83 consecutive years and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. It is currently anticipated that dividends per share will increase $0.01 per share beginning in the third quarter of 2009.  

Duke Energy issues shares of its common stock to meet certain employee benefit and long-term incentive obligations. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy began issuing authorized but unissued shares of common stock to fulfill obligations under its DRIP and other internal plans, including 401(k) plans. Duke Energy currently anticipates issuing up to an aggregate of approximately $600 million of common stock associated with these programs. Approximately $100 million of common stock was issued during the fourth quarter of 2008 associated with these plans. Proceeds from all issuances of common stock, primarily related to the DRIP and other employee benefit plans, including employee exercises of stock options, were approximately $133 million in 2008, $50 million in 2007 and approximately $127 million in 2006.  

Dividend and Other Funding Restrictions of Duke Energy Subsidiaries. As discussed in Note 4, to the Consolidated Financial Statements “Regulatory Matters”, Duke Energy’s wholly-owned public utility operating companies have restrictions on the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy via dividend, advance or loan as a result of conditions imposed by various regulators in conjunction with Duke Energy’s merger with Cinergy. Additionally, certain other Duke Energy subsidiaries have other restrictions, such as minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements pursuant to debt and other agreements that limit the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2008, the amount of restricted net assets of wholly-owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy that may not be distributed to Duke Energy in the form of a loan or dividend is approximately $10.7 billion. However, Duke Energy does not have any legal or other restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders out of its consolidated Retained Earnings account. Although these restrictions cap the amount of funding the various operating subsidiaries can provide to Duke Energy, management does not believe these restrictions will have any significant impact on Duke Energy’s ability to access cash to meet its payment of dividends on common stock and other future funding obligations.  

72  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include financial and performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, guarantees of debt, surety bonds and indemnifications. In contemplation of the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007, certain guarantees that had been issued by Spectra Energy Capital were transferred to Duke Energy prior to the consummation of the spin-off. This resulted in Duke Energy recording an immaterial liability for certain guarantees that were previously grandfathered under the provisions of FIN No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others,” and, therefore, had not been recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Guarantees issued by Spectra Energy Capital or its subsidiaries on or prior to December 31, 2006 remained with Spectra Energy Capital subsequent to the spin-off, except for certain guarantees that are in the process of being assigned to Duke Energy. During this assignment period, Duke Energy has indemnified Spectra Energy Capital against any losses incurred under these guarantee obligations. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further details of the guarantee arrangements.  

Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy, either on its own or on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital through the aforementioned indemnification agreements, having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events.  

Due to the continued downturn in the overall economic environment, Duke Energy performed an assessment of its guarantee obligations as of December 31, 2008 to determine whether any SFAS No. 5 liabilities have been triggered as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by parties for which Duke Energy has issued guarantees. Based on the results of this analysis, as of December 31, 2008 management determined, with the exception of some insignificant amounts, that it is not probable that Duke Energy will have to perform under any guarantee obligations. However, management will continue to monitor the financial condition of the third parties or non-wholly owned entities for whom Duke Energy has issued guarantees on behalf of, including certain obligations related to Crescent, to determine whether performance under these guarantees becomes probable in the future. As of December 31, 2008, it is reasonably possible that Duke Energy could have exposure of approximately $40 million under these guarantees should Crescent fail to perform under its obligations associated with these projects, which would become more likely should Crescent declare bankruptcy in the near future. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates and Related Party Transactions,” for a discussion of impairment losses recorded by Crescent during 2008 and Crescent’s significant debt obligations as of December 31, 2008.  

Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy’s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantees, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky have an agreement to sell certain of their accounts receivable and related collections to Cinergy Receivables Company LLC (Cinergy Receivables), which purchases, on a revolving basis, nearly all of the retail accounts receivable and related collections of Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky. Cinergy Receivables is not consolidated by Duke Energy since it meets the requirements to be accounted for as a qualifying special purpose entity (SPE). Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky each retain an interest in the receivables transferred to Cinergy Receivables. The transfers of receivables are accounted for as sales, pursuant to SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.” For a more detailed discussion of the sale of certain accounts receivable, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.”  

Duke Energy also holds interests in variable interest entities (VIEs), consolidated and unconsolidated, as defined by FIN No. 46R, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” For further information, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities”.  

Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above and normal operating lease arrangements, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information on these commitments, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

73  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Contractual Obligations  

Duke Energy enters into contracts that require payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s contractual cash obligations for each of the periods presented. It is expected that the majority of current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets will be paid in cash in 2009.  

Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2008  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities”. Amount includes interest payments over life of debt or capital lease. Payment amounts exclude $750 million of debt issued by Duke Energy in January 2009. Interest payments on variable rate debt instruments were calculated using interest rates derived from the interpolation of the forecast interest rate curve. In addition, a spread was placed on top of the interest rates to aid in capturing the volatility inherent in projecting future interest rates.  

 (b) See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”.  

 (c) Includes firm capacity payments that provide Duke Energy with uninterrupted firm access to electricity transmission capacity, and the option to convert natural gas to electricity at third-party owned facilities (tolling arrangements) in some power locations throughout North America.  

 (d) Includes contractual obligations to purchase physical quantities of electricity, coal and nuclear fuel, certain normal purchases, energy derivatives and hedges per SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” (SFAS No. 133). For contracts where the price paid is based on an index, the amount is based on forward market prices at December 31, 2008. For certain of these amounts, Duke Energy may settle on a net cash basis since Duke Energy has entered into payment netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties.  

 (e) Includes contracts for software, telephone, data and consulting or advisory services. Amount also includes contractual obligations for engineering, procurement and construction costs for new generation plants and nuclear plant refurbishments, environmental projects on fossil facilities, major maintenance of certain non-regulated plants, and commitments to buy wind and CT turbines. Amount excludes certain open purchase orders for services that are provided on demand, for which the timing of the purchase can not be determined.  

 (f) Primarily relates to future annual funding obligations to the NDTF (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations”).  

 (g) The table above excludes certain obligations discussed herein related to amounts recorded within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets due to the uncertainty of the timing and amount of future cash flows necessary to settle these obligations. The amount of cash flows to be paid to settle the asset retirement obligations is not known with certainty as Duke Energy may use internal resources or external resources to perform retirement activities. As a result, cash obligations for asset retirement activities are excluded from the table above. Asset retirement obligations recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets total $2,567 million and the fair value of the NDTF, which will be used to help fund these obligations, is $1,436 million at December 31, 2008. The table above excludes reserves for litigation, environmental remediation, asbestos-related injuries and damages claims and self-insurance claims (see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”) because Duke Energy is uncertain as to the timing of when cash payments will be required. Additionally, the table above excludes annual insurance premiums that are necessary to operate the business, including nuclear insurance (see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”), funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans (see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans”) and regulatory credits (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters”) because the amount and timing of the cash payments are uncertain. Also, the table above excludes Deferred Income Taxes and Investment Tax Credits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each discrete fiscal year. Additionally, amounts related to uncertain tax positions are excluded from the table above due to uncertainty of timing of future payments.  

 (h) Current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, and purchase obligations reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets have been excluded from the above table.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Risk Management Policies  

Duke Energy is exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, credit exposure, interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Management has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Treasurer and other members of management on market risk positions, corporate exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. The Treasurer is responsible for the overall governance of managing credit risk and commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.  

74  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Commodity Price Risk  

Duke Energy is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy related assets. Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. Duke Energy’s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. Duke Energy employs established policies and procedures to manage its risks associated with these market fluctuations, which may include using various commodity derivatives, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management and Hedging Activities, Credit Risk, and Financial Instruments.”  

Validation of a contract’s fair value is performed by an internal group separate from Duke Energy’s deal origination areas. While Duke Energy uses common industry practices to develop its valuation techniques, changes in Duke Energy’s pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income recognition.  

Hedging Strategies. Duke Energy closely monitors the risks associated with commodity price changes on its future operations and, where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations. Duke Energy’s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge the generation portfolio against exposure to the prices of power and fuel.  

Certain derivatives used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. To the extent that instruments accounted for as hedges are effective in offsetting the transaction being hedged, there is no impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operations until delivery or settlement occurs. Accordingly, assumptions and valuation techniques for these contracts have no impact on reported earnings prior to settlement. Several factors influence the effectiveness of a hedge contract, including the use of contracts with different commodities or unmatched terms and counterparty credit risk. Hedge effectiveness is monitored regularly and measured at least quarterly.  

In addition to the hedge contracts described above and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, Duke Energy enters into other contracts that qualify for the normal purchases and sales exception described in paragraph 10 of SFAS No. 133, as amended and interpreted by Derivatives Implementation Group Issue C15, “Scope Exceptions: Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception for Option-Type Contracts and Forward Contracts in Electricity,” and SFAS No. 149, “Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” On a limited basis, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power apply the normal purchase and normal sales exception to certain contracts. Income recognition and realization related to normal purchases and normal sales contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of power. For contracts qualifying for the scope exception, no recognition of the contract’s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract unless the contract is designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge. Recognition of the contracts in the Consolidated Statements of Operations will be the same regardless of whether the contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges or as normal purchases and sales, unless designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge, assuming no hedge ineffectiveness.  

Other derivatives used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are either not designated as a hedge or do not qualify for hedge accounting. Derivatives related to regulated businesses reflect changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments as a regulatory asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Derivatives related to unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts (see Undesignated Contracts below).  

Generation Portfolio Risks for 2009. Duke Energy is primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power, natural gas, and coal prices in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. Duke Energy optimizes the value of its bulk power marketing and non-regulated generation portfolios. The portfolios include generation assets (power and capacity), fuel, and emission allowances. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the business units. The generation portfolio not utilized to serve native load or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations, although the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations reported earnings is partially offset by mechanisms in the regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, it was estimated that a ten percent price change per megawatt hour in forward wholesale power prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $10 million in 2009 and would have had a $24 million impact in 2008, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date, which are discussed further below. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, it was estimated that a ten percent change in   

75  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 the forward price per ton of coal would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $10 million in 2009 and would have had a $4 million impact in 2008, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, it was estimated that a ten percent price change per Million British Thermal (MMBtu) in natural gas prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $5 million in 2009 and would have had a $9 million impact in 2008, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date, which are discussed further below.  

Sensitivities for derivatives beyond 2009. Derivative contracts executed to manage generation portfolio risks for delivery periods beyond 2009 are also exposed to changes in fair value due to market price fluctuations of wholesale power and coal. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, it was estimated that a ten percent price change in the forward price per megawatt hour of wholesale power would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $11 million in 2009 and would have had a $16 million impact in 2008, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying and undesignated power contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, it was estimated that a ten percent change in the forward price per ton of coal would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $10 million in 2009 and would have had a $14 million impact in 2008, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying and undesignated coal contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date.  

Comparability of sensitivity analysis. As Commercial Power began reapplying the provisions of SFAS No. 71 on December 17, 2008 to portions of its operations, certain derivative contracts that historically resulted in earnings volatility receive regulatory deferral of gains and losses. Accordingly, the mark-to-market associated with these contracts will not impact earnings. However, to achieve comparability of sensitivity information between periods, the portion of the derivative contracts that receive regulatory treatment have been included in the sensitivity amounts for both periods presented. Since certain derivative contracts included in the sensitivity analysis for 2009 will not result in earnings impacts, the forecasted sensitivities for 2009 are less than the pre-tax income amounts disclosed above.  

Other Commodity Risks. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, pre-tax income in 2009 and 2008 was not expected to be materially impacted for exposures to other commodities’ price changes.  

The commodity price sensitivity calculations above consider existing hedge positions and estimated production levels, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices.  

Credit Risk  

Credit risk represents the loss that Duke Energy would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. To reduce credit exposure, Duke Energy seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. Duke Energy attempts to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable Duke Energy to obtain collateral or to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events. Duke Energy may, at times, use credit derivatives or other structures and techniques to provide for third-party credit enhancement of Duke Energy’s counterparties’ obligations. Duke Energy also obtains cash or letters of credit from customers to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on its financial analysis of the customer and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction.  

Duke Energy’s industry has historically operated under negotiated credit lines for physical delivery contracts. Duke Energy frequently uses master collateral agreements to mitigate certain credit exposures. The collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents an unsecured credit limit, determined in accordance with the corporate credit policy. Collateral agreements also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions.  

Duke Energy’s principal customers for power and natural gas marketing and transportation services are industrial end-users, marketers, local distribution companies and utilities located throughout the U.S. and Latin America. Duke Energy has concentrations of receivables from natural gas and electric utilities and their affiliates, as well as industrial customers and marketers throughout these regions. These concentrations of customers may affect Duke Energy’s overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. Where exposed to credit risk, Duke Energy analyzes the counterparties’ financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establishes credit limits and monitors the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas’ asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed   

76  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy’s third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,099 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of approximately $1,032 million and $1,040 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries also have credit risk exposure through issuance of performance guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds on behalf of less than wholly-owned entities and third parties. Where Duke Energy has issued these guarantees, it is possible that Duke Energy could be required to perform under these guarantee obligations in the event the obligor under the guarantee fails to perform. Where Duke Energy has issued guarantees related to assets or operations that have been disposed of via sale, Duke Energy attempts to secure indemnification from the buyer against all future performance obligations under the guarantees. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further information on guarantees issued by Duke Energy or its subsidiaries.  

Based on Duke Energy’s policies for managing credit risk, its exposures and its credit and other reserves, Duke Energy does not anticipate a materially adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty.  

Interest Rate Risk 

Duke Energy is exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of its issuance of variable and fixed rate debt and commercial paper. Duke Energy manages its interest rate exposure by limiting its variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total capitalization and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. Duke Energy also enters into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 8, 9, and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” “Risk Management and Hedging Activities, Credit Risk, and Financial Instruments,” “Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities,” and “Debt and Credit Facilities.”  

Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008, it was estimated that if market interest rates average 1% higher (lower) in 2009 than in 2008, interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would increase (decrease) by approximately $28 million. Comparatively, based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2007, had interest rates averaged 1% higher (lower) in 2008 than in 2007, it was estimated that interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would have increased (decreased) by approximately $22 million. These amounts were estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges, short-term and long-term investments, cash and cash equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. The increase in interest rate sensitivity is primarily due to borrowings outstanding under the master credit facility. If interest rates changed significantly, management would likely take actions to manage its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in Duke Energy’s financial structure.  

Equity Price Risk  

As described further in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” Duke Energy invests in equity securities as part of various investment portfolios to fund certain obligations of the business. The vast majority of the investments in equity securities are within the nuclear decommissioning trust fund and assets of the various pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.  

Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds (NDTF). As required by the NRC and the NCUC, Duke Energy maintains trust funds to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations”). As of December 31, 2008, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international equity securities, debt securities, fixed-income securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per NRC and NCUC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. The investments in equity securities are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets. Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ rates; therefore, fluctuations in equity prices do not affect Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations as changes in the fair value of these investments are deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities pursuant to an Order by the NCUC. Earnings or losses of the fund will ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ rates.  

77  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

In 2005, the NCUC and PSCSC collectively approved a $48 million annual amount for contributions and expense levels for decommissioning. In each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Duke Energy expensed approximately $48 million and contributed cash of approximately $48 million to the NDTF for decommissioning costs. Estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs $2.3 billion in 2003 dollars, based on a decommissioning study completed in 2004. This includes costs related to Duke Energy’s proportionate ownership in the Catawba Nuclear Station, which was 12.5% at the time the study was completed. The other joint owners of the Catawba Nuclear Station are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their ownership interests in the station. As the NCUC and the PSCSC require that Duke Energy update its cost estimate for decommissioning its nuclear plants every five years, new site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies were completed in January 2009 that showed total estimated nuclear decommissioning costs, including the cost to decommission plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, of approximately $3 billion in 2008 dollars. This estimate is based on Duke Energy’s current ownership share of Catawba Nuclear Station of approximately 19%. Duke Energy will file these site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies with the NCUC and the PSCSC later this year. In addition to the decommissioning cost studies, a new funding study is underway to determine the appropriateness of the annual amounts currently being contributed to the NDTF. The NCUC and the PSCSC will consider the results of the funding study, which could potentially increase the annual required contributions to the NDTF, in the latter part of 2009.  

The following table provides the fair value of investments held in the NDTF at December 31, 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Pension Plan Assets. Duke Energy maintains investments to help fund the costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. Those investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. Duke Energy has established asset allocation targets for its pension plan holdings, which take into consideration the investment objectives and the risk profile with respect to the trust in which the assets are held. Duke Energy’s target asset allocation for equity securities is approximately 64% of the value of the plan assets and the holdings are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of any single investment, sector or geographic region. A significant decline in the value of plan asset holdings could require Duke Energy to increase its funding of the pension plan in future periods, which could adversely affect cash flows in those periods. Additionally, a decline in the fair value of plan assets, absent additional cash contributions to the plan, could increase the amount of pension expense required to be recorded in future periods, which could adversely affect Duke Energy’s results of operations in those periods. In February 2009, Duke Energy made an approximate $500 million contribution to its pension plan. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans,” for additional information on pension plan assets.  

Foreign Currency Risk  

Duke Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk from investments in international affiliate businesses owned and operated in foreign countries and from certain commodity-related transactions within domestic operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. To mitigate risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, contracts may be denominated in or indexed to the U.S. Dollar and/or local inflation rates, or investments may be naturally hedged through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency. Duke Energy may also use foreign currency derivatives, where possible, to manage its risk related to foreign currency fluctuations. To monitor its currency exchange rate risks, Duke Energy uses sensitivity analysis, which measures the impact of devaluation of the foreign currencies to which it has exposure.  

In 2009, Duke Energy’s primary foreign currency rate exposure is to the Brazilian Real. A 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates as of December 31, 2008 in all of Duke Energy’s exposure currencies would result in an estimated net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings of approximately $10 million to Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2009. The Consolidated Balance Sheet would be negatively impacted by approximately $120 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI as of December 31, 2008 as a result of a 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2007, a 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates in all of Duke Energy’s exposure currencies was expected to   

78  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 result in an estimated net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings of approximately $10 million to Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and a reduction of approximately $145 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI as of December 31, 2007.  

Other Issues  

Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 was signed into law in August 2005. The legislation directs specified agencies to conduct a significant number of studies on various aspects of the energy industry and to implement other provisions through rulemakings. Among the key provisions, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 repeals the PUHCA of 1935, directs FERC to establish a self-regulating electric reliability organization governed by an independent board with FERC oversight, extends the Price Anderson Act for 20 years (until 2025), provides loan guarantees, standby support and production tax credits for new nuclear reactors, gives FERC enhanced merger approval authority, provides FERC new backstop authority for the site selection of certain electric transmission projects, streamlines the processes for approval and permitting of interstate pipelines, and reforms hydropower relicensing. In late 2005 and early 2006, FERC initiated several rulemakings as directed by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Duke Energy is currently evaluating these proposals and does not anticipate that these rulemakings will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

Global Climate Change. A body of scientific evidence now accepted by a growing majority of the public and policymakers suggests that the Earth’s climate is changing, caused in part by greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere from human activities. Although there is still much to learn about the causes and long-term effects of climate change, many, including Duke Energy, advocate taking steps now to begin reducing emissions with the aim of stabilizing the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases at a level that avoids the potentially worst-case effects of climate change.  

Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are produced from a wide variety of human activities. The U.S. EPA publishes an inventory of these emissions annually. Carbon dioxide (CO2), an essential trace gas, is a by product of fossil fuel combustion and currently accounts for about 85% of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. Duke Energy currently accounts for about 1.5% of total U.S. CO2 emissions, and about 1.3% of total U.S. GHG emissions.  

Duke Energy is making long-term decisions for how best to meet its customers’ growing demand for electricity. Duke Energy’s strategy for meeting customer demand while building a sustainable business that allows our customers and our shareholders to prosper in a carbon-constrained environment includes significant commitments to customer energy efficiency, renewable energy, advanced nuclear power, advanced clean-coal and high-efficiency natural gas electric generating plants, and retirement of older less efficient coal-fired power plants. Each of these actions will or has the potential to reduce Duke Energy’s CO2 emissions and therefore its exposure to the costs of future GHG regulation.  

Duke Energy’s cost of complying with any federal GHG emissions law that may be enacted will depend on the design details of the program. If potential future GHG legislation adopts a cap-and-trade approach, the design elements of such a program that will have the greatest influence on Duke Energy’s compliance costs include (1) the required levels and timing of the cap, which will drive emission allowance prices, (2) the emission sources covered under the cap, (3) the number of allowances that Duke Energy might be allocated at no cost on a year-to-year basis, (4) the type and effectiveness of any cost control mechanisms included in the program, (5) the role of emission offsets, which will also influence allowance prices, and (6) the availability and cost of technologies that Duke Energy can deploy to lower its emissions. While Duke Energy believes it is very likely that Congress will adopt mandatory GHG emission reduction legislation at some point, the timing and design details of any such legislation are highly uncertain.  

While there were many bills introduced in both houses of Congress during the 110th Congress that proposed mandatory limits on GHG emissions, S. 2191—America’s Climate Security Act of 2007 (commonly referred to as the Lieberman-Warner bill after the sponsors Senators Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut and John Warner of Virginia) became the primary climate change related legislative vehicle. The bill was approved by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee in December 2007, but failed to advance on the Senate floor in June 2008 when the bill fell considerably short of the 60 votes necessary to invoke cloture and cut off debate. No subsequent action was taken in the 110th Congress related to mandatory federal GHG legislation.  

Numerous bills mandating reductions in GHG emissions are expected to be introduced in both houses of Congress in 2009. The leadership in both the House and Senate has publicly stated it is their intent to proceed with climate legislation. President Obama, in his presidential campaign and after the election, indicated passage of climate change legislation is a priority. Still, as the Senate debate in 2008 revealed, there are wide-ranging views in Congress regarding what constitutes acceptable GHG legislation. The current condition of the U.S. economy could add a degree of uncertainty, and there are indications that, in the 111th Congress multiple committees will be involved in crafting GHG legislation, which will make the process of developing GHG legislation potentially more challenging.  

79  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy supports the enactment of federal GHG cap-and-trade legislation. Due to Duke Energy’s concern about patchwork policies focused on a single industrial sector or particular region of the country, Duke Energy believes this legislation should establish a program that applies to all parts of the economy, including power generation, industrial and commercial sources, and motor vehicles. To permit the economy to adjust rationally to the policy, legislation should establish a long-term program that first slows the growth of emissions, stops them and then transitions to a gradually declining emissions cap as new lower-and non-emitting technologies are developed and become available for wide-scale deployment. Legislation should also include adequate cost-containment measures to protect the U.S. economy from grave and unintended impacts of the policy.  

Duke Energy is unable to estimate the potential cost of complying with currently unspecified and unknowable future GHG legislation or any indirect costs that might result. Compliance costs are sensitive to numerous policy design details, allowance prices, and technology availability and cost. During the Senate debate on the Lieberman-Warner legislation in 2007 and 2008, Duke Energy attempted to estimate its cost of complying with that legislation over a range of potential allowance prices. Duke Energy estimated its compliance costs under the Lieberman- Warner model to be between approximately $930 million to $2.8 billion in the first year of the program (2012), which represented the cost to purchase emission allowances needed for compliance over and above what might be allocated to Duke Energy at zero-cost. Duke Energy would have continued to incur similar or greater annual compliance costs in subsequent years for continued allowance purchases until such time as new lower-and zero-emitting technologies could be deployed to reduce emissions. Duke Energy’s compliance costs at that time would then include the cost of purchasing and deploying new generation technologies. Duke Energy would only be able to reduce its allowance purchase costs after new technologies were actually deployed.  

There is no way to know how similar or different the requirements of the Lieberman-Warner legislation might be to any future GHG legislation that Congress may eventually adopt, so it is uncertain whether these costs are at all representative of compliance costs that Duke Energy might incur as a result of any potential future GHG legislation. Under any future scenario involving mandatory GHG limitations, Duke Energy would plan to seek to recover its compliance costs through appropriate regulatory mechanisms in the jurisdictions in which it operates.  

At the state level, the Midwestern Governors Association has an initiative under way called the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord. One of the ongoing activities of the initiative is the design of a regional GHG cap-and-trade system, with the anticipated end product to be a Model Rule for implementing a GHG cap-and-trade system. Once complete, the Model Rule would go to participating states for their consideration and possible adoption. The states of Ohio and Indiana are currently only observers to the accord process. The outcome of this initiative is highly uncertain and Duke Energy is unable to determine at this time whether there might be direct or indirect cost impacts from any new regulations that might result from the initiative.  

While Duke Energy’s near-term compliance strategy associated with any potential future GHG legislation that incorporates a cap-and-trade mechanism will likely be focused on allowance purchases, it is expected that at some point in the future Duke Energy would begin reducing emissions by replacing existing coal-fired generation with new lower-and zero-emitting generation technologies, and/or installing new carbon capture and sequestration technology on existing coal-fired generating plants when the technologies become available and cost-effective. It is not possible at this time, however, to predict with certainty what new technologies might be developed, when they will be ready to be deployed, or what their costs will be. There is also uncertainty as to how or when certain non-technical issues, such as legal and liability questions, that could affect the cost and availability of new technologies might be resolved by regulators. Duke Energy currently is focused on advanced nuclear generation, integrated gasification combined cycle generation with carbon capture and sequestration, and capture and storage retrofit technology for existing pulverized coal-fired generation as promising new technologies for generating electricity with lower or no CO2 emissions.  

Duke Energy has begun the regulatory process to construct a new 2,234-megawatt nuclear power plant (William States Lee III Nuclear Station) in South Carolina, petitioning the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 2007 for a combined construction and operating license. If constructed, this facility would produce virtually no GHG’s and could begin operation in the 2018 timeframe.  

With regard to advanced clean-coal, Duke Energy is in the process of constructing a 630-megawatt integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) power plant in Indiana. One of the key features of the IGCC technology is that it has great potential to support the capture of its CO2 emissions, with subsequent underground storage of the captured CO2. Indiana’s geology gives all indications of being conducive to permanent underground storage of CO2. Although the IGCC plant, scheduled to be completed in 2012, is not currently being equipped with the technology to capture carbon emissions, space is being reserved for it to be added later. In January 2009, Duke Energy was given permission by the IURC to proceed with a CO2 capture front-end engineering and design study. Duke Energy has also submitted an application to the Department of Energy for up to a 50% sharing of the cost of installing and operating a pilot-scale CO2 capture and storage project at Duke Energy’s IGCC facility.  

80  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy has regulatory requirements in North Carolina and Ohio to meet increasing percentages of customer demand for electricity with renewable energy. In North Carolina the requirement reaches 12.5% in 2021 and in Ohio it reaches a minimum of 12.5% in 2024. Duke Energy also anticipates the Congress will consider a federal renewable portfolio standard in 2009. Previous attempts have passed in the House but fallen short in the Senate. Duke Energy believes, however, chances of passage in the 111th Congress have increased.  

In addition to relying on new technologies to reduce its CO2 emissions, Duke Energy has filed for regulatory approval in each of the states in which it operates (Duke Energy has received approval in Ohio) for a first-of-its-kind innovative approach in the utility industry to help meet growing customer demand with new and creative ways to increase energy efficiency, thereby reducing demand (Save-A-Watt) instead of relying almost exclusively on new power plants to generate electricity.  

Each of these activities has the potential to reduce Duke Energy’s future CO2 emissions which will reduce Duke Energy’s exposure to future GHG regulation.  

Duke Energy recognizes the potential for more frequent and severe extreme weather events as a result of climate change and the possibility that these weather events could have a material impact on its future results of operations should these events occur. However, the uncertain nature of potential changes in extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration, and severity) and the long period of time over which any changes might take place make estimating any potential future financial risk to Duke Energy’s operations that may be caused by the physical risks of climate change extremely challenging. Currently, Duke Energy plans and prepares for extreme weather events that it experiences from time to time, such as ice storms, tornados, severe thunderstorms, high winds and droughts. Duke Energy’s past experiences preparing for and responding to the impacts of these types of weather-related events would reasonably be expected to help management plan and prepare for future climate change-related severe weather events to reduce, but not eliminate, the operational, economic and financial impacts of such events.  

(For additional information on other issues related to Duke Energy, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”)  

New Accounting Standards  

The following new accounting standards have been issued, but have not yet been adopted by Duke Energy as of December 31, 2008:  

SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (SFAS No. 141R). In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, which replaces SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations.” SFAS No. 141R retains the fundamental requirements in SFAS No. 141 that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations and that an acquirer be identified for each business combination. This statement also establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling (minority) interests in an acquiree, and any goodwill acquired in a business combination or gain recognized from a bargain purchase. For Duke Energy, SFAS No. 141R must be applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date occurs on or after January 1, 2009. The impact to Duke Energy of applying SFAS No. 141(R) for periods subsequent to implementation will be dependent upon the nature of any transactions within the scope of SFAS No. 141(R). SFAS No. 141R changes the accounting for income taxes related to prior business combinations, such as Duke Energy’s merger with Cinergy. Subsequent to the effective date of SFAS No. 141R, the resolution of any tax contingencies relating to Cinergy that existed as of the date of the merger will be required to be reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations instead of being reflected as an adjustment to the purchase price via an adjustment to goodwill.  

SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51” (SFAS No. 160). In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, which amends ARB No. 51, “Consolidated Financial Statements,” to establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling (minority) interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in a consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. This statement also changes the way the consolidated income statement is presented by requiring consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. In addition, SFAS No. 160 establishes a single method of accounting for changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation. For Duke Energy, SFAS No. 160 is effective as of January 1, 2009, and must be applied prospectively, except for certain presentation and disclosure requirements which must be applied retrospectively. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 will impact the presentation of noncontrolling interests in Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income, as well as the calculation of Duke Energy’s effective tax rate.  

81  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities—an amendment to FASB Statement No. 133” (SFAS No. 161). In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, which amends and expands the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities prescribed by SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” SFAS No. 161 requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on derivative instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. Duke Energy will adopt SFAS No. 161 as of January 1, 2009 and SFAS No. 161 encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosure for earlier periods at initial adoption. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 will not have any impact on Duke Energy’s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

FSP No. APB 14-1, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)” (FSP APB 14-1). In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP APB 14-1, which addresses the accounting for convertible debt securities that, upon conversion, may be settled by the issuer fully or partially in cash. FSP APB 14-1 does not change the accounting for more traditional types of convertible debt securities that do not have a cash settlement feature and FSP APB 14-1 does not apply if, under existing GAAP for derivatives, the embedded conversion feature must be accounted for separately from the rest of the instrument. For Duke Energy, FSP APB 14-1 is applicable as of January 1, 2009 and must be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented, even if the instrument has matured, has been converted, or has otherwise been extinguished as of the effective date of FSP APB 14-1. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the impact of adopting FSP APB 14-1 on its historical results of operations as, in 2003, Duke Energy issued $770 million of convertible debt with a cash settlement option that was fully converted to common stock during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007; however, Duke Energy does not anticipate the retrospective application of FSP APB 14-1 will have a material impact on Duke Energy’s historical results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Future impacts of FSP APB 14-1 will be determined by whether Duke Energy issues convertible debt with cash settlement options.  

FSP EITF 03-6-1, “Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities” (FSP EITF 03-6-1). In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-6-1 to address whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions may be participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing basic EPS pursuant to the two-class method described in SFAS No. 128. The FASB concluded that rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) on unvested share-based payment awards that provide a noncontingent transfer of value (such as a nonforfeitable right to receive cash when dividends are paid to common stockholders, irrespective of whether the award ultimately vests) to the holder of the share-based payment award constitute participation rights and, therefore, should be included in the computation of basic EPS using the two-class method. Duke Energy issues certain share-based payment awards under which rights to dividends during the vesting period are nonforfeitable. For Duke Energy, FSP EITF 03-6-1 is effective as of January 1, 2009 and all prior-period EPS data is required to be adjusted retrospectively to conform to the provisions of FSP EITF 03-6-1. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the impact of adoption of FSP No. EITF 03-6-1 on its EPS; however, Duke Energy does not currently anticipate the adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 will have a material impact on its calculated future or historical EPS amounts.  

FSP FAS 132(R)-1, “Employers’ Disclosure about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets” (FSP FAS 132(R)-1). In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1, which amends SFAS No. 132(R) to require more detailed disclosures about employers’ plan assets, concentrations of risk within plan assets, and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets. Additionally, companies will be required to disclose their pension assets in a fashion consistent with SFAS No. 157 (i.e., Level 1, 2, and 3 of the fair value hierarchy) along with a roll-forward of the Level 3 values each year. For Duke Energy, FASP FAS 132(R)-1 is effective for Duke Energy’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. The adoption of FSP FAS 132(R)-1 will not have any impact on Duke Energy’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.