Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts  

OVERVIEW  

Nordstrom is a fashion specialty retailer offering high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men and children. We offer a wide selection of brand name and private label merchandise through various channels: our ‘Nordstrom’ branded full-line stores and website, our off-price ‘Nordstrom Rack’ stores, our online private sale subsidiary ‘HauteLook,’ our ‘Jeffrey’ boutiques and our philanthropic ‘treasure&bond’ store. Our stores are located in 30 states throughout the United States. In addition, we offer our customers a variety of payment products and services, including credit and debit cards with an associated loyalty program.  

In 2011, we achieved record total net sales of $10,497, an increase of 12.7%, while growing earnings before interest and taxes (“EBIT”) by 11.7%. This reflects our ongoing efforts to improve the customer experience across all channels, combined with consistent execution and various growth initiatives. As customers’ expectations of service evolve, the consistency of the customer experience across all channels becomes more important, including factors such as expanded selection, multi-channel capabilities, personalization, speed, convenience and price.  

To enhance the customer experience online, we have accelerated our investments in e-commerce. We acquired HauteLook, a leader in the online private sale marketplace. We believe this acquisition will help us further develop our mobile and e-commerce capabilities and enable us to participate in the fast-growing private sales channel. In the third quarter, we began offering free standard shipping and free returns for online purchases and did limited testing of same-day delivery. We also made enhancements to our website and mobile website. We believe these changes make it easier and more convenient to shop with us. Our combined efforts to enhance the online experience led to a meaningful sales increase in the online channel, which is where we expect to have the strongest percentage growth in the future.  

Our strong financial position enables us to continue to make investments in the customer experience to improve our store and online business while also growing through new stores, remodels and other initiatives. During 2011, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores, eighteen Nordstrom Rack stores and remodeled six Nordstrom full-line stores. We also opened a philanthropic store in New York called treasure&bond. In 2012, we plan to open one Nordstrom full-line store and have announced twelve new Nordstrom Rack stores. In addition, we have announced plans to relocate two existing Nordstrom Rack stores and remodel eight Nordstrom full-line stores.  

Our overall goals are to achieve high single-digit total sales growth and mid-teens Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”). We believe that top-line growth and ROIC correlate strongly with shareholders’ return. As we continue to invest in new stores and remodels, we also want to enhance the customer experience through increased spending on e-commerce and technology. These investments flow through our expenses at a faster pace than other investments in previous years. We believe they will increase our ROIC through high growth in sales dollars and EBIT, as opposed to EBIT margin, with an incrementally productive capital base.  

Fashion Rewards plays an important part in building customer loyalty, and our Fashion Rewards members shop more frequently and spend more with us on average than non-members. Approximately one-third of our sales are from Fashion Rewards customers and the program continues to grow as more members use our tender as a convenient way to shop and earn rewards. During the year, customer payment rates continued to improve, resulting in decreasing delinquency and write-off trends, while our credit and debit card volumes increased. In January 2012, we enhanced our Fashion Rewards program, giving customers more control over how and when they can earn rewards and extending more benefits to our cardholders.  

As we look forward to 2012, we remain focused on improving customer service and providing a superior shopping experience. We have a customer-driven strategy, allowing us to execute our current operating plans across all channels while targeting investments in e-commerce and technology to enhance our platform for sustainable, profitable growth.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Our reportable segments are Retail and Credit. Our Retail segment includes our Nordstrom branded full-line stores and website, our Nordstrom Rack stores, and our other retail channels including HauteLook, our Jeffrey stores and our treasure&bond store. For purposes of discussion and analysis of our results of operations, we combine our Retail segment results with revenues and expenses in the “Corporate/Other” column of our segment reporting footnote (collectively, the “Retail Business”). We analyze our results of operations through earnings before interest and income taxes for our Retail Business and earnings before income taxes for Credit, while interest expense and income taxes are discussed on a total company basis.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 19  

Table of Contents 

Retail Business  

Summary  

The following table summarizes the results of our Retail Business for the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Retail Business Net Sales  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1Other retail includes our HauteLook online private sale subsidiary, our Jeffrey stores and our treasure&bond store.  

NET SALES – 2011 VS 2010  

Net sales for 2011 increased 12.7% compared with 2010 driven by the strength of our Nordstrom full-line stores, rapid growth in our online business and improving results at Nordstrom Rack. During the year, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores, eighteen Nordstrom Rack stores and one treasure&bond store, relocated two Nordstrom Rack stores and acquired HauteLook. These additions represented 4.0% of our total net sales for 2011, and increased our gross square footage by 3.8%. Same-store sales increased 7.2%, with increases of 8.2% at Nordstrom and 3.7% at Nordstrom Rack.  

Nordstrom net sales for 2011 were $8,426, an increase of 9.4% compared with 2010, with same-store sales up 8.2%. Our sales growth was due in large part to our investments and efforts to build stronger relationships with customers and to improve the shopping experience across all channels. In addition, our merchandising, inventory management and multi-channel initiatives continue to drive our sales growth. Both the average selling price and the number of items sold increased in 2011 compared with 2010. Category highlights included Designer, Handbags and Shoes. The South and Midwest were the top-performing geographic regions for 2011. The Direct channel continued to outpace the overall Nordstrom increase, with a net sales increase of 29.5% in 2011 compared with 2010.  

Nordstrom Rack net sales were $2,045, an increase of 21.0% compared with 2010, while same-store sales increased 3.7% for the year. Shoes, Dresses and Accessories were the strongest performing categories for the year. Both the average selling price and the number of items sold increased in 2011 compared with 2010.  

20  

Table of Contents 

NET SALES – 2010 VS 2009  

Net sales for 2010 increased 12.7% compared with 2009, while same-store sales increased 8.1%. During the year, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores, relocated one Nordstrom full-line store, opened seventeen Nordstrom Rack stores and relocated one Nordstrom Rack store. These stores represented 3.3% of our total net sales for 2010, and increased our gross square footage by 4.7%.  

Nordstrom net sales were $7,700, up 11.2% compared with 2009, with same-store sales up 9.3%. The number of items sold increased in 2010 compared with 2009, while the average selling price of Nordstrom merchandise was approximately flat. Category highlights included Jewelry, Shoes and Dresses. The Midwest and South were the top-performing geographic regions for 2010. Our sales growth was due in large part to the success of our merchandising, inventory management and multi-channel initiatives, including an updated inventory platform that allowed for shared inventory across all of our Nordstrom full-line stores and our website. These enhancements increased sales and led to significant improvements in our sell-through and inventory turnover rates beginning in the second half of 2009 and continuing throughout 2010.  

Nordstrom Rack net sales were $1,720, up 19.5% compared with 2009, while same-store sales increased 0.7% for the year. Cosmetics and Shoes were the strongest performing categories for the year. The number of items sold increased in 2010 compared with 2009, partially offset by declines in the average selling price of Nordstrom Rack merchandise.  

Retail Business Gross Profit  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1  Retailers do not uniformly record the costs of buying and occupancy and supply chain operations (freight, purchasing, receiving, distribution, etc.) between gross profit and selling, general and administrative expense. As such, our gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses and rates may not be comparable to other retailers’ expenses and rates.  

2  Inventory turnover rate is calculated as annual cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments) divided by 4-quarter average inventory.  

GROSS PROFIT – 2011 VS 2010  

Retail gross profit increased $501 in 2011 compared with 2010 due to higher sales and merchandise margin, partially offset by an increase in occupancy costs for stores opened during both 2011 and 2010. Our gross profit rate improved 54 basis points compared with 2010 primarily due to leveraging buying and occupancy costs on higher net sales.  

Our merchandising efforts enabled us to manage inventory levels consistent with our sales trends, with an increase in our average inventory per square foot of 7.5% on an 8.5% increase in sales per square foot. Our inventory turnover rate remained in-line with the high rate achieved in 2010, reflecting the strong execution and discipline of our buying organization and the ongoing benefits from our multi-channel capabilities that contributed to a flow of fresh merchandise throughout the year.  

GROSS PROFIT – 2010 VS 2009  

Retail gross profit increased $494 in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to higher sales and merchandise margin, partially offset by increases in occupancy costs for Nordstrom full-line and Nordstrom Rack stores opened during both 2010 and 2009. Our gross profit rate improved 123 basis points compared with 2009 primarily due to improvement in our merchandise margin, as well as leveraging buying and occupancy costs on higher net sales. Both our regular-priced selling and inventory turnover rate increased in 2010 compared with 2009, and our average inventory per square foot increased 3.1%.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 21  

Table of Contents 

Retail Business Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1  Retail SG&A expense per square foot is calculated as Retail SG&A expense divided by weighted-average square footage. Weighted-average square footage includes a percentage of year-end square footage for new stores equal to the percentage of the year during which they were open.  

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2011 VS 2010  

Our Retail selling, general and administrative expenses (“Retail SG&A”) increased $395 in 2011 compared with 2010. This increase reflects initiatives to improve the shopping experience across all channels and specifically to grow our e-commerce business. These include HauteLook operating and purchase accounting expenses, planned increases in marketing and technology spending and increased fulfillment expenses associated with the introduction of free standard shipping and free returns for online purchases in the third quarter of 2011. The increase was also due in part to higher sales volume and the opening of twenty-two stores in 2011. As a result, our Retail SG&A rate increased 84 basis points for 2011 compared with 2010. We continue to leverage SG&A expense in our stores, with improvements of approximately 35 basis points in 2011, compared with 2010.  

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2010 VS 2009  

Our Retail selling, general and administrative expenses increased $303 in 2010 compared with 2009. The majority of the increase in expense dollars was due to higher sales volume and expenses for new stores. Our Retail SG&A rate increased 38 basis points for 2010 compared with 2009. The increase was in part due to planned increases in marketing and technology expenses in areas such as online marketing and social media. The increased Retail SG&A rate also reflects higher fulfillment costs as we shipped more items to our customers.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Credit Segment  

The Nordstrom credit and debit card products are designed to strengthen customer relationships and grow retail sales by providing valuable services, loyalty benefits and payment products. We believe that owning all aspects of our credit business allows us to fully integrate our rewards program with our retail stores and provide better service to our customers, thus deepening our relationship with them and driving greater customer loyalty. Our cardholders tend to visit our stores more frequently and spend more with us than non-cardholders, and we believe the Nordstrom Fashion Rewards® program helps drive sales in our Retail segment. Our Nordstrom private label credit and debit cards can be used only in Nordstrom stores and on our website (“inside volume”), while our Nordstrom VISA cards also may be used for purchases outside of Nordstrom (“outside volume”). Cardholders participate in the Fashion Rewards program, through which they accumulate points based on their level of spending (generally two points per dollar spent at Nordstrom and one point per dollar spent outside of Nordstrom). Upon reaching two thousand points, customers receive twenty dollars in Nordstrom Notes®, which can be redeemed for goods or services in our stores or online. Starting in January 2012, all Fashion Rewards customers receive a credit for complimentary alterations and personal triple points days, in addition to early access to sales events. As part of these changes, Nordstrom Rack is also now included with all bonus points events and the spend requirements for customers to achieve our two highest benefit levels have been lowered. With increased spending, Fashion Rewards customers can receive additional amounts of these benefits as well as access to exclusive fashion and shopping events.  

The table below provides a detailed view of the operational results of our Credit segment, consistent with the segment disclosure provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In order to better reflect the economic contribution of our credit and debit card program, intercompany merchant fees are also included in the table below. Intercompany merchant fees represent the estimated intercompany income of our Credit segment from the usage of our cards in the Retail segment. To encourage the use of Nordstrom cards in our stores, the Credit segment does not charge the Retail segment an intercompany interchange merchant fee. On a consolidated basis, we avoid costs that would be incurred if our customers used third-party cards.  

Interest expense is assigned to the Credit segment in proportion to the amount of estimated capital needed to fund our credit card receivables, which assumes a mix of 80% debt and 20% equity. The average credit card receivable investment metric included in the following table represents our best estimate of the amount of capital for our Credit segment that is financed by equity. Based on our research, debt as a percentage of credit card receivables for other credit card companies ranges from 70% to 90%. We believe that debt equal to 80% of our credit card receivables is appropriate given our overall capital structure goals.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 23  

Table of Contents 

Credit Card Revenues  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Credit card revenues include finance charges, interchange fees, late fees and other revenue. Finance charges represent interest earned on unpaid balances while late fees are assessed when cardholders pay less than their minimum balance by the payment due date. Interchange fees are earned from the use of Nordstrom VISA credit cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom.  

CREDIT CARD REVENUES – 2011 VS 2010  

Credit card revenues decreased $10 in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily due to a decrease in finance charge revenue, partially offset by an increase in interchange fees. Continued improvements in customer payment rates drove lower finance charge yields and slightly lower receivables, which resulted in a decrease in finance charge revenue. Our average credit card receivable balance in 2011 was $2,047, a decrease of $41, or 1.9%, from 2010. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interchange revenue due to increased use of our Nordstrom VISA credit cards at third parties.  

CREDIT CARD REVENUES – 2010 VS 2009  

Credit card revenues increased $20 in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to higher late fees, particularly in the first half of the year. Improving economic conditions over the year led to an increase in general consumer spending, improved payment rates, lower revolving balances and reduced delinquencies. Our average credit card receivable balance in 2010 was $2,088, a decrease of $11, or 0.5%, from 2009.  

Slightly higher average annual percentage rates, partially offset by lower revolving balances from improvements in customer payment rates, resulted in a small increase in finance charges in 2010 compared with 2009. Increased use of our Nordstrom VISA credit cards at third parties resulted in an increase in interchange fees in 2010 compared with 2009. Delinquencies increased during the first half of 2010 compared with the first half of 2009. Additionally, legal and regulatory changes in 2009 and 2010 affected our pricing and billing terms. Taken together, these factors resulted in an increase in late fees and other revenue in 2010 compared with 2009.  

Credit Segment Interest Expense  

Interest expense decreased to $13 in 2011 from $21 in 2010 and $41 in 2009 due to lower average interest rates applicable to the Credit segment.  

Credit Segment Cost of Sales and Related Buying and Occupancy Costs  

COST OF SALES AND RELATED BUYING AND OCCUPANCY COSTS – 2011 VS 2010  

Cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs, which includes the estimated cost of Nordstrom Notes that will be issued and redeemed under our Fashion Rewards program, increased to $75 in 2011 compared with $66 in 2010. The increase was due to additional expenses related to the Fashion Rewards program as a result of a 13.3% increase in volume on Nordstrom credit and debit cards and increased utilization of program benefits. We provide these benefits to our customers as participation in the Fashion Rewards program generates enhanced customer loyalty and incremental sales in our stores.  

COST OF SALES AND RELATED BUYING AND OCCUPANCY COSTS – 2010 VS 2009  

Cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs increased to $66 in 2010 compared with $55 in 2009. The increase was due to a 10.9% increase in volume on Nordstrom credit and debit cards and increased utilization of program benefits.  

Credit Segment Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Credit segment (“Credit SG&A”) are made up of operational and marketing expenses, and bad debt. These expenses are summarized in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2011 VS 2010  

Total Credit SG&A decreased $44 in 2011 compared with 2010, due to lower bad debt expense. The decrease in bad debt expense reflects continued improvement in our portfolio trends, the overall performance of our credit portfolio and economic trends, which are further discussed below. Operational and marketing expenses are incurred to support and service our credit and debit card products and the related rewards program.  

24  

Table of Contents 

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2010 VS 2009  

Total Credit SG&A decreased $83 in 2010 compared with 2009, due primarily to lower bad debt expense, partially offset by increases in operational and marketing expenses. The decrease in bad debt expense reflected continued improvement in our portfolio trends which are further discussed below. The increase in operational and marketing expenses was primarily driven by increased information technology expenses, higher collection agency fees from higher recoveries and expenses related to our Fashion Rewards program.  

Allowance for Credit Losses and Credit Trends  

The following table illustrates activity in the allowance for credit losses for the past three fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

CREDIT TRENDS  

During 2011, our delinquency and net write-off results continued the improvements that began in 2010. Write-offs were higher during the first half of both 2011 and 2010, reflecting accounts that became delinquent during the second half of the prior years. For the full year, net write-offs in 2011 were $131, or 6.3% of average credit card receivables, a significant improvement over 2010 which remained consistent with 2009. Delinquencies have improved in both 2011 and 2010, and combined with the write-off results, we reduced our allowance for credit losses by $30 in 2011 and by $45 in 2010.  

CREDIT QUALITY  

The quality of our credit card receivables at any time reflects, among other factors, general economic conditions, the creditworthiness of our cardholders and the success of our account management and collection activities. In general, credit quality tends to decline, and the risk of credit losses tends to increase, during periods of deteriorating economic conditions. Through our underwriting and risk management standards and practices, we seek to maintain a high quality cardholder portfolio, thereby mitigating our exposure to credit losses. As of January 28, 2012, 78.1% of our credit card receivables were from cardholders with FICO scores of 660 or above (generally considered “prime” according to industry standards) compared with 76.2% as of January 29, 2011.  

Total Company Results  

Interest Expense, Net  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET – 2011 VS 2010  

Interest expense, net increased $3 in 2011 compared with 2010 due to higher debt balances, partially offset by lower average interest rates.  

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET – 2010 VS 2009  

Interest expense, net decreased $11 in 2010 compared with 2009 due to lower average interest rates, partially offset by higher debt balances.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 25  

Table of Contents 

Income Tax Expense  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table illustrates the components of our effective tax rate for 2011, 2010 and 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

INCOME TAX EXPENSE – 2011 VS 2010  

The increase in the effective tax rate for 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to non-taxable acquisition-related items, including goodwill impairment.  

INCOME TAX EXPENSE – 2010 VS 2009  

The increase in the effective tax rate for 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to the impact of a non-recurring benefit of approximately $12 from a deferred tax adjustment during the first quarter of 2009 related to the closure of our 2007 federal tax return audit.  

Fourth Quarter Results  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Nordstrom’s fourth quarter performance was consistent with the strong trends the company experienced throughout 2011. Net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2011 were $236, or $1.11 per diluted share, compared with $232, or $1.04 per diluted share, in 2010.  

NET SALES  

Total sales for the quarter increased 12.5% to $3,169. Same-store sales increased 7.1%, with increases of 8.4% at Nordstrom and 2.2% at Nordstrom Rack.  

Nordstrom same-store sales increased 8.4% for the quarter. Both the average selling price of our merchandise and the number of items sold increased for the quarter ended January 28, 2012 compared with the same period last year. Category highlights for the quarter were Handbags, Designer and Cosmetics. The South and Midwest were the top-performing geographic regions relative to the fourth quarter of 2010. The Direct channel continued to show strong performance, with a net sales increase of 35.1% in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared with the same period in 2010.  

Nordstrom Rack net sales increased $85, or 17.7% for the quarter. Nordstrom Rack same-store sales increased 2.2% for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with the fourth quarter of 2010. The average selling price of Nordstrom Rack merchandise increased while the number of items sold decreased for the quarter, compared with the same period in the prior year. Shoes and Accessories were the leading categories for Nordstrom Rack.  

26  

Table of Contents 

GROSS PROFIT  

Our gross profit rate increased 12 basis points to 37.7% from 37.6% last year. The increase was driven by the ability to leverage buying and occupancy expenses. Our average inventory per square foot increased 11.9% on an 8.4% increase in sales per square foot compared with the fourth quarter of 2010. The higher increase in inventory per square foot, compared with the increase in sales per square foot, resulted from growing our inventory to what we consider to be an appropriate level to support our anticipated sales volume in the coming months.  

SELLING, GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES  

Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Retail Business increased $121 compared with last year’s fourth quarter. The increase was primarily attributable to various customer facing e-commerce initiatives, including HauteLook, and sales growth in both existing and new stores. Our Retail SG&A rate increased approximately 107 basis points, driven primarily by HauteLook, including the impact of goodwill impairment.  

In the fourth quarter, selling, general and administrative expenses for our Credit segment were $58, slightly up from $55 in 2010. The increase was primarily driven by higher collection agency fees from increased recovery efforts and an increase in information technology and marketing expenses, partially offset by lower bad debt expense resulting from continued improvements in our credit trends.  

For further information on our quarterly results in 2011 and 2010, refer to Note 17: Selected Quarterly Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  

2012 Outlook  

Our expectations for 2012 are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1Includes both our Retail gross profit and the cost of our loyalty program, which is recorded in our Credit segment, as a percentage of net sales.  

We plan to open one Nordstrom full-line store and have announced plans to open twelve Nordstrom Rack stores and relocate two Nordstrom Rack stores during 2012. This will increase our retail square footage by approximately 2.2%.  

We expect our gross profit rate to decrease approximately 5 to 35 basis points, after the significant increases in 2011 and 2010. The decrease is expected as a result of an increasing mix of Nordstrom Rack stores, a reduction in shipping revenue as a result of launching free shipping and free returns for online purchases in 2011 and expenses related to our enhanced Fashion Rewards program.  

The majority of the increase in our Retail SG&A expenses relates to our expectations for increased variable expenses consistent with the planned increase in sales, additional expenses from stores opened during 2011 and 2012 and accelerated investments in our business to improve the customer experience both in store and online.  

For our Credit segment, we expect credit card revenues to be flat to slightly higher as a result of increased volume, offset by higher payment rates. We expect Credit SG&A expenses to increase $10 to $20 when compared with 2011 results as no planned reduction in our allowance for credit losses is expected while 2011 included $30 of reductions.  

Interest expense, net is anticipated to increase $25 to $30 due to higher debt levels and a higher average cost of debt.  

The guidance above includes the impact of the 53rd week of 2012, which we expect to add approximately $160 to $170 to net sales, and approximately $0.03 to $0.05 to earnings per diluted share.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 27  

Table of Contents 

Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) (Non-GAAP financial measure)  

We define ROIC as follows:  

  ROIC =    

Net Operating Profit After Taxes    

   Average Invested Capital     

We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating our operating performance. When analyzed in conjunction with our net earnings and total assets and compared with return on assets (net earnings divided by average total assets), it provides investors with a useful tool to evaluate our ongoing operations and our management of assets from period to period. ROIC is one of our key financial metrics, and we also incorporate it into our executive incentive measures. We believe that overall performance as measured by ROIC correlates directly to shareholders’ return over the long term. For the 12 fiscal months ended January 28, 2012, our ROIC decreased to 13.3% compared with 13.6% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 29, 2011. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP, should not be considered a substitute for return on assets, net earnings or total assets as determined in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is return on assets, which increased to 8.7% from 8.6% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 28, 2012, compared with the 12 fiscal months ended January 29, 2011. The following is a comparison of return on assets to ROIC:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1  Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we purchased the property. Asset base is calculated as described in footnote 5 below.  

2Based upon our effective tax rate multiplied by the net operating profit for the 12 fiscal months ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011.  

3Based upon the trailing 12-month average, including cash and cash equivalents.  

4Based upon the trailing 12-month average for accounts payable, accrued salaries, wages and related benefits, and other current liabilities.  

5  Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base, which is calculated as the trailing 12-months rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the asset base we would record for our capitalized operating leases described in footnote 1.  

Our ROIC decreased compared with the prior year primarily due to an increase in our average invested capital, attributable primarily to growth in cash and cash equivalents. This was partly offset by an increase in our net operating profit after tax.  

28  

Table of Contents 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

We maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to maintain appropriate levels of short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows, available credit facilities and potential future borrowings are sufficient to finance our cash requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.  

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain our financial position, manage refinancing risk and allow flexibility for strategic initiatives. We regularly assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and other future investments. We believe our existing cash on-hand, operating cash flows, available credit facilities and potential future borrowings will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives.  

Operating Activities  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,177 in each of 2011 and 2010. The majority of our operating cash inflows are derived from sales. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our merchandise vendors (net of vendor allowances), payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short- and long-term borrowings.  

Cash provided by operating activities was flat in 2011 compared with 2010 due to higher sales and earnings offset primarily by changes in working capital, including increased inventory purchases to align with sales trends.  

In 2012, we expect our operating cash flows to increase as a result of higher sales and earnings.  

Investing Activities  

Net cash used in investing activities was $728 in 2011 and $462 in 2010. Our investing cash flows primarily consist of capital expenditures, changes in restricted cash accumulated for our next debt maturity in April 2012 and changes in credit card receivables associated with cardholder purchases outside of Nordstrom using our Nordstrom VISA credit cards.  

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES  

Our capital expenditures over the last three years totaled $1,270, with $511 in 2011, $399 in 2010 and $360 in 2009. Capital expenditures included investments in new stores, relocations and remodels and information technology improvements.  

Capital expenditures increased in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily due to e-commerce and technology investments and the timing of expenditures incurred for new stores and remodels. The following table summarizes our store count and square footage activity:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We relocated two Nordstrom Rack stores in 2011, compared with one Nordstrom full-line store and one Nordstrom Rack store in 2010. Our 2011 store openings and relocations increased our gross square footage by 3.8%.  

To date in 2012, we have opened one Nordstrom Rack store and relocated one Nordstrom Rack store. During the remainder of 2012, we anticipate opening one Nordstrom full-line store and eleven Nordstrom Rack stores, as well as relocating one Nordstrom Rack store. This will increase our gross square footage by approximately 2.2%.  

We received property incentives from our developers of $78 in 2011, $95 in 2010 and $96 in 2009. These incentives are included in our cash provided by operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows. However, operationally we view these as an offset to our capital expenditures. Our capital expenditure percentages, net of property incentives, by category are summarized as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other capital expenditures consist of ongoing improvements to our stores in the ordinary course of business and expenditures related to various growth initiatives.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 29  

Table of Contents 

We expect that our capital expenditures, net of property incentives, will be approximately $3,300 over the next five years, with approximately $480 to $520 in 2012. Over these five years, we expect that approximately 60% of our net capital expenditures will be for new store openings, relocations and remodels, 30% for information technology and 10% for other projects. Our current five-year plan includes thirteen new stores and three relocations announced through 2013, and two new stores announced with dates to be determined. These would represent a 3.3% increase in square footage. Of the announced new stores, twelve will be Nordstrom Rack stores. We believe that we have the capacity for additional capital investments should opportunities arise.  

CHANGE IN RESTRICTED CASH  

In connection with the April 2012 maturity of our securitized Series 2007-2 Class A & B Notes totaling $500, we began making monthly cash deposits into a restricted account in December 2011. As of January 28, 2012, we had accumulated $200, which is included in our consolidated balance sheet in prepaid expense and other. See further discussion in Credit Capacity and Commitments below.  

CHANGE IN CREDIT CARD RECEIVABLES ORIGINATED AT THIRD PARTIES  

The Nordstrom VISA credit cards allow our customers to make purchases at merchants outside of our stores and accumulate points for our Nordstrom Fashion Rewards® program. In 2011, change in credit card receivables from customers’ third-party purchases using their Nordstrom VISA credit cards decreased to $7, compared with $66 in 2010, as a result of improved payment rates.  

Financing Activities  

Net cash used in financing activities was $78 in 2011 compared with $4 in 2010. Our financing activities include our short-term and long-term borrowing activity, repurchases of common stock and dividends paid.  

SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM BORROWING ACTIVITY  

During 2011, we issued $500 of senior unsecured notes at 4.00%, due October 2021. After deducting the original issue discount of $1, net proceeds from the offering were $499. Additionally, we issued $325 Series 2011-1 Class A Notes at 2.28%, due October 2016. We had no short-term borrowings and no amounts outstanding on our revolving line of credit during the year.  

During 2011, we received proceeds of $72 from the sale of our interest rate swap agreements (collectively, the “swap”) with a $650 notional amount maturing in 2018. Under the swap, we received a fixed rate of 6.25% and paid a variable rate based on one-month LIBOR plus a margin of 2.9%. As of the swap’s sale date, the accumulated adjustment to our long-term debt was $72, which will be amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt.  

SHARE REPURCHASES  

In August 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program (the “2010 Program”) to repurchase up to $500 of our outstanding common stock, through January 28, 2012. In May 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a new program (the “2011 Program”) to repurchase up to $750 of our outstanding common stock, through February 2, 2013, in addition to the remaining amount available for repurchase under the 2010 Program. During 2011, we repurchased 18.5 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $851. We completed our 2010 Program in the second quarter of 2011, and as of January 28, 2012, had $310 in remaining share repurchase capacity under the 2011 Program. Subsequent to year-end, in February 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a new program (the “2012 Program”) to repurchase up to $800 of our outstanding common stock, through February 1, 2014, in addition to the amount available for repurchase under the 2011 Program. The actual number and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will be subject to market and economic conditions and applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules.  

DIVIDENDS  

In 2011, we paid dividends of $197, or $0.92 per share, compared with $167, or $0.76 per share, in 2010. During the first quarter of 2011, we increased our quarterly dividend from $0.20 per share to $0.23 per share. In determining the amount of dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, while taking into consideration our current and projected operating performance and liquidity. We target a 25% to 30% dividend payout ratio, which is calculated as our dividend payments divided by net earnings.  

In February 2012, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.27 per share, increased from $0.23 per share in 2011.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP financial measure)  

We define Free Cash Flow as:  

Free Cash Flow = Net Cash Provided By Operating Activities – Capital Expenditures – Cash Dividends Paid +/(–) Change in Credit Card Receivables Originated at Third Parties +/(–) Change in Cash Book Overdrafts  

Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides us with a meaningful analysis of our cash flows. We believe that our ability to generate cash is more appropriately analyzed using this measure. Free Cash Flow is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for operating cash flows as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Free Cash Flow does have limitations:  

   —     Free Cash Flow does not necessarily represent funds available for discretionary use and is not necessarily a measure of our ability to fund our cash needs; and  

   —     Other companies in our industry may calculate Free Cash Flow differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.  

To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Free Cash Flow in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows. The closest GAAP measure calculated using GAAP amounts is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $1,177 for each of the 12 months ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011. The following is a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities and Free Cash Flow:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Credit Capacity and Commitments  

As of January 28, 2012, we had total short-term borrowing capacity available for general corporate purposes of $800. Of the total capacity, we had $600 under our commercial paper program, which is backed by our unsecured revolving credit facility (“revolver”) and $200 under our 2007-A Variable Funding Note (“2007-A VFN”).  

During 2011, we entered into a new revolver with a capacity of $600, which expires in June 2016. This revolver replaced our previous $650 unsecured line of credit which was scheduled to expire in August 2012. Under the terms of the revolver, we pay a variable rate of interest and a commitment fee based on our debt rating. The revolver is available for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including liquidity support for our commercial paper program. We have the option to increase the revolving commitment by up to $100, to a total of $700, provided that we obtain written consent from the new lenders. During 2011, we had no borrowings under our revolver.  

Our $600 commercial paper program allows us to use the proceeds to fund share repurchases as well as operating cash requirements. Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing borrowing capacity under our revolver by an amount equal to the principal amount of commercial paper. During 2011, we had no outstanding issuances under our $600 commercial paper program.  

During 2011, we amended the terms of our 2007-A VFN to reduce the borrowing capacity to $200, maturing in January 2013, from the previous $300 facility. The 2007-A VFN is backed by all of the Nordstrom private label card receivables and a 90% interest in the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables. Borrowings under the 2007-A VFN incur interest based upon one-month LIBOR plus 35 basis points. We pay a commitment fee for the notes based on the size of the commitment. During 2011, we had no borrowings against this facility.  

Our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb, also maintains a variable funding facility with a short-term credit capacity of $100. This facility is backed by the remaining 10% interest in the Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables and is available, if needed, to provide liquidity support to Nordstrom fsb. Borrowings under the facility incur interest based upon the cost of commercial paper issued by the third-party bank conduit plus specified fees. During 2011, Nordstrom fsb had no borrowings under this facility.  

We currently have an automatic shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, whereby we are authorized to issue registered debt.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 31  

Table of Contents 

Our next debt maturity is in April 2012 for our $500 securitized Series 2007-2 Class A & B Notes. In connection with this debt maturity, we began making monthly cash deposits into a restricted account in December 2011. As of January 28, 2012, we had accumulated $200, which is included in our consolidated balance sheet in prepaid expense and other. After evaluating credit markets and our financing needs as we approached this maturity, we issued $500 of senior unsecured notes and $325 of securitized Series 2011-1 Class A Notes, in the second half of 2011. This will allow us to maintain an Adjusted Debt to Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent ratio within our targeted range. We continue to monitor credit markets and our potential future financing needs in order to ensure we have adequate cash on hand. In the first quarter of 2012, we expect to retire the Series 2007-2 Class A & B Notes with the accumulated restricted cash upon maturity.  

We maintain trade and standby letters of credit to facilitate international payments. As of January 28, 2012, we have $10 available under a trade letter of credit, with $2 outstanding. We additionally hold a $15 standby letter of credit, with $1 outstanding under this facility at the end of the year.  

Impact of Credit Ratings  

Under the terms of our $600 revolver, any borrowings we may enter into will accrue interest at a floating base rate tied to LIBOR in the case of Euro-Dollar Rate Loans and to the highest of: (i) the Euro-Dollar rate plus 100 basis points, (ii) the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points and (iii) the prime rate in the case of Base Rate Loans.  

The rate depends upon the type of borrowing incurred, plus in each case an applicable margin. This applicable margin varies depending upon the credit ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt. At the time of this report, our long-term unsecured debt ratings, outlook and resulting applicable margin were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt improve, the applicable margin associated with any such borrowings may decrease, resulting in a slightly lower cost of capital under this facility. Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt worsen, the applicable margin associated with our borrowings may increase, resulting in a slightly higher cost of capital under this facility.  

Debt Covenants  

The revolver requires that we maintain a leverage ratio, defined as Adjusted Debt to Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent (“EBITDAR”), of less than four times (see the following additional discussion of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR).  

As of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, we were in compliance with this covenant. We will continue to monitor this covenant to ensure that we make any necessary adjustments to our plans, and we believe that we will remain in compliance with this covenant during 2012.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)  

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our current goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating as well as operate with an efficient capital structure for our size, growth plans and industry. Investment-grade credit ratings are important to maintaining access to a variety of short-term and long-term sources of funding, and we rely on these funding sources to continue to grow our business. We believe a higher ratio, among other factors, could result in rating agency downgrades. In contrast, we believe a lower ratio would result in a higher cost of capital and could negatively impact shareholder returns. As of January 28, 2012, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.4 compared with 2.2 as of January 29, 2011. The increase was primarily the result of increased levels of debt as a result of new borrowings during 2011, a portion of which was done in anticipation of pre-funding our next debt maturity in April 2012 for our $500 securitized Series 2007-2 Class A & B Notes.  

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR does have limitations:  

   —     Adjusted Debt is not exact, but rather our best estimate of the total company debt we would hold if we had purchased the property and issued debt associated with our operating leases;  

   —     EBITDAR does not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments, including leases, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt; and  

   —     Other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.  

To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows, capital spending and net earnings. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is debt to net earnings, which was 5.3 and 4.5 for 2011 and 2010. The following is a comparison of debt to net earnings and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1  The components of Adjusted Debt are as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, while the components of EBITDAR are for the 12 months ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011.  

2  The multiple of eight times rent expense used to calculate Adjusted Debt is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we had purchased the property.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 33  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of January 28, 2012. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $1,725 as of January 28, 2012, payable over the remaining life of the debts.  

The capital and operating lease obligations in the table above do not include payments for operating expenses that are required by most of our lease agreements. Such expenses, which include common area charges, real estate taxes and other executory costs, totaled $69 in 2011, $65 in 2010 and $60 in 2009. In addition, some of our leases require additional rental payments based on a percentage of our sales, referred to as “percentage rent.” Percentage rent, which is also excluded from the obligations in the table above, was $12 in 2011 and $9 in each of 2010 and 2009.  

Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services and capital expenditure commitments.  

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and general liability insurance reserves and postretirement benefits. The payment amounts presented above were estimated based on historical payment trends. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above. Also excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $18, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash payments, if any, for these liabilities.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We enter into commitments to extend credit to customers for use at third parties through our Nordstrom VISA credit cards. The unused credit card capacity available to our customers represents an off-balance sheet commitment. As of January 28, 2012, this unfunded commitment was $14,284.  

We had no other off-balance sheet arrangements, other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business, during 2011.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES  

The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we believe are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures that follow.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses reflects our best estimate of the losses inherent in our credit card receivables as of the balance sheet date, including uncollectible finance charges and fees. We estimate such credit losses based on several factors, including historical aging and delinquency trends, write-off experience, concentration and risk metrics, and general economic conditions.  

We believe the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover anticipated losses in our credit card receivables under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the factors mentioned above could materially change these expectations. During 2011, our delinquency and net write-off results continued the improvements began in 2010. As a result of these improvements, we reduced our allowance for credit losses by $30 during 2011, from $145 to $115, and by $45 during 2010, from $190 to $145. A 10% change in our allowance for credit losses would have affected net earnings by $7 for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Revenue Recognition  

We recognize revenue from sales at our retail stores at the point of sale, net of an allowance for estimated sales returns. Revenue from our sales to customers shipped directly from our stores and our online and catalog sales includes shipping revenue, when applicable, and is recognized upon estimated receipt by the customer. We estimate customer merchandise returns based on historical return patterns and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly.  

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, there is a possibility that actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of our sales return reserve. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had a $6 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 28, 2012.  

Inventory  

Our merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories and the resulting gross margins are determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margin.  

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Our obsolescence reserve contains uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.  

We do not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence reserve. A 10% change in the obsolescence reserve would not have had a material effect on our net earnings for the year ended January 28, 2012.  

Goodwill  

We review our goodwill annually for impairment, or when circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable. We perform this evaluation at the reporting unit level, comprised of the principal business units within our Retail segment. To assess the fair value of our HauteLook goodwill, we utilize both an income approach and a market approach. To determine the fair value of goodwill related to nordstrom.com and Jeffrey, we utilize a market approach. We compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value to determine if there is potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill within the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the goodwill.  

As part of our impairment testing, we utilize certain assumptions and apply judgment regarding a number of factors. Significant estimates in the market approach include identifying similar companies and acquisitions with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return of investment and assessing comparable earnings or revenue multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit. Assumptions in the income approach include future cash flows for the business, future growth rates and discount rates. Estimates of cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to the business model or changes in operating performance. Based on the results of our 2011 review, we recognized an impairment charge of $25 related to our HauteLook goodwill. We did not recognize an impairment loss for goodwill in 2010. A 10% change in our fair value measurement for HauteLook goodwill would have impacted net earnings by approximately $15 for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012.  

Income Taxes  

We regularly evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances and information available to us. If we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained, we recognize a benefit at the largest amount which we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our unrecognized tax benefit was $21 as of January 28, 2012 and $43 as of January 29, 2011.  

Unrecognized tax benefits require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits and our particular facts and circumstances. Also, as audits are completed or statutes of limitations lapse, it may be necessary to record adjustments to our taxes payable, deferred tax assets, tax reserves or income tax expense. Such adjustments did not materially impact our effective income tax rate in 2011 or 2010.  

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect any of these pronouncements to have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 35  

Table of Contents 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.