Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. However, these are not the only risks we face.  

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS  

We sell high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories, which many consumers consider to be discretionary items. During economic downturns, fewer customers may shop in our stores and on our website, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases, all of which may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending in response to lower demand. Deterioration of economic conditions and consumer confidence may also adversely affect our credit customers’ payment patterns and delinquency rates, increasing our bad debt expense. Some macroeconomic indicators suggest that a modest economic recovery has begun, however key factors such as employment levels, consumer credit and housing market conditions remain weak. A sluggish economic recovery or a renewed downturn could have a significant adverse effect on our business.  

IMPACT OF COMPETITIVE MARKET FORCES  

The fashion specialty retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with other national, regional, local and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, boutiques and Internet businesses. Online retail shopping is rapidly evolving and we expect competition in the e-commerce market to intensify in the future as the Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. If we are unable to remain competitive in the key areas of customer service, the shopping experience across all channels, fashion newness, quality of products, depth of selection, store environment and location, we may lose market share to our competitors and our sales and profitability could suffer.  

We believe owning our credit business allows us to fully integrate our loyalty program and drive more sales. Many of our competitors also offer general-purpose credit card products with a variety of loyalty programs. Our Credit segment faces competition from other retailers, large banks and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. In addition, there is intense competition for cardholders with “prime” credit ratings who make up a significant portion of our credit portfolio. If we do not effectively anticipate or respond to the competitive banking and credit card environment, we could lose market share to our competitors, which could have an adverse effect on our credit business.  

6  

Table of Contents 

ABILITY TO ANTICIPATE AND RESPOND TO CONSUMER PREFERENCES AND FASHION TRENDS  

We strive to ensure the merchandise we offer and our shopping experience, both in store and online, remain current and compelling to our customers. We make decisions regarding inventory purchases well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. Therefore, our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns, and to match our merchandise levels, mix and shopping experience to sales trends and consumer tastes, significantly impacts our sales and operating results. If we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. If we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at higher average markdown levels and lower average margins, which could harm our business. Conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and damage our relationships with our customers.  

GROWTH STRATEGY  

Our strategic growth plan focuses on both our stores and on e-commerce. There are risks associated with opening new stores. The availability and cost of suitable locations for our stores depends on a number of factors, including competition from other retailers and businesses, local land use and other regulations, new shopping center construction and developers’ financial condition. New store openings also involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. Our sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could adversely affect our return on investment. As part of our growth strategy, we also intend to open stores in new and international markets. Expansion will require management attention and resources and may ultimately be unsuccessful, which could harm our future business development. In addition, competition from strong local competitors, compliance with foreign and local laws and regulatory requirements and potentially unfavorable tax consequences may cause our business to be adversely impacted.  

We are also pursuing a heightened focus on technology to enhance our website and mobile capabilities, broaden the selection of our online merchandise offering and improve the speed and quality of our delivery of merchandise to customers. In addition, other growth opportunities may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to improve the customer shopping experience in our stores and online. If these technologies and investments do not perform as expected, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected.  

LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND SUCCESSION PLANNING  

The training and development of our future leaders is important to our long-term success. If we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop future leaders, our business may suffer. We rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace. If unexpected leadership turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any negative perceptions of our business as a result of those losses, could damage our brand image and our business.  

MERCHANDISE PLANNING  

We are making investments to improve our multi-channel merchandise planning, procurement and allocation capabilities. These efforts involve changes in personnel, processes and technology over a period of several years. If we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy could be adversely affected. As a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current projections.  

INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY  

The protection of our customer, employee and company data is vitally important to us. As we operate in multiple retail channels and maintain our own credit operations, we are subject to privacy, security and cybersecurity risks and incidents. Our business involves the storage and transmission of customers’ personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information, in addition to employee information and company financial and strategic data. In addition, we use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our customers. Some of our critical systems also depend upon third party providers.  

As techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, sabotage systems or otherwise attack our services change frequently and often are unforeseen, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures and they may remain undetected for some period. Concurrently, measures that we may take to prevent risks of fraud and breaches of privacy, security and cybersecurity have the potential to harm relations with our customers or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use or restricting the ability to meet customers’ expectations in terms of shopping experience. Any measures we implement to prevent a security or cybersecurity risk may not be totally effective. In addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. Security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at our company or our third party providers, could expose us to a risk of loss or misappropriation of this information, litigation, potential liability, reputation damage and loss of customers’ trust and business.  

We have expended, and will continue to expend, significant resources to protect our customers and ourselves against these breaches and to ensure an effective response to an internal or external security or cybersecurity breach, either actual or perceived.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 7  

Table of Contents 

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY  

Our access to debt and equity capital, and our ability to invest capital to maximize the total returns to our shareholders, is critical to our long-term success. We utilize capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Our ability to obtain capital and the cost of the capital depend on company performance, financial market conditions and independent rating agencies’ short- and long-term debt ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. If our access to capital is restricted or if our cost of capital increases, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected.  

BRAND AND REPUTATION  

We have a well-recognized brand that consumers may associate with a high level of customer service and quality merchandise, and is one of the reasons employees choose Nordstrom as a place of employment. Any significant damage to our brand or reputation could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees, any of which would harm our business.  

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY  

We make investments in information technology and systems developments to advance our competitive position, and we believe they are key to our growth. We must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. Excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from the technology. Targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs may result in the loss of our competitive position. In addition, if we do not maintain our current systems, we may see interruptions to our business and increase our costs in order to bring our systems up to date.  

LAWS, REGULATIONS AND LITIGATION  

Our policies, procedures and practices are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC, the marketplace, the banking industry and foreign countries, which may change from time to time. These obligations are complex, continuously evolving and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of California, which has increased the cost of compliance. Significant legislative changes, including those that relate to employment matters and health care reform, could impact our relationship with our workforce, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. Possible legislative changes include changes to an employer’s obligation to recognize collective bargaining units. Recent health care reform could materially increase our employee-related costs and if it is necessary to make changes to the health benefits provided to our employees as a result of health care reform, we may not be able to offer competitive health care benefits to attract and retain employees. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. Any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. In addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal and state tax laws which may increase our tax liabilities. An increase in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. We are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition.  

FINANCIAL SYSTEM REFORMS  

The recent financial crisis resulted in increased legislative and regulatory changes affecting the financial industry. The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 included new rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. These rules required us to make changes to our credit card business practices and systems, and we expect more regulations and interpretations of the new rules to emerge. Depending on the nature and extent of the full impact from these rules, and any interpretations or additional rules, the revenues and profitability of our Credit segment could be adversely affected.  

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted in July 2010. It significantly restructures regulatory oversight and other aspects of the financial industry, creates a new federal agency to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations and expands state authority over consumer lending. Numerous regulations will be issued in the near future to implement the requirements of this Act. The final regulatory details remain uncertain at this time. Depending on the nature and extent of these regulations, and the enforcement approach of regulators under the new law, there could be an adverse impact to our Credit segment.  

AVAILABILITY AND COST OF MERCHANDISE  

Our relationships with our merchandise vendors have been a significant contributor to our success and our position as a retailer of high-quality fashion merchandise. We have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our key vendors, many of whom limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise. Competition to obtain and sell this merchandise is intense. Nearly all of the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers, and many of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores and websites. If one or more of our top vendors were to limit or reduce our access to their merchandise, our business could be adversely affected. Further, if our merchandise costs increase due to increased raw material or labor costs or other factors, our ability to respond or the effect of our response could adversely affect our sales or gross margins.  

8  

Table of Contents 

CONSUMER CREDIT  

Our credit card operations help drive sales in our stores, allow our stores to avoid third-party transaction fees and generate additional revenues from extending credit. Our credit card revenues and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends, laws and regulations and other factors. Elevated levels of unemployment have historically corresponded with increased credit card delinquencies and write-offs, which may continue in the future. Further, these economic conditions could impair our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the criteria and/or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses. This could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations.  

BUSINESS CONTINUITY  

Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. We derive a significant amount of our total sales from stores located on the west and east coasts of the United States, particularly in California, which increases our exposure to conditions in these regions. These disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales; staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers or corporate offices; interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores; disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers; increased costs; and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans.  

ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS  

We are incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, one provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (an “acquiring person”) for a period of five years following the time that the shareholder became an acquiring person.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 9  

Table of Contents 

Item 2. Properties.