PART I  

Item 1. Business.  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

Founded in 1901 as a retail shoe business in Seattle, Nordstrom later incorporated in the state of Washington in 1946. We are one of the nation’s leading fashion specialty retailers, with 225 U.S. stores located in 30 states as of March 16, 2012. The west and east coasts of the United States are the areas in which we have the largest presence. We have two reportable segments: Retail and Credit.  

As of March 16, 2012, the Retail segment includes our 116 ‘Nordstrom’ branded full-line stores and our online store at www.nordstrom.com, our 105 off-price ‘Nordstrom Rack’ stores and our other retail channels including our online private sale subsidiary ‘HauteLook,’ our two ‘Jeffrey’ boutiques, one philanthropic ‘treasure&bond’ store and one clearance store that operates under the name ‘Last Chance.’ Through these multiple retail channels, we offer our customers a wide selection of high-quality brand name and private label merchandise focused on apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories. Our integrated Nordstrom full-line stores and online store allow us to provide our customers with a seamless shopping experience across all channels. Purchases within our stores are primarily fulfilled from that store’s inventory, but may also be shipped to our customers from our fulfillment center in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, or from other Nordstrom full-line stores for inventory unavailable at the original store. Online purchases are primarily shipped to our customers from our Cedar Rapids fulfillment center, but may also be shipped from our Nordstrom full-line stores. Our customers also have the option to pick up online orders in our Nordstrom full-line stores if inventory is available at that location. These capabilities allow us to better serve customers across various channels and improve sales. The Nordstrom Rack stores purchase high-quality name brand merchandise directly from vendors and also serve as outlets for clearance merchandise from our Nordstrom stores. In the first quarter of 2011, we acquired HauteLook, an online private sale retailer offering limited-time sale events on fashion and lifestyle brands. This acquisition enables us to participate in the fast-growing private sale marketplace. See Note 2: HauteLook in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion. In the third quarter of 2011, we opened treasure&bond, a philanthropic store in New York.  

Our Credit segment includes our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb, through which we provide a private label credit card, two Nordstrom VISA credit cards and a debit card. The credit and debit cards feature a shopping-based loyalty program designed to increase customer visits and spending. Although the primary purpose of our Credit business is to foster greater customer loyalty and drive more sales, we also generate revenues through finance charges and other fees on these cards.  

For more information about our business and our reportable segments, see Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 16: Segment Reporting in Item 8.  

FISCAL YEAR  

We operate on a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to January 31st. References to 2011, 2010 and 2009 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, respectively. References to 2012 relate to the 53-week fiscal year ending February 2, 2013.  

TRADEMARKS  

We have 135 trademarks, each of which is the subject of one or more trademark registrations and/or trademark applications. Our most notable trademarks include Nordstrom, Nordstrom Rack, Halogen, Caslon, Classiques Entier and John W. Nordstrom. Each of our trademarks is renewable indefinitely provided that it is still used in commerce at the time of the renewal.  

RETURN POLICY  

We offer our customers a liberal return policy at our Nordstrom full-line stores and online at www.nordstrom.com. In general, our return policy is considered to be more generous than industry standards. Our Nordstrom Rack stores accept returns up to 30 days from the date of purchase with the original price tag and sales receipt. HauteLook accepts returns of certain specific merchandise categories within 21 days from the date of shipment.  

SEASONALITY  

Due to our Anniversary Sale in July, the holidays in December and the half-yearly sales that occur in the second and fourth quarters, our sales are typically higher in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year than in the first and third quarters. In 2012, our Anniversary Sale will shift to the last week of July and the first week of August, which will move one week of event sales to the third quarter.  

INVENTORY  

We plan our merchandise purchases and receipts to coincide with expected sales trends. For instance, our merchandise purchases and receipts increase prior to our Anniversary Sale, which has historically extended over the last two weeks of July. As discussed above, in 2012, this will shift to the last week of July and the first week of August. Also, we purchase and receive a larger amount of merchandise in the fall as we prepare for the holiday shopping season (from late November through December). We pay for our merchandise purchases under the terms established with our vendors.  

In order to offer merchandise that our customers want, we purchase merchandise from a wide variety of high-quality suppliers, including domestic and foreign businesses. We also have arrangements with agents and contract manufacturers to produce our private label merchandise. We expect our suppliers to meet our “Nordstrom Partnership Guidelines,” which address our corporate social responsibility standards for matters such as legal and regulatory compliance, labor, health and safety and the environment.  

4  

Table of Contents 

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS  

We operate in a highly competitive business environment. We compete with other national, regional and local retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, boutiques and Internet businesses. Our specific competitors vary from market to market. We believe the keys to competing in our industry include, first and foremost, customer service, the shopping experience across all channels, fashion newness, quality of product, breadth of selection, store environment, convenience and location.  

EMPLOYEES  

During 2011, we employed approximately 56,500 employees on a full- or part-time basis. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, employment increased to approximately 58,000 employees in July 2011 and 61,500 in December 2011. Substantially all of our employees are non-union. We believe our relationship with our employees is good.  

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT  

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain or may suggest “forward-looking” information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated financial results (such as our anticipated total and same-store sales results, credit card revenues, gross profit rate, selling, general and administrative expenses, net interest expense, effective tax rate, diluted shares outstanding, earnings per diluted share, 53rd week impact to net sales and diluted earnings per share, operating cash flows, dividend payout, Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”)), anticipated store openings, capital expenditures, trends in our operations, compliance with debt covenants and outcome of claims and litigation. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company’s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including, but not limited to:  

   —     the impact of economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns,  

   —     our ability to respond to the business environment, fashion trends and consumer preferences, including changing expectations of service and experience in stores and online,  

   —     effective inventory management,  

   —     successful execution of our growth strategy, including possible expansion into new markets, technological investments and acquisitions, including our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, and the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties,  

   —     our ability to maintain relationships with our employees and to effectively attract, develop and retain our future leaders,  

   —     successful execution of our multi-channel strategy,  

   —     our compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting our ability to extend credit to our customers,  

   —     impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system and health care reforms,  

   —     the impact of any systems failures, cybersecurity and/or security breaches, including any security breaches that result in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or company information or our compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations in the event of such an incident,  

   —     our compliance with employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us,  

   —     availability and cost of credit,  

   —     our ability to safeguard our brand and reputation,  

   —     successful execution of our information technology strategy,  

   —     our ability to maintain our relationships with vendors,  

   —     trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs,  

   —     changes in interest rates,  

   —     efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources,  

   —     weather conditions, natural disasters, health hazards or other market disruptions, or the prospects of these events and the impact on consumer spending patterns,  

   —     disruptions in our supply chain,  

   —     the geographic locations of our stores,  

   —     the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns,  

   —     our ability to control costs, and  

   —     the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company, if any, or any share issuances by the company, including issuances associated with option exercises or other matters.  

These and other factors could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.  

SEC FILINGS  

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All material we file with the SEC is publicly available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 5  

Table of Contents 

WEBSITE ACCESS  

Our website address is www.nordstrom.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“XBRL”) format), current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, statements of changes in beneficial ownership of securities on Form 4 and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the report with or furnish it to the SEC. Interested parties may also access a webcast of quarterly earnings conference calls and other financial events through our website.  

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

We have a long-standing commitment to upholding a high level of ethical standards. In addition, as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and the rules of the SEC, we have adopted Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics for our employees, officers and directors (“Codes of Ethics”) and Corporate Governance Guidelines. We have posted on our website our Codes of Ethics, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Committee Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and Finance Committees. Any amendments and waivers to these will also be available on our website.  

These items are also available in print to any person, without charge, upon request to:  

Nordstrom Investor Relations  

PO Box 2737  

Seattle, Washington 98111-2737  

(206) 233-6564  

invrelations@nordstrom.com  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.