PART I  

 Item 1. Business.  

General Development and Description of Business and Business Segments  

Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, as used herein, “Hasbro”, the “Company”, “we”, or “us”, means Hasbro, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation organized on January 8, 1926, and its subsidiaries.  

Overview  

We are a branded-play company dedicated to fulfilling the fundamental need for play for children and families through creative expression of the Company’s world class brand portfolio. From toys and games to television programming, motion pictures, digital gaming and a comprehensive licensing program, Hasbro executes its brand blueprint in all of its operations. At the center of its brand blueprint, Hasbro re-imagines, re-invents, and re-ignites its owned and controlled brands, and imagines, invents and ignites new brands, through toy and game innovation, immersive entertainment offerings, including television programming and motion pictures, and a broad range of licensed products, ranging from traditional to high-tech and digital, under well-known brand names structured within the Company’s brand architecture.  

The Company’s brand architecture identifies franchise brands, challenger brands, gaming mega brands, key partner brands and new brands. The Company’s franchise and challenger brands represent Company-owned brands which if not entirely owned, are broadly controlled by the Company, and which have been successful over the long term. Franchise brands are the Company’s most significant owned or controlled brands which it believes have the ability to deliver significant revenue over the long-term. Challenger brands are brands which have not yet achieved franchise brand status, but which the Company believes have the potential to do so with investment and time. The Company’s franchise brands are LITTLEST PET SHOP, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MONOPOLY, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, PLAY-DOH and TRANSFORMERS, while challenger brands include BABY ALIVE, DUEL MASTERS, FURBY, FURREAL FRIENDS and PLAYSKOOL. The Company’s gaming mega brands are BOP IT!, CONNECT 4, ELEFUN & FRIENDS, JENGA, LIFE, OPERATION and TWISTER. Hasbro also seeks to imagine, invent and ignite new or archived brands offering engaging branded play experiences. In addition to product offerings under Hasbro-owned brands, or brands which if not entirely  

1  

Table of Contents 

 owned are broadly controlled by the Company, offerings may also include products which are branded and developed under key licenses. Significant partner brands include BEYBLADE, MARVEL characters including SPIDER-MAN and THE AVENGERS, ROVIO, SESAME STREET and STAR WARS product offerings. Both MARVEL and STAR WARS are owned by the Walt Disney Company (“Disney”).  

Our innovative product offerings encompass a broad variety of toys including boys’ action figures, vehicles and playsets, girls’ toys, electronic toys, plush products, preschool toys and infant products, electronic interactive products, creative play and toy-related specialty products. Games offerings include action battling, board, off-the-board, digital, card, electronic, trading card and role-playing games.  

As part of our brand blueprint, we seek to expand our brands through entertainment, including television and movies, digital gaming and out-licensing. Hasbro Studios LLC (“Hasbro Studios”), our wholly-owned production studio, produces television programming primarily based on our brands and distributes such programming globally. Domestically, Hasbro Studios distributes television programming to Hub Television Network, LLC (“Hub Network”), a joint venture between the Company and Discovery Communications, Inc. (“Discovery”), which operates a cable television network in the United States dedicated to high-quality children’s and family entertainment. Hasbro Studios also distributes television programming internationally to broadcasters and cable networks as well as on various digital platforms like iTunes and Netflix. In July 2013, the Company acquired a 70% majority stake in Backflip Studios, LLC (“Backflip”), a mobile game developer, which allows us to leverage Backflip’s existing and new intellectual properties while also extending our own brands through mobile digital gaming. Lastly, we license certain of our trademarks, characters and other property rights to third parties for use in connection with digital gaming, consumer promotions, and for the sale of non-competing toys and games and lifestyle products, or in certain situations, to utilize them for toy products where we consider the out-licensing of brands to be more effective.  

Product Categories  

A key part of our brand blueprint focuses on the importance of reinforcing the storyline associated with our brands through the use of media-based entertainment, including television, motion pictures and digital media as well as creating a digital environment for certain products through the use of digital applications and internet websites. In addition, digital applications have also been created to extend storylines for certain brands and to interact with certain analog products. While certain media-based entertainment benefit only one particular product category, others, specifically major motion pictures, can impact more than one product category. In 2012, the Company benefited from significant sales of MARVEL products related to two major motion picture releases, MARVEL’S THE AVENGERS and THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN. During 2013, the Company had product offerings based on theatrical releases of two major motion pictures based on MARVEL properties, IRON MAN 3 and THOR: THE DARK WORLD; however, sales of MARVEL products experienced a difficult comparison against the noteworthy success of the products sales based on the 2012 releases. In 2014, the Company anticipates product offerings based on planned theatrical releases of TRANSFORMERS: AGE OF EXTINCTION from Paramount Pictures as well as CAPTAIN AMERICA: THE WINTER SOLDIER and GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY from Marvel Studios and THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN 2 from Sony Pictures. The Company also anticipates sales of STAR WARS product offerings supported by new television programming, STAR WARS REBELS, developed by Lucasfilm Ltd. (“Lucasfilm”).  

We market our brands under the following primary product categories: (1) boys; (2) games; (3) girls; and (4) preschool toys. Descriptions of these product categories are as follows:  

Boys’ franchise brands included the NERF line of sports and action products and TRANSFORMERS action figures and accessories. Our boys’ category also includes SUPER SOAKER water blasters, G.I. JOE action figures and accessories and entertainment-based licensed products based on popular movie, television and comic book characters, such as BEYBLADE tops and accessories and MARVEL and STAR WARS toys and accessories. In 2013, the TRANSFORMERS brand was supported by an animated television series produced by Hasbro Studios which was distributed on a global basis. AVENGERS, BEYBLADE, SPIDER-MAN and STAR WARS products were each supported by animated television series produced and distributed by third parties in  

2  

Table of Contents 

 2013. TRANSFORMERS products will be supported by the expected major motion picture release of TRANSFORMERS: AGE OF EXTINCTION in June 2014. During 2013, MARVEL products, particularly IRON MAN and THOR products, were supported by the motion picture releases of IRON MAN 3 and THOR: THE DARK WORLD; and G.I. JOE products were supported by the motion picture release of G.I. JOE: RETALIATION. In 2014, MARVEL products will be supported by the planned major motion picture releases of CAPTAIN AMERICA: THE WINTER SOLDIER in April 2014, THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN 2 in May 2014 and GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY in August 2014. The STAR WARS brand is expected to be supported by new television programming, STAR WARS REBELS, developed by Lucasflim in late 2014. In addition to marketing and developing action figures and accessories for traditional play, the Company also develops and markets products designed for collectors, which has been a key component of the success of the TRANSFORMERS, STAR WARS and MARVEL brands.  

In July 2013, the Company announced that it had entered into amended agreements related to its MARVEL and STAR WARS licenses with Disney. The term of the MARVEL agreement was extended through 2020 and both the MARVEL and STAR WARS agreements include additional guaranteed royalties.  

Our games category includes an assortment of well known brands delivered on various platforms, including action battling, board, off-the-board, digital, trading card and role-playing games. Franchise brands included MAGIC: THE GATHERING and MONOPOLY, and other major game brands included BATTLESHIP, BOP-IT, CANDYLAND, CLUE, CONNECT 4, CRANIUM, DUEL MASTERS, ELEFUN & FRIENDS, GAME OF LIFE, JENGA, OPERATION, RISK, SORRY!, TRIVIAL PURSUIT, TWISTER, and YAHTZEE. In recent years, we have focused on investing more heavily in fewer initiatives and have centralized our games marketing and development. We continue to evolve our approach to gaming using consumer insights and offering gaming experiences relevant to consumer demand for face-to-face, off-the-board and other game play including the launch of new play patterns such as the introduction of action battling with TRANSFORMERS BOT SHOTS and ANGRY BIRDS STAR WARS. In 2013, the ANGRY BIRDS STAR WARS product line was extended to include ANGRY BIRDS TELEPODS which integrates analog and mobile gaming. Furthermore, and as mentioned above, in July 2013, we acquired a 70% majority stake in Backflip to expand our expertise and product offerings in the mobile gaming arena. Backflip’s game titles are distributed primarily through the Apple APP Store and GOOGLE Play Store and include DRAGONVALE, NINJUMP and PAPER TOSS. In 2014 and beyond, we plan to introduce additional game titles including PLUNDERNAUTS, DWARVEN DEN and NERF ZOMBIE STRIKE.  

In our girls’ category, we seek to provide a traditional and wholesome play experience. Girls’ franchise brands include LITTLEST PET SHOP, MY LITTLE PONY and NERF REBELLE. Other major girls’ toy brands include FURREAL FRIENDS, BABY ALIVE, EASY BAKE and FURBY. The LITTLEST PET SHOP and MY LITTLE PONY brands were supported and will continue to be supported by television programming produced by Hasbro Studios in 2013 and 2014. These brands are further supported by digital gaming with licensed partners. The MY LITTLE PONY brand was also re-imagined with the successful launch of MY LITTLE PONY EQUESTRIA GIRLS product line which was supported by the release of an animated movie in 2013 and an expected animated movie release in 2014. In 2013, we expanded our NERF brand into the girls’ category with the introduction of NERF REBELLE, a line of action performance products marketed to girls. We re-introduced a new FURBY product line in English-speaking markets in 2012 and in certain non-English speaking markets in 2013.  

Our preschool category encompasses a range of products for infants and preschoolers in various stages of development. Franchise brand offerings in the preschool category included PLAY-DOH and TRANSFORMERS. Other major preschool brands include PLAYSKOOL and products based on the SESAME STREET portfolio of characters. PLAY-DOH products include modeling compound and playsets. In 2014, we plan to introduce DOH VINCI, a new line of arts and crafts products. Our PLAYSKOOL brand includes well-known products such as MR. POTATO HEAD, SIT ‘N SPIN, ROCKTIVITY and GLOWORM, along with a line of infant toys including STEP START WALK’ N RIDE and ELEFUN BUSY BALL POPPER. Our preschool category also includes certain MARVEL, STAR WARS and TRANSFORMERS action figures and playsets marketed under PLAYSKOOL HEROES. Sales in our preschool category also benefit from several educational and interactive  

3  

Table of Contents 

 products under our licensing agreement with Sesame Workshop that provides us with the licensed rights to produce products based on the SESAME STREET portfolio of characters, including ELMO, GROVER and COOKIE MONSTER, among others.  

Segments  

Organizationally, our three principal segments are U.S. and Canada, International and Entertainment and Licensing. The U.S. and Canada and International segments engage in the marketing and selling of various toy and game products described above. Our toy and game products are primarily developed by a global development group while our global marketing function establishes brand direction and assists the segments in establishing certain local marketing programs. The costs of these groups are allocated to the principal segments. Our U.S. and Canada segment covers the United States and Canada while the International segment primarily includes Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin and South America. The Entertainment and Licensing segment engages in the out-licensing of our trademarks, characters and other brand and intellectual property rights to third parties for non-competing products and also conducts our movie, television and digital gaming entertainment operations, including the operations of Hasbro Studios and Backflip. Our Global Operations segment is responsible for arranging product manufacturing and sourcing for the U.S. and Canada and International segments. Financial information with respect to our segments and geographic areas is included in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

The Company’s strategy is focused around re-imagining, re-inventing, and re-igniting its existing brands, and imagining, inventing, and igniting new brands, globally through the development and marketing of innovative toy and game products, providing immersive entertainment experiences for our consumers, and expansion of our brands into other consumer products through broad licensing programs, including digital media and lifestyle products. The following is a discussion of each segment.  

U.S. and Canada  

This segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories in the United States and Canada. The U.S. and Canada segment’s strategy is based on promoting our brands through innovation and reinvention of toys and games. This is accomplished through introducing new products and initiatives driven by consumer and marketplace insights and leveraging opportunistic toy and game lines and licenses. This strategy leverages off of efforts to increase consumer awareness of the Company’s brands through entertainment experiences, including motion pictures and television programming. Major 2013 brands and products included BEYBLADE products, DUEL MASTERS, FURBY, FURREAL FRIENDS, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MARVEL products, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, PLAY-DOH, PLAYSKOOL, SESAME STREET products, STAR WARS products and TRANSFORMERS.  

International  

The International segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories to retailers and wholesalers in most countries in Europe, Latin and South America and the Asia Pacific region and through distributors in those countries where we have no direct presence. We have offices in more than 35 countries contributing to sales in more than 120 countries. In addition to growing brands and leveraging opportunistic toy lines and licenses, we seek to grow our international business by continuing to expand into emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin and South America. Emerging markets are an area of high priority for Hasbro as they offer greater opportunities for revenue growth. Key emerging markets include Russia, Brazil and the People’s Republic of China (“China”). In 2013 and 2012, net revenues in emerging markets grew 25% and 16%, respectively, and represented more than 10% of consolidated net revenues in each of these years. Key brands during 2013 included FURBY, FURREAL FRIENDS, LITTLEST PET SHOP, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MARVEL products, MONOPOLY, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, PLAY-DOH, PLAYSKOOL, STAR WARS products and TRANSFORMERS.  

Entertainment and Licensing  

Our Entertainment and Licensing segment includes our lifestyle licensing, digital gaming, television and movie entertainment operations. Our lifestyle licensing category seeks to promote our brands through the out- 

4  

Table of Contents 

 licensing of our intellectual properties to third parties for promotional and merchandising uses in businesses which do not compete directly with our own product offerings, such as apparel, publishing, home goods and electronics, or in certain situations, to utilize them for toy products where we consider the out-licensing of brands to be more effective.  

Our digital gaming business seeks to promote our brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to a number of partners who develop and offer digital games for play on mobile devices, personal computers, and video game consoles based on those brands. Our agreement with Electronic Arts Inc. (“EA”), grants exclusive worldwide rights to create mobile games based on a number of our intellectual properties, including MONOPOLY, SCRABBLE, YAHTZEE and GAME OF LIFE. We also have agreements with Activision for digital games based on the TRANSFORMERS brand, DeNA for mobile games based on the TRANSFORMERS brand, GameLoft for mobile games based on MY LITTLE PONY and LITTLEST PET SHOP brands, Jagex for an online TRANSFORMERS game for Western Markets, and Ubisoft for console games based on MONOPOLY, SCRABBLE, TRIVIAL PURSUIT and others. We also license our brands to third parties engaged in other forms of gaming, including Scientific Games Corporation. Furthermore, in July 2013, we acquired a 70% majority stake in Backflip, a mobile game developer whose mobile gaming product offerings include DRAGONVALE, NINJUMP and PAPER TOSS. In 2014 and beyond, Backflip intends to focus on its existing product lines and launching new games, including those based on Hasbro brands.  

To support our strategic objective of further developing our brands through television entertainment, we operate a wholly-owned television studio, Hasbro Studios, which produces television programming primarily based on our brands, which is distributed on a global basis. In addition, Hasbro Studios has a coordinated development process which aligns with our 50% interest in a joint venture with Discovery that operates Hub Network, a cable television network in the United States. Hub Network is dedicated to providing high-quality children’s and family entertainment.  

In addition to the above, we also seek to promote and leverage our brands through major motion pictures. In June 2014, TRANSFORMERS: AGE OF EXTINCTION, the fourth major motion picture based on the TRANSFORMERS brand, is scheduled to be released by Paramount Pictures. In 2013, G.I. JOE: RETALIATION, the second major motion picture based on the G.I. JOE brand, was released. In May 2012, BATTLESHIP was released by Universal Pictures.  

Major motion pictures and television programming based on our owned and controlled brands provide our consumers with the ability to experience these properties in a different format, which we believe can result in increased product sales, royalty revenues, and overall brand awareness. To a lesser extent, we can also earn revenue from our participation in the financial results of motion pictures and related DVD releases and through the distribution of television programming. Revenue from toy and game product sales is a component of the U.S. and Canada and International segments, while royalty revenues, including revenues earned from movies and television programming, is included in the Entertainment and Licensing segment.  

Global Operations  

In our Global Operations segment, we manufacture and source production of substantially all of our toy and game products. The Company owns and operates manufacturing facilities in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland which predominantly produce game products. Sourcing of our other production is done through unrelated third party manufacturers in various Far East countries, principally China, using a Hong Kong based wholly-owned subsidiary operation for quality control and order coordination purposes. See “Manufacturing and Importing” below for more details concerning overseas manufacturing and sourcing.  

Other Information  

To further extend our range of products in the various segments of our business, we sell a portion of our toy and game products to retailers on a direct import basis from the Far East. These sales are reflected in the revenue of the related segment where the customer is located.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Certain of our products are licensed to other companies for sale in selected countries where we do not otherwise have a direct business presence.  

Each of our four product categories, namely boys, games, girls and preschool, generate greater than 10% of our net revenues. For more information, including the amount of net revenues attributable to each of our four product categories, see note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Working Capital Requirements  

Our working capital needs are financed primarily through cash generated from operations and, when necessary, proceeds from short-term borrowings. Our borrowings generally reach peak levels during the third or fourth quarter of each year. This corresponds to the time of year when our receivables also generally reach peak levels as part of the production and shipment of product in preparation for the holiday season. The strategy of retailers has generally been to make a higher percentage of their purchases of toy and game products within or close to the fourth quarter holiday consumer buying season, which includes Christmas. We expect that retailers will continue to follow this strategy. Our historical revenue pattern is one in which the second half of the year is more significant to our overall business than the first half. In 2013, the second half of the year accounted for approximately 65% of full year revenues with the third and fourth quarters accounting for 34% and 31% of full year net revenues, respectively.  

The toy and game business is also characterized by customer order patterns which vary from year to year largely because of differences each year in the degree of consumer acceptance of product lines, product availability, marketing strategies and inventory policies of retailers, the dates of theatrical releases of major motion pictures for which we offer products, and changes in overall economic conditions. As a result, comparisons of our unshipped orders on any date with those at the same date in a prior year are not necessarily indicative of our sales for that year. Moreover, quick response inventory management practices result in fewer orders being placed significantly in advance of shipment and more orders being placed for immediate delivery. Retailers generally time their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. Although the Company may receive orders from customers in advance, it is a general industry practice that these orders are subject to amendment or cancellation by customers prior to shipment and, as such, the Company does not believe that these unshipped orders, at any given date, are indicative of future sales. The types of programs that we plan to employ to promote sales in 2014 are substantially the same as those we employed in 2013 and in prior years.  

Historically, we commit to the majority of our inventory production and advertising and marketing expenditures for a given year prior to the peak fourth quarter retail selling season. Our accounts receivable increase during the third and fourth quarter as customers increase their purchases to meet expected consumer demand in the holiday season. Due to the concentrated timeframe of this selling period, payments for these accounts receivable are generally not due until later in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter of the subsequent year. The timing difference between expenses paid and revenues collected sometimes makes it necessary for us to borrow varying amounts during the year. During 2013, we utilized cash from our operations and borrowings under our commercial paper program and uncommitted lines of credit to meet our cash flow requirements.  

Royalties and Product Development  

Our success is dependent on continuous innovation in our entertainment offerings, including both the continuing development of new brands and products and the redesign of existing products to drive consumer interest and market acceptance. Our toy and game products are developed by a global development group and the costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, we incurred expenses of $207,591, $201,197 and $197,638, respectively, on activities relating to the development, design and engineering of new products and their packaging (including products brought to us by independent designers) and on the improvement or modification of ongoing products. Much of this work is performed by our internal staff of designers, artists, model makers and engineers.  

6  

Table of Contents 

In addition to the design and development work performed by our own staff, we deal with a number of independent toy and game designers for whose designs and ideas we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Rights to such designs and ideas, when acquired by us, are usually exclusive and the agreements require us to pay the designer a royalty on our net sales of the item. These designer royalty agreements, in some cases, also provide for advance royalties and minimum guarantees.  

We also produce a number of toys and games under trademarks and copyrights utilizing the names or likenesses of characters from movies, television shows and other entertainment media, for whose rights we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Licensing fees for these rights are generally paid as a royalty on our net sales of the item. Licenses for the use of characters are generally exclusive for specific products or product lines in specified territories. In many instances, advance royalties and minimum guarantees are required by these license agreements.  

In 2013, 2012 and 2011, we incurred $338,919, $302,066 and $339,217, respectively, of royalty expense. In 2013, royalty expense included $63,801 related to the settlement of an arbitration award for a dispute between the Company and an inventor as well as the amendment of its license agreement with Zynga. Our royalty expense in any given year may also vary depending upon the timing of movie releases and other entertainment media.  

Marketing and Sales  

As we are focused on re-imagining, re-inventing and re-igniting our many brands and imagining, inventing and igniting new brands, we have a global marketing function which establishes brand direction and messaging, as well as assists the selling entities in establishing certain local marketing programs. The costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. We also maintain sales and marketing functions in our selling entities which are responsible for local market activities and execution. Our products are sold globally to a broad spectrum of customers, including wholesalers, distributors, chain stores, discount stores, mail order houses, catalog stores, department stores and other traditional retailers, large and small, as well as internet-based “e-tailers.” Our own sales forces account for the majority of sales of our products. Remaining sales are generated by independent distributors who sell our products, for the most part, in areas of the world where we do not otherwise maintain a direct presence. While we have thousands of customers, the majority of our sales are to large chain stores, distributors and wholesalers. While this concentration of customers provides us with certain benefits, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this also creates additional risks to our business associated with a major customer having financial difficulties or reducing its business with us. In addition, customer concentration may decrease the prices we are able to obtain for some of our products and reduce the number of products we would otherwise be able to bring to market. During 2013, net revenues from our three largest customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Target Corporation represented 16%, 10% and 9%, respectively, of consolidated net revenues, and sales to our top five customers, including Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Target, accounted for approximately 39% of our consolidated net revenues. In the U.S. and Canada segment, approximately 61% of our net revenues were derived from these top three customers.  

We advertise many of our toy and game products extensively on television. In addition, we engage in digital marketing and advertising for our brands. Generally our advertising highlights selected items in our various product groups in a manner designed to promote the sale of not only the selected item, but also other items we offer in those product groups as well. Hasbro Studios produces television entertainment based primarily on our brands which appears on Hub Network in the U.S., other major networks internationally and on various other digital platforms, such as Netflix and iTunes. We introduce many of our new products to major customers during the year prior to the year of introduction of such products for retail sale. In addition, we showcase certain of our new products in New York City at the time of the American International Toy Fair in February, as well as at other international toy shows. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, we incurred $398,098, $422,239 and $413,951, respectively, in expense related to advertising and promotion programs. Certain entertainment-based products, such as products based on major motion pictures, generally do not require the same level of advertising that we spend on other non-entertainment based products.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Manufacturing and Importing  

During 2013 substantially all of our products were manufactured in third party facilities in the Far East, primarily China, as well as in our two owned facilities located in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland.  

Most of our products are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic, paper and cardboard, although certain products also make use of electronic components. All of these materials are readily available but may be subject to significant fluctuations in price. There are certain chemicals (including phthalates and BPA) that national, state and local governments have restricted or are seeking to restrict or limit the use of; however, we do not believe these restrictions have or will materially impact our business. We generally enter into agreements with suppliers at the beginning of a fiscal year that establish prices for that year. However, significant volatility in the prices of any of these materials may require renegotiation with our suppliers during the year. Our manufacturing processes and those of our vendors include injection molding, blow molding, spray painting, printing, box making and assembly. The countries of the Far East, and particularly China, constitute the largest manufacturing center of toys in the world and the substantial majority of our toy products are manufactured in China. The 1996 implementation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade reduced or eliminated customs duties on many of the products imported by us. We purchase most of our raw materials and component parts used in our owned manufacturing facilities from suppliers in the United States and certain other countries.  

We believe that the manufacturing capacity of our third party manufacturers, together with our own facilities, as well as the supply of components, accessories and completed products which we purchase from unaffiliated manufacturers, are adequate to meet the anticipated demand in 2014 for our products. Our reliance on designated external sources of manufacturing could be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply for our products, should such changes be necessary or desirable. However, if we were to be prevented from obtaining products from a substantial number of our current Far East suppliers due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations and our ability to obtain products would be severely disrupted while alternative sources of product were secured and production shifted to those new sources. The imposition of trade sanctions by the United States or the European Union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of “normal trade relations” status with, China, or other factors which increase the cost of manufacturing in China, such as higher Chinese labor costs or an appreciation in the Chinese Yuan, could significantly disrupt our operations and/or significantly increase the cost of the products which are manufactured in China and imported into other markets.  

Competition  

We are a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and games and other entertainment offerings, but our business is highly competitive. We compete with several large toy and game companies in our product categories, as well as many smaller United States and international toy and game designers, manufacturers and marketers. We also compete with companies that offer branded entertainment focused on children and their families. Competition is based primarily on meeting consumer entertainment preferences and on the quality and play value of our products. To a lesser extent, competition is also based on product pricing. In entertainment, Hasbro Studios and Hub Network compete with other children’s television networks and entertainment producers, such as Nickelodeon, Cartoon Network and Disney Channel, for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution.  

In addition to contending with competition from other toy and game and branded-play entertainment companies, we contend with the phenomenon that children are increasingly sophisticated and have been moving away from traditional toys and games at a younger age. Thereby, the variety of product and entertainment offerings available for children has expanded and product lifecycles have shrunk as children move on to more sophisticated offerings at younger ages. We refer to this as “children getting older younger.” As a result, our products not only compete with those offerings produced by other toy and game manufacturers, we also compete, particularly in meeting the demands of older children, with entertainment offerings of many technology companies, such as makers of tablets, mobile devices, video games and other consumer electronic products.  

8  

Table of Contents 

The volatility in consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment and low barriers to entry as well as the emergence of new technologies continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups to develop products that compete with our entertainment and toy and game offerings.  

Employees  

At December 29, 2013, we employed approximately 5,000 persons worldwide, approximately 2,500 of whom were located in the United States.  

Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents  

We seek to protect our products, for the most part, and in as many countries as practical, through registered trademarks, copyrights and patents to the extent that such protection is available, cost effective, and meaningful. The loss of such rights concerning any particular product is unlikely to result in significant harm to our business, although the loss of such protection for a number of significant items might have such an effect.  

Government Regulation  

Our toy and game products sold in the United States are subject to the provisions of The Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, (as amended, the “CPSA”), The Federal Hazardous Substances Act (the “FHSA”), The Flammable Fabrics Act (the “FFA”), and the regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, a few of our products, such as the food mixes for our EASY-BAKE ovens, are also subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration.  

The CPSA empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”) to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including the formulation and implementation of regulations and uniform safety standards. The CPSC has the authority to seek to declare a product “a banned hazardous substance” under the CPSA and to ban it from commerce. The CPSC can file an action to seize and condemn an “imminently hazardous consumer product” under the CPSA and may also order equitable remedies such as recall, replacement, repair or refund for the product. The FHSA provides for the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles that are banned.  

Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in many international markets including Canada, Australia and Europe. We utilize independent third party laboratories that employ testing and other procedures intended to maintain compliance with the CPSA, the FHSA, the FFA, other applicable domestic and international product standards, and our own standards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that our products are or will be hazard free. Any material product recall or other safety issue impacting our product could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, depending on the product and scope of the recall, and could negatively affect sales of our other products as well.  

The Children’s Television Act of 1990 and the rules promulgated thereunder by the United States Federal Communications Commission, the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, as well as the laws of certain other countries, also place limitations on television commercials during children’s programming and on advertising in other forms to children, and on the collection of information from children under the age of thirteen subject to the provisions of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act.  

We maintain programs to comply with various United States federal, state, local and international requirements relating to the environment, health, safety and other matters.  

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas  

The information required by this item is included in note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report and is incorporated herein by reference.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The following persons are the executive officers of the Company. Such executive officers are elected annually. The position(s) and office(s) listed below are the principal position(s) and office(s) held by such persons with the Company. The persons listed below generally also serve as officers and directors of certain of the Company’s various subsidiaries at the request and convenience of the Company.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Prior thereto, Chief Operating Officer from 2006 to 2008.  

 (2) Prior thereto, Chief Operating Officer from 2009 to 2013; prior thereto, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer from 2008 to 2009.  

 (3) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2013; prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Head of Corporate Finance from 2008 to 2009.  

 (4) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Global Chief Development Officer from 2008 to 2013; prior thereto, Chief Marketing Officer, U.S. Toy Group from 2004 to 2008.  

 (5) Prior thereto, Vice President, Employment, Litigation and Compliance since 2006.  

 (6) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer from 2008 to 2013.  

 (7) Prior thereto, President, North America from 2012 to 2013; prior thereto; President, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets from 2006 to 2012.  

Availability of Information  

Our internet address is http://www.hasbro.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available free of charge on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.