ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with “Selected Financial Data” and TD Group’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The following discussion may contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under the heading entitled “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this report. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future performance suggested below.  

Overview  

We believe we are a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components for use on nearly all commercial and military aircraft in service today. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products we offer to our customers. Some of our more significant product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to end-users in the aerospace industry, include mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators, NiCad batteries and chargers, engineered latching and locking devices, rods and locking devices, engineered connectors and elastomers, cockpit security components and systems, specialized cockpit displays, aircraft audio systems, specialized lavatory components, seatbelts and safety restraints, engineered interior surfaces and lighting and control technology. Each of these product offerings is composed of many individual products that are typically customized to meet the needs of a particular aircraft platform or customer.  

Long-term Sustainable Growth  

For fiscal year 2013, we generated net sales of $1,924.4 million, gross profit of $1,049.6 million or 54.5% of sales, and net income of $302.8 million. We believe we have achieved steady, long-term growth in sales and improvements in operating performance since our formation in 1993 due to our competitive strengths and through execution of our value-driven operating strategy. More specifically, focusing our businesses on our value-driven operating strategy of obtaining profitable new business, carefully controlling the cost structure and pricing our highly engineered value-added products to fairly reflect the value we provide and the resources required to do so has historically resulted in improvements in gross profit and income from operations over the long term.  

Our selective acquisition strategy has also contributed to the growth of our business. The integration of certain acquisitions into our existing businesses combined with implementing our proven operating strategy has historically resulted in improvements of the financial performance of the acquired business.  

Our key competitive strengths and the elements of our business strategy are set forth in more detail below.  

We believe our key competitive strengths include:  

Large and Growing Installed Product Base with Aftermarket Revenue Stream. We provide components to a large and growing installed base of aircraft to which we supply aftermarket products. We estimate that our products are installed on approximately 90,000 commercial transport, regional transport, military and general aviation fixed wing turbine aircraft and rotary wing aircraft.  

Diversified Revenue Base. We believe that our diversified revenue base reduces our dependence on any particular product, platform or market channel and has been a significant factor in maintaining our financial performance. Our products are installed on almost all of the major commercial aircraft platforms now in production. We expect to continue to develop new products for military and commercial applications.  

27  

Table of Contents 

Significant Barriers to Entry. We believe that the niche nature of our markets, the industry’s stringent regulatory and certification requirements, the large number of products that we sell and the investments necessary to develop and certify products create barriers to entry for potential competitors.  

Our business strategy is made up of two key elements: (1) a value-driven operating strategy focused around our three core value drivers and (2) a selective acquisition strategy.  

Value-Driven Operating Strategy. Our three core value drivers are:  

   •    Obtaining Profitable New Business. We attempt to obtain profitable new business by using our technical expertise and application skill and our detailed knowledge of our customer base and the individual niche markets in which we operate. We have regularly been successful in identifying and developing both aftermarket and OEM products to drive our growth.  

   •    Improving Our Cost Structure. We are committed to maintaining and continuously improving our lean cost structure through detailed attention to the cost of each of the products that we offer and our organizational structure, with a focus on reducing the cost of each.  

   •    Providing Highly Engineered Value-Added Products to Customers. We focus on the engineering, manufacturing and marketing of a broad range of highly engineered niche products that we believe provide value to our customers. We believe we have been consistently successful in communicating to our customers the value of our products. This has generally enabled us to price our products to fairly reflect the value we provide and the resources required to do so.  

Selective Acquisition Strategy. We selectively pursue the acquisition of proprietary aerospace component businesses when we see an opportunity to create value through the application of our three core value-driven operating strategies. The aerospace industry, in particular, remains highly fragmented, with many of the companies in the industry being small private businesses or small non-core operations of larger businesses. We have significant experience among our management team in executing acquisitions and integrating acquired businesses into our company and culture. As of the date of this report, we have successfully acquired 46 businesses and/or product lines since our formation in 1993. Many of these acquisitions have been integrated into an existing TransDigm production facility, which enables a higher production capacity utilization, which in turn improves gross profit levels due to the ability to spread the fixed manufacturing overhead costs over higher production volume.  

Certain Acquisitions and Divestitures  

Whippany Actuation Systems, LLC  

On June 28, 2013, Whippany Actuation Systems, LLC, a newly formed subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., acquired assets from GE Aviation’s Electromechanical Actuation Division (“Whippany Actuation”) for approximately $149.5 million in cash, subject to adjustments based on the level of working capital as of the closing date of the acquisition. Whippany Actuation manufactures proprietary, highly engineered aerospace electromechanical motion control subsystems for civil and military applications, with product offerings including control electronics, motors, high power mechanical transmissions and actuators. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. Whippany is included in TransDigm’s Power & Control segment. The Company is in the process of obtaining information to value certain tangible and intangible assets of Whippany Actuation, and therefore the consolidated financial statements at September 30, 2013 reflect a preliminary purchase price allocation for the business.  

Arkwin Industries, Inc.  

On June 5, 2013, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of Arkwin Industries, Inc. (“Arkwin”), for approximately $285.7 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.2 received in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. Arkwin manufactures proprietary, highly engineered aerospace  

28  

Table of Contents 

 hydraulic and fuel system components for commercial and military aircraft, helicopters and other specialty applications. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. Arkwin is included in TransDigm’s Power & Control segment. The Company is in the process of obtaining information to value certain tangible and intangible assets of Arkwin, and therefore the consolidated financial statements at September 30, 2013 reflect a preliminary purchase price allocation for the business.  

Aerosonic, LLC  

On June 5, 2013, Buccaneer Acquisition Sub Inc., a newly formed subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., completed the tender offer of a majority of the outstanding stock of Aerosonic Corporation (“Aerosonic”). Buccaneer Acquisition Sub Inc. was subsequently merged into Aerosonic on June 10, 2013; in connection therewith, all outstanding shares of Aerosonic were cancelled and Aerosonic became a wholly owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc. The aggregate price paid in the tender offer and merger was approximately $39.8 million in cash. Aerosonic designs and manufactures proprietary, highly engineered mechanical and digital altimeters, airspeed indicators, rate of climb indicators, microprocessor controlled air data test sets, angle of attack stall warning systems, integrated air data sensors and other aircraft sensors, monitoring systems and flight instrumentation for use on commercial and military aircraft. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. Aerosonic is included in TransDigm’s Airframe segment. The Company is in the process of obtaining information to value certain tangible and intangible assets of Aerosonic, and therefore the consolidated financial statements at September 30, 2013 reflect a preliminary purchase price allocation for the business.  

Aero-Instruments Co., LLC  

On September 17, 2012, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests in Aero-Instruments Co., LLC (“Aero-Instruments”), for approximately $34.6 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.1 million received in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Aero-Instruments designs and manufactures highly engineered air data sensors including pitot probes, pitot-static probes, static pressure ports, angle of attack, temperature sensors and flight test equipment for use primarily in the business jet and helicopter markets. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. Aero-Instruments has since been merged into AeroControlex Group and is included in TransDigm’s Power & Control segment.  

AmSafe Global Holdings, Inc.  

On February 15, 2012, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of AmSafe Global Holdings, Inc. (“AmSafe”), for approximately $749.7 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.5 million paid in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. AmSafe is a leading supplier of innovative, highly engineered and proprietary safety and restraint equipment used primarily in the global aerospace industry. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The majority of AmSafe product lines are included in TransDigm’s Airframe segment, and the remaining product lines are included in the Non-aviation segment. The distribution business acquired as part of AmSafe was sold on August 16, 2012 for approximately $17.8 million in cash, which includes a working capital adjustment of $0.1 million received in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The equity investment in C-Safe LLC acquired as part of AmSafe was sold in October 2012 for approximately $16.4 million, which consisted of $5.0 million in cash at closing and an $11.4 million short-term note receivable, which was subsequently received in installments during fiscal 2013.  

Harco Laboratories, Incorporated  

On December 9, 2011, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of Harco Laboratories, Incorporated (“Harco”), for approximately $83.3 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.4 million paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2012. Harco designs and manufactures highly engineered thermocouples, sensors, engine cable assemblies and related products for commercial aircraft. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. Harco is included in TransDigm’s Power & Control segment.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Schneller Holdings LLC  

On August 31, 2011, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests in Schneller Holdings LLC (“Schneller”) for approximately $288.6 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $1.0 million paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Schneller designs and manufactures proprietary, highly engineered laminates, thermoplastics, and non-textile flooring for use primarily on side walls, lavatories, galleys, bulkheads and cabin floors for commercial aircraft. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. Schneller is included in TransDigm’s Airframe segment.  

Talley Actuation  

On December 31, 2010, AeroControlex Group, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc., acquired the actuation business of Telair International Inc. (“Talley Actuation”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Teleflex Incorporated, for approximately $93.6 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.3 million received in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Talley Actuation manufactures proprietary, highly engineered electro-mechanical products and other components for commercial and military aircraft. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. Talley Actuation is included in TransDigm’s Power & Control segment.  

McKechnie Aerospace Holdings, Inc.  

On December 6, 2010, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of McKechnie Aerospace Holdings Inc. (“McKechnie Aerospace”), for approximately $1.27 billion in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.3 million paid in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. McKechnie Aerospace, through its subsidiaries, is a leading global designer, producer and supplier of aerospace components, assemblies and subsystems for commercial aircraft, regional/business jets, military fixed wing and rotorcraft. Some of the businesses acquired as part of McKechnie Aerospace have since been divested (see below). The remaining products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. Product lines of McKechnie Aerospace are included in both TransDigm’s Power & Control and Airframe segments.  

Aero Quality Sales Divestiture  

On April 7, 2011, the Company completed the divestiture of Aero Quality Sales (“AQS”) to Satair A/S for approximately $31.8 million in cash, which includes a $1.8 million working capital adjustment received in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. AQS, which was acquired as part of the McKechnie Aerospace acquisition, is a distributor and service center of aircraft batteries and battery support equipment. The Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, W. Nicholas Howley was a director of Satair A/S from 2006 through October 2011. Mr. Howley disclosed his relationship to Satair A/S to the Company’s board of directors and abstained from the related vote.  

Fastener Business Divestiture  

On March 9, 2011, the Company completed the divestiture of its fastener business for approximately $239.6 million in cash. This business, which was acquired as part of the McKechnie Aerospace acquisition, is made up of Valley-Todeco, Inc. and Linread Ltd. The business designs and manufactures fasteners, fastening systems and bearings for commercial, military and general aviation aircraft.  

30  

Table of Contents 

EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined  

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) EBITDA represents earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA As Defined represents EBITDA plus, as applicable for each relevant period, certain adjustments as set forth in the reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information and limitations regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.  

 (2) Represents accounting adjustments to inventory associated with acquisitions of businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was sold.  

 (3) Represents costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into TD Group’s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related costs.  

 (4) Represents transaction-related costs comprising deal fees; legal, financial and tax due diligence expenses; and valuation costs that are required to be expensed as incurred.  

 (5) Represents the reversal of the earn-out liability related to the Dukes Aerospace acquisition based on lower growth projections relative to the required growth targets of the four-year earn-out arrangement.  

 (6) Represents the compensation expense recognized by TD Group under our stock option plans.  

 (7) Represents debt issue costs expensed in conjunction with the refinancing of our 2010 Credit Facility and 2011 Credit Facility in February 2013.  

31  

Table of Contents 

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Represents interest expense excluding the amortization of debt issue costs and note premium and discount.  

 (2) Represents the compensation expense recognized by TD Group under our stock option plans.  

 (3) Represents debt issue costs expensed in conjunction with the refinancing of our 2010 Credit Facility and 2011 Credit Facility in February 2013.  

 (4) EBITDA represents earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA As Defined represents EBITDA plus, as applicable for each relevant period, certain adjustments as set forth in the reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information and limitations regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.  

 (5) Represents accounting adjustments to inventory associated with acquisitions of businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was sold.  

 (6) Represents costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into TD Group’s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related costs.  

 (7) Represents transaction-related costs comprising deal fees; legal, financial and tax due diligence expenses; and valuation costs that are required to be expensed as incurred.  

 (8) Represents the reversal of the earn-out liability related to the Dukes Aerospace acquisition based on lower growth projections relative to the required growth targets of the four-year earn-out arrangement.  

Trend Information  

We predominantly serve customers in the commercial, regional, business jet and general aviation aftermarket, which accounts for approximately 39% of total sales; the commercial aerospace OEM market, comprising large commercial transport manufacturers and regional and business jet manufacturers, which accounts for approximately 30% of total sales; and the defense market, which accounts for approximately 25% of total sales. Non-aerospace sales comprise approximately 6% of our total sales.  

32  

Table of Contents 

The commercial aerospace industry, including the aftermarket and OEM market, is impacted by the health of the global economy and geo-political events around the world. The commercial aerospace industry had shown strength with increases in revenue passenger miles, or RPMs, between 2003 and 2008, as well as increases in OEM production and backlog. However, in 2009, the global economic downturn negatively impacted the commercial aerospace industry causing RPMs to decline slightly. This market sector began to rebound in 2010 and positive growth has continued thru 2013 with increases in RPMs, as well as the growth in the large commercial OEM sector (aircraft with 100 or more seats) with order announcements by The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S. leading to planned increases in production. The 2014 leading indicators and industry consensus suggest a continuation of current trends in the commercial transport market sector supported by continued RPM growth and increases in production at the OEM level.  

The defense aerospace market is dependent on government budget constraints, the timing of orders and the extent of global conflicts. It is not necessarily affected by general economic conditions that affect the commercial aerospace industry.  

Our presence in both the commercial aerospace and military sectors of the aerospace industry may mitigate the impact on our business of any specific industry risk. We service a diversified customer base in the commercial and military aerospace industry, and we provide components to a diverse installed base of aircraft, which mitigates our exposure to any individual airframe platform. At times, declines in sales in one channel have been offset by increased sales in another. However, due to differences between the profitability of our products sold to OEM and aftermarket customers, variation in product mix can cause variation in gross margin.  

There are many short-term factors (including inventory corrections, unannounced changes in order patterns, strikes and mergers and acquisitions) that can cause short-term disruptions in our quarterly shipment patterns as compared to previous quarters and the same periods in prior years. As such, it can be difficult to determine longer-term trends in our business based on quarterly comparisons. To normalize for short-term fluctuations, we tend to look at our performance over several quarters or years of activity rather than discrete short-term periods.  

There are also fluctuations in OEM and aftermarket ordering and delivery requests from quarter-to-quarter, as well as variations in product mix from quarter-to-quarter, that may cause positive or negative variations in gross profit margins since commercial aftermarket sales have historically produced a higher gross margin than sales to commercial OEMs. Again, in many instances these are timing events between quarters and must be balanced with macro aerospace industry indicators.  

Commercial Aftermarket  

The key growth factors in the commercial aftermarket include worldwide RPMs and the size and activity level of the worldwide fleet of aircraft. After a decline in RPMs in 2009, worldwide RPMs returned to growth between 2010 and 2013 and current industry consensus indicates that positive RPM growth will continue in 2014.  

Commercial OEM Market  

The commercial transport market sector continued to grow during 2013. Our commercial transport OEM shipments and revenues generally run ahead of the Boeing and Airbus airframe delivery schedules. As a result and consistent with prior years, our fiscal 2014 shipments will be a function of, among other things, the estimated 2014 and 2015 commercial airframe production rates. We are now experiencing increased sales in the large commercial OEM sector (aircraft with 100 or more seats) driven by an increase in production by The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S tied to previous order announcements. Industry consensus indicates this production increase will continue in 2014 and 2015, though the growth may moderate.  

33  

Table of Contents 

The business jet OEM market significantly declined between 2008 and 2010, impacted by the slowdown in economic growth, corporate profits, commodity prices and stock market returns across the world. However, the business jet OEM market started to modestly recover in 2011 but has remained sluggish through 2013 and could show modest growth in 2014.  

Defense  

Our military business fluctuates from year to year, and is dependent, to a degree, on government budget constraints, the timing of orders and the extent of global conflicts. In recent years, defense spending has reached historic highs, due in part to the military engagements in Afghanistan and Iraq and the war on terrorism. We anticipate that military related sales of our types of products could start to decline modestly in future years over the current high levels.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, which often requires the judgment of management in the selection and application of certain accounting principles and methods. Management believes that the quality and reasonableness of our most critical policies enable the fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. However, investors are cautioned that the sensitivity of financial statements to these methods, assumptions and estimates could create materially different results under different conditions or using different assumptions.  

We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. These critical policies were determined by considering accounting policies that involve the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments. Our most critical accounting policies are as follows:  

Revenue Recognition and Related Allowances: Revenue is recognized from the sale of products when title and risk of loss passes to the customer, which is generally at the time of shipment. Substantially all product sales are made pursuant to firm, fixed-price purchase orders received from customers. Collectability of amounts recorded as revenue is reasonably assured at the time of sale. Provisions for returns, uncollectible accounts and the cost of repairs under contract warranty provisions are provided for in the same period as the related revenues are recorded and are principally based on historical results modified, as appropriate, by the most current information available. We have a history of making reasonably dependable estimates of such allowances; however, due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual results may vary from the estimates and the differences could be material.  

Management estimates the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the aging of the accounts receivable and customer creditworthiness. The allowance also incorporates a provision for the estimated impact of disputes with customers. Management’s estimate of the allowance amounts that are necessary includes amounts for specifically identified credit losses and estimated credit losses based on historical information. The determination of the amount of the allowance for doubtful accounts is subject to significant levels of judgment and estimation by management. Depending on the resolution of potential credit and other collection issues, or if the financial condition of any of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate and their ability to make required payments were to become impaired, increases in these allowances may be required. Historically, changes in estimates in the allowance for doubtful accounts have not been significant.  

The Company provides limited warranties in connection with the sale of its products. The warranty period for products sold, which varies among the Company’s operations, is typically less than two years but can be in the range from 90 days to six years. In addition, certain contracts with distributors contain right of return provisions. The Company accrues for estimated returns and warranty claims based on knowledge of product performance issues and based on excess inventories provided by its customers and industry sources. The  

34  

Table of Contents 

 Company also provides a general amount based on historical trends. To the extent total warranty claims differ from estimates, adjustments may be necessary. Historically, actual product returns and warranty claims have not differed materially from the estimates originally established.  

Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost of inventories is determined by the average cost and the first-in, first-out (FIFO) methods for all locations except CEF Industries, LLC, which determines the cost of inventories using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. Because the Company sells products that are installed on airframes that can be in-service for 30 or more years, it must keep a supply of such products on hand while the airframes are in use. Where management estimated that the current market value was below cost or determined that future demand was lower than current inventory levels, based on historical experience, current and projected market demand, current and projected volume trends and other relevant current and projected factors associated with the current economic conditions, a reduction in inventory cost to estimated net realizable value was made by recording a provision included in cost of sales. Although management believes that the Company’s estimates of excess and obsolete inventory are reasonable, actual results may differ materially from the estimates and additional provisions may be required in the future. In addition, in accordance with industry practice, all inventories are classified as current assets as all inventories are available and necessary to support current sales, even though a portion of the inventories may not be sold within one year. Historically, changes in estimates in the net realizable value of inventories have not been significant.  

Intangible Assets: Mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method and have resulted in significant amounts of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Fair value adjustments to the Company’s assets and liabilities are recognized and the results of operations of the acquired business are included in our consolidated financial statements from the effective date of the merger or acquisition. We generally use third-party appraisals to assist us in determining the estimated fair value of the intangible assets.  

Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognized if the benefit of the intangible asset is obtained through contractual or other legal rights, or if the intangible asset can be sold, transferred, licensed or exchanged, regardless of the Company’s intent to do so. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at their estimated fair value on the date of acquisition and are reviewed at least annually for impairment based on cash flow projections and fair value estimates.  

GAAP requires that the annual, and any interim, impairment assessment be performed at the reporting unit level. The reporting unit level is one level below an operating segment. Substantially all goodwill was determined and recognized for each reporting unit pursuant to the accounting for the merger or acquisition as of the date of each transaction. With respect to acquisitions integrated into an existing reporting unit, any acquired goodwill is combined with the goodwill of the reporting unit.  

At the time of goodwill impairment testing, management determines the estimated fair value through the use of a discounted cash flow valuation model incorporating discount rates commensurate with the risks involved for each reporting unit. If the calculated estimated fair value is less than the current carrying value, impairment of goodwill of the reporting unit may exist. The use of a discounted cash flow valuation model to determine estimated fair value is common practice in impairment testing. The key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow valuation model for impairment testing includes discount rates, growth rates, cash flow projections and terminal value rates. Discount rates are set by using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (“WACC”) methodology. The WACC methodology considers market and industry data as well as company specific risk factors for each reporting unit in determining the appropriate discount rates to be used. The discount rate utilized for each reporting unit is indicative of the return an investor would expect to receive for investing in such a business.  

Management, considering industry and company-specific historical and projected data, develops growth rates, sales projections and cash flow projections for each reporting unit. Terminal value rate determination follows common methodology of capturing the present value of perpetual cash flow estimates beyond the last  

35  

Table of Contents 

 projected period assuming a constant WACC and low long-term growth rates. As an indicator that each reporting unit has been valued appropriately through the use of the discounted cash flow valuation model, the aggregate of all reporting units estimated fair value is reconciled to the total market capitalization of the Company.  

The Company had 24 reporting units with goodwill as of the first day of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, the date of the last annual impairment test. The estimated fair values of each of the reporting units was substantially in excess of their respective carrying values (by 40 percent or more), and therefore no goodwill impairment was recorded. The Company performed a sensitivity analysis on the discount rate, which is a significant assumption in the calculation of fair values. With a one percentage point increase in the discount rate, the reporting units would continue to have fair values in excess of their respective carrying values.  

Management tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at the asset level, as determined by appropriate asset valuation at the time of acquisition. The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets consists of a comparison between the estimated fair values and carrying values. If the carrying amounts of intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives exceed their estimated fair values, an impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to the difference. Management utilizes the royalty savings valuation method to determine the estimated fair value for each indefinite-lived intangible asset. In this method, management estimates the royalty savings arising from the ownership of the intangible asset. The key assumptions used in estimating the royalty savings for impairment testing include discount rates, royalty rates, growth rates, sales projections and terminal value rates. Discount rates used are similar to the rates developed by the WACC methodology considering any differences in company-specific risk factors between reporting units and the indefinite-lived intangible assets. Royalty rates are established by management with the advice of valuation experts and periodically substantiated by valuation experts. Management, considering industry and company-specific historical and projected data, develops growth rates and sales projections for each significant intangible asset. Terminal value rate determination follows common methodology of capturing the present value of perpetual sales estimates beyond the last projected period assuming a constant WACC and low long-term growth rates.  

The discounted cash flow and royalty savings valuation methodologies require management to make certain assumptions based upon information available at the time the valuations are performed. Actual results could differ from these assumptions. Management believes the assumptions used are reflective of what a market participant would have used in calculating fair value considering the current economic conditions.  

Stock Options: The Company accounts for the cost of its stock options in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of compensation expense under the stock option plan to be based on the estimated fair value of the awards under the plan on the grant dates and amortizes the expense over the vesting periods of the options. The Company estimates the fair value of all share-based payments using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model which requires management to make certain assumptions. Management continuously reviews the following assumptions: risk-free interest rates, expected life of options, expected volatility of stock and expected dividend yield of stock. An increase or decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside management’s control could have an impact on the Company’s results of operations.  

Environmental Matters: The Company is involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of its currently and formerly owned sites and at third-party sites. The Company accrues for environmental-related activities for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and for which costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. All accrued amounts were recorded on an undiscounted basis. Environmental-related expenses include costs of investigation and remediation and fees paid to outside engineering, actuarial, consulting and law firms. Due to uncertainties surrounding environmental investigations and remediation activities, the Company’s ultimate liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued.  

Income Taxes: The Company estimates income taxes in each jurisdiction in which it operates. This involves estimating taxable earnings, specific taxable and deductible items, the likelihood of generating sufficient future  

36  

Table of Contents 

 taxable income to utilize deferred tax assets and possible exposures related to future tax audits. To the extent these estimates change, adjustments to deferred and accrued income taxes are made in the period in which the changes occur. Historically, such adjustments have not been significant.  

Results of Operations  

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain operating data of the Company, including presentation of the amounts as a percentage of net sales (amounts in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2012  

Total Company  

Net Sales. Net organic sales, acquisition sales and sales of the AmSafe distribution business, which was acquired as part of AmSafe on February 15, 2012 and sold on August 16, 2012, and the related dollar and percentage changes for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Acquisition sales represent sales of acquired businesses for the period up to one year subsequent to their acquisition dates. The amount of acquisition sales shown in the table above was mainly attributable to the acquisition of Whippany Actuation, Arkwin and Aerosonic in fiscal 2013 and Aero-Instruments, AmSafe and Harco in fiscal 2012.  

Organic sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 include a favorable commercial OEM retroactive contract pricing adjustment of approximately $2 million. Organic sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 include favorable commercial OEM retroactive contract pricing adjustments of approximately $13 million and a favorable commercial aftermarket retroactive contract pricing adjustment of approximately $6 million.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Excluding the impact of the retroactive contract pricing adjustments and the AmSafe distribution sales indicated above, commercial OEM sales increased $51.4 million, or an increase of 10.5%, commercial aftermarket sales increased $3.3 million, or an increase of 0.5%, and defense sales increased $33.1 million, or an increase of 8.3%, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. The commercial aftermarket comparable sales, particularly in the second half of fiscal 2013 compared to the second half of fiscal 2012, were negatively impacted by non-market items associated with changing past business practices of previously-acquired businesses, changes in distributors and related inventory fluctuations. We believe that the underlying demand in the commercial aftermarket channel began to trend up more positively during the second half of the fiscal year.  

Cost of Sales and Gross Profit. Cost of sales increased by $120.3 million, or 16.0%, to $874.8 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 compared to $754.5 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. Cost of sales and the related percentage of total sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in the dollar amount of cost of sales during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 was primarily due to increased volume associated with the sales from acquisitions and organic sales growth and higher stock compensation expense related to the accelerated vesting (discussed further below) partially offset by lower acquisition-related costs as shown in the table above.  

Gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased by 1.1 percentage points to 54.5% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 from 55.6% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. The dollar amount of gross profit increased by $103.8 million, or 11.0%, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 compared to the comparable period last year due to the following items:  

   •    Gross profit on the sales from the acquisitions indicated above (excluding acquisition-related costs) was approximately $80 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013, which represented gross profit of approximately 43% of the acquisition sales.  

   •    Impact of lower inventory purchase accounting adjustments and acquisition integration costs charged to cost of sales of approximately $1 million.  

   •    Organic sales growth described above, application of our three core value-driven operating strategies (obtaining profitable new business, continually improving our cost structure, and providing highly engineered value-added products to customers), and positive leverage on our fixed overhead costs spread over a higher production volume, partially offset by unfavorable OEM versus aftermarket sales mix, resulted in a net increase in gross profit of approximately $44 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013.  

38  

Table of Contents 

   •    The gross profit increase described above was partially offset by higher stock compensation expense of $4 million mainly due to the accelerated vesting (discussed further below) and the impact of the favorable retroactive contract pricing adjustments that were higher in the prior year by approximately $17 million.  

Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses increased by $52.8 million to $254.5 million, or 13.2% of sales, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 from $201.7 million, or 11.9% of sales, for the comparable period last year. Selling and administrative expenses and the related percentage of total sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in the dollar amount of selling and administrative expenses during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 is primarily due to higher selling and administrative expenses relating to recent acquisitions of approximately $25 million, which was approximately 14% of the acquisition sales, and additional stock compensation expense of approximately $21 million recorded in June 2013 related to the accelerated vesting under the market sweep provision for all options granted prior to October 1, 2011.  

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets increased to $45.6 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 from $44.2 million for the comparable period last year. The net increase of $1.4 million was primarily due to amortization expense related to the additional identifiable intangible assets recognized in connection with acquisitions during the last twelve months partially offset by order backlog relating to prior acquisitions becoming fully amortized.  

Refinancing Costs. Refinancing costs of $30.3 million were recorded during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 representing debt issue costs expensed in conjunction with the refinancing of our 2010 Credit Facility and 2011 Credit Facility in February 2013.  

Interest Expense-net. Interest expense-net includes interest on outstanding borrowings, amortization of debt issue costs and revolving credit facility fees offset by interest income. Interest expense-net increased $58.8 million, or 27.7%, to $270.7 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 from $211.9 million for the comparable period last year. The net increase in interest expense-net was primarily due to an increase in the weighted average level of outstanding borrowings, which was approximately $4.63 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 and approximately $3.44 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 slightly offset by a decrease in the weighted average interest rate during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 of 5.6% compared to the weighted average interest rate during the comparable prior period of 6.2%. The increase in borrowings was primarily due to the additional $150 million term loan facility under the amendments to our 2011 Credit Facility which occurred in October 2012, additional borrowings of $36.4 million relating to our  

39  

Table of Contents 

 refinancing of the 2011 Credit Facility in February 2013, additional borrowings of $900 million relating to the Incremental Term Facility in July 2013, the issuance in October 2012 of our $550 million 2020 Notes and the issuance in July 2013 of our $500 million 2021 Notes. The weighted average interest rate on total outstanding borrowings at September 30, 2013 was 5.4%.  

Income Taxes. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before income taxes was approximately 32.5% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 compared to 33.4% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. The Company’s effective tax rate for these periods was less than the Federal statutory tax rate due primarily to the domestic manufacturing deduction. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 was primarily due to the retroactive reinstatement of the research and development tax credit and an increased benefit from the domestic manufacturing deduction.  

Net Income. Net income decreased $22.2 million, or 6.8%, to $302.8 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 compared to net income of $325.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2012. The decrease in net income was primarily due to the higher interest expense-net discussed above, the after-tax impact of $20.4 million, or $0.37 per share, related to the refinancing costs recorded during the period and the after-tax additional stock compensation expense recorded in June 2013 of $16.6 million, or $0.30 per share, related to the accelerated vesting under the market sweep provision for all options granted prior to October 1, 2011. The decrease noted above was partially offset by an increase in net income from operations.  

Earnings per Share. The basic and diluted earnings per share were $2.39 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 and $5.97 per share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. Net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 of $302.8 million was decreased by dividend equivalent payments of $171.2 million, or $3.11 per share, resulting in net income available to common shareholders of $131.5 million. Net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 of $325.0 million was decreased by dividend equivalent payments of $3.3 million, or $0.06 per share, resulting in net income available to common shareholders of $321.7 million. The decrease in earnings per share of $5.97 per share to $2.39 per share is a result of the factors referred to above.  

Business Segments  

Segment Net Sales. Net sales by segment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales for the Power & Control segment, excluding acquisitions and a retroactive contract pricing adjustment, increased approximately $32 million when compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. The sales increase was primarily due to an increase in defense sales of approximately $18 million, or an increase of 6.2%, an increase in commercial aftermarket sales of approximately $13 million, or an increase of 4.1%, and an increase in commercial OEM sales of approximately $4 million, or an increase of 3.1%. Acquisition sales totaled $70 million, or a 9.0% increase in segment sales, resulting from the acquisitions of Whippany Actuation and Arkwin in fiscal 2013 and Harco and Aero-Instruments in fiscal 2012. Sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 include a favorable commercial aftermarket retroactive contract pricing adjustment of approximately $6 million.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Sales for the Airframe segment, excluding acquisitions, the AmSafe distribution business, and OEM retroactive contract pricing adjustments, increased approximately $54 million when compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. The sales increase was primarily due to an increase in commercial OEM sales of approximately $50 million, or an increase of 14.3%, and an increase in defense sales of approximately $15 million, or an increase of 14.2%, offset by a decline in commercial aftermarket sales of approximately $10 million, or a decrease of 2.6%. The commercial aftermarket comparable sales, particularly in the second half of fiscal 2013 compared to the second half of fiscal 2012, were negatively impacted by non-market items associated with changing past business practices of previously-acquired businesses, changes in distributors and related inventory fluctuations. Acquisition sales for the Airframe segment totaled $83 million, or a 9.8% increase in segment sales, resulting from the acquisitions of Aerosonic in fiscal 2013 and AmSafe in fiscal 2012. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 reflects an OEM retroactive contract pricing adjustment of approximately $2 million. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 reflects sales of $18.8 million related to the AmSafe distribution business, which was acquired as part of AmSafe on February 15, 2012 and sold on August 16, 2012. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 also reflects OEM retroactive contract pricing adjustments of approximately $13 million.  

Acquisition sales for the Non-aviation segment totaled $31 million resulting primarily from the non-aviation business of AmSafe acquired in fiscal 2012. Organic sales declined by approximately $11 million.  

EBITDA As Defined. EBITDA As Defined by segment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

EBITDA As Defined for the Power & Control segment, excluding acquisitions and a prior year commercial aftermarket retroactive contract pricing adjustment, increased approximately $28 million when compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 due to increases in defense sales and commercial aftermarket sales. EBITDA As Defined from the acquisitions of Whippany Actuation, Arkwin, Aero-Instruments and Harco was approximately $23 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013, which represented EBITDA As Defined of approximately 33% of the acquisition sales.  

EBITDA As Defined for the Airframe segment, excluding acquisitions, pricing adjustments, and the AmSafe distribution business, increased approximately $25 million when compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. The increase was primarily due to the increases in commercial OEM sales and defense sales partially offset by a decrease in commercial aftermarket sales. EBITDA As Defined from the acquisitions of Aerosonic and AmSafe was approximately $31 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013, which represented EBITDA As Defined of approximately 37% of the acquisition sales. The year ended September 30, 2012 reflects EBITDA As Defined of approximately $13 million relating to prior year OEM retroactive contract pricing adjustments and approximately $3 million relating to the AmSafe distribution business. The year ended September 30, 2013 reflects EBITDA As Defined of approximately $2 million relating to the previously mentioned retroactive contract pricing adjustment.  

EBITDA As Defined for the Non-aviation segment from the acquisition of AmSafe was approximately $3 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013. Organic EBITDA declined approximately $4 million due to the organic sales decrease noted above and the mix of products sold in the non-aviation markets.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2011  

Total Company  

Net Sales. Net organic and acquisition sales and the related dollar and percentage changes for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Acquisition sales represent sales of acquired businesses for the period up to one year subsequent to their acquisition dates. The amount of acquisition sales shown in the table above resulted from the acquisitions of McKechnie Aerospace, Talley Actuation and Schneller in fiscal 2011 and Harco, AmSafe and Aero-Instruments in fiscal 2012.  

Organic sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 include favorable commercial OEM retroactive contract pricing adjustments of approximately $13 million and a favorable commercial aftermarket retroactive contract pricing adjustment of approximately $6 million.  

Excluding the impact of the retroactive contract pricing adjustments indicated above, commercial OEM sales increased $66.1 million, or an increase of 19.7%, commercial aftermarket sales increased $23.6 million, or an increase of 4.9%, and defense sales increased $30.5 million, or an increase of 8.9%, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012.  

Cost of Sales and Gross Profit. Cost of sales increased by $209.7 million, or 38.5%, to $754.5 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared to $544.8 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Cost of sales and the related percentage of total sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in the dollar amount of cost of sales during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 was primarily due to increased volume associated with organic sales growth and the sales from acquisitions partially offset by lower acquisition-related costs as shown in the table above.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased by 0.8 percentage points to 55.6% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 from 54.8% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. The dollar amount of gross profit increased by $284.5 million, or 43.0%, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared to the comparable period last year due to the following items:  

   •    Gross profit on the sales from the acquisitions indicated above (excluding acquisition-related costs) was approximately $180 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, which represented gross profit of approximately 51% of the acquisition sales.  

   •    Impact of favorable retroactive contract pricing adjustments of approximately $18 million.  

   •    Impact of lower inventory purchase accounting adjustments and acquisition integration costs charged to cost of sales of approximately $7 million.  

   •    Organic sales growth described above, application of our three core value-driven operating strategies (obtaining profitable new business, continually improving our cost structure, and providing highly engineered value-added products to customers), and positive leverage on our fixed overhead costs spread over a higher production volume, partially offset by unfavorable OEM versus aftermarket sales mix, resulted in a net increase in gross profit of approximately $80 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012.  

Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses increased by $68.0 million to $201.7 million, or 11.9% of sales, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 from $133.7 million, or 11.1% of sales, for the comparable period last year. Selling and administrative expenses and the related percentage of total sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in the dollar amount of selling and administrative expenses during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 is primarily due to higher selling and administrative expenses relating to recent acquisitions of approximately $56 million, which was approximately 16% of the acquisition sales. The increase in stock compensation expense is primarily due to an increased level of employees that participate in the Company’s stock compensation plans as a result of acquisitions and also due to higher grant date fair values for our stock options.  

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets increased to $44.2 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 from $40.3 million for the comparable period last year. The net increase of $3.9 million was primarily due to amortization expense related to the additional identifiable intangible assets recognized in connection with acquisitions during the last twelve months.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Refinancing Costs. Refinancing costs were recorded as a result of the refinancing of TransDigm’s entire debt structure in December 2010. The charge of $72.5 million consisted of the premium of $41.9 million paid to redeem our 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes, the write-off of debt issue costs and unamortized note premium and discount of $25.7 million, and the settlement of the interest rate swap agreement and other expenses of $4.9 million.  

Interest Expense-net. Interest expense-net includes interest on outstanding borrowings, amortization of debt issue costs and revolving credit facility fees offset by interest income. Interest expense increased $26.6 million, or 14.4%, to $211.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 from $185.3 for the comparable period last year. The net increase in interest expense-net was primarily due to an increase in the weighted average level of outstanding borrowings, which was approximately $3.44 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 and approximately $2.90 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 slightly offset by a decrease in the weighted average interest rate during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 of 6.2% compared to the weighted average interest rate during the comparable prior period of 6.4%. The increase in borrowings was due to the debt refinancing transactions and the acquisition financing related to McKechnie Aerospace which occurred in December 2010 and the additional term loan facility under the Amendment to our 2011 Credit Facility related to the AmSafe acquisition which occurred in February 2012.  

Income Taxes. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before income taxes was approximately 33.4% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared to 33.6% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to non-recurring adjustments in estimated deferred state obligations and the settlement of an IRS audit for the September 30, 2009 and 2010 year ends offset by the additional tax gain from the sale of the AmSafe distribution business.  

Income from Continuing Operations. Income from continuing operations increased by $172.8 million, or 113.5%, to $325.0 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 from $152.2 million for the comparable period last year. Income from continuing operations increased due to the factors described above.  

Income from Discontinued Operations. Income from discontinued operations includes results of operations through the dates of sale of the fastener business and AQS and the after-tax net gain on sales of $19.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.  

Net Income. Net income increased $152.9 million, or 88.8%, to $325.0 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 compared to net income of $172.1 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, primarily as a result of the factors referred to above.  

Earnings per Share. The basic and diluted earnings per share were $5.97 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 and $3.17 per share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 of $325.0 million was decreased by dividend equivalent payments of $3.3 million resulting in net income available to common shareholders of $321.7 million. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 comprises basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.80 and basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations of $0.37. Net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 of $172.1 million was decreased by dividend equivalent payments of $2.8 million resulting in net income available to shareholders of $169.3 million. The increase in earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.80 per share to $5.97 per share is due to the increase in income from continuing operations of $172.8 million, which is a result of the factors referred to above.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Business Segments  

Segment Net Sales. Net sales by segment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales for the Power & Control segment, excluding acquisitions and a commercial aftermarket retroactive contract pricing adjustment, increased approximately $51 million when compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. The sales increase was primarily due to an increase in defense sales of approximately $30 million, or an increase of 12.0%, an increase in commercial OEM sales of approximately $15 million, or an increase of 13.7%, and an increase in commercial aftermarket sales of approximately $5 million, or an increase of 0.9%. Acquisition sales totaled $50 million, or a 7.5% increase in segment sales, resulting primarily from the acquisition of Harco in fiscal 2012, and to a lesser extent the acquisition of the Talley Actuation business and certain product lines of McKechnie Aerospace in fiscal 2011. Sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 includes a favorable commercial aftermarket retroactive contract pricing adjustment of approximately $6 million.  

Sales for the Airframe segment, excluding acquisitions and retroactive contract pricing adjustments, increased approximately $67 million when compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. The sales increase was primarily due to an increase in commercial OEM sales of approximately $46 million, or an increase of 21.3%, and an increase in commercial aftermarket sales of approximately $19 million, or an increase of 9.6%. Acquisition sales totaled $259 million, or a 51.2% increase in segment sales, resulting primarily from the acquisition of AmSafe in fiscal 2012 and Schneller in fiscal 2011 and to a lesser extent certain product lines of McKechnie Aerospace in fiscal 2011. Sales during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 reflect commercial OEM retroactive contract pricing adjustments of approximately $13 million.  

The increase in net sales for the Non-aviation segment is primarily due to acquisition sales of $43 million relating to the non-aviation business of AmSafe acquired in fiscal 2012.  

EBITDA As Defined. EBITDA As Defined by segment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (amounts in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

EBITDA As Defined for the Power & Control segment, excluding acquisitions and a commercial aftermarket retroactive contract pricing adjustment, increased approximately $36 million when compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 due to the increases in defense sales, commercial OEM sales and commercial aftermarket sales. EBITDA As Defined from the acquisitions of Harco, Talley Actuation and certain product lines of McKechnie Aerospace was approximately $20 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, which represented EBITDA As Defined of approximately 39% of the acquisition sales.  

45  

Table of Contents 

EBITDA As Defined for the Airframe segment, excluding acquisitions and retroactive contract pricing adjustments, increased approximately $41 million when compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 due to the increases in commercial OEM sales and commercial aftermarket sales. EBITDA as Defined from the acquisitions of AmSafe, Schneller and certain product lines of McKechnie Aerospace was approximately $104 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, which represented EBITDA As Defined of approximately 40% of the acquisition sales.  

EBITDA As Defined for the Non-aviation segment increased primarily due to acquisition sales relating to the non-aviation business of AmSafe acquired in fiscal 2012.  

Backlog  

As of September 30, 2013, the Company estimated its sales order backlog at $1,081 million compared to an estimated sales order backlog of $833 million as of September 30, 2012. The increase in backlog is primarily due to acquisitions, totaling approximately $202 million and an increase in orders across existing OEM product lines and to a lesser extent the aftermarket. The majority of the purchase orders outstanding as of September 30, 2013 are scheduled for delivery within the next twelve months. Purchase orders may be subject to cancellation or deferral by the customer prior to shipment. The level of unfilled purchase orders at any given date during the year will be materially affected by the timing of the Company’s receipt of purchase orders and the speed with which those orders are filled. Accordingly, the Company’s backlog as of September 30, 2013 may not necessarily represent the actual amount of shipments or sales for any future period.  

Foreign Operations  

Although we manufacture a significant portion of our products in the United States, we manufacture some products in Belgium, China, Malaysia, Mexico, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom. We sell our products in the United States as well as in foreign countries. Although the majority of sales of our products are made to customers including distributors located in the United States, our products are ultimately sold to and used by customers, including airlines and other end users of aircraft, throughout the world. A number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition.  

Our direct sales to foreign customers were approximately $572.0 million, $508.8 million, and $305.5 million for fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales to foreign customers are subject to numerous additional risks, including the impact of foreign government regulations, political uncertainties and differences in business practices. There can be no assurance that foreign governments will not adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on the business or market opportunities of the Company within such governments’ countries. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the political, cultural and economic climate outside the United States will be favorable to our operations and growth strategy.  

Inflation  

Many of the Company’s raw materials and operating expenses are sensitive to the effects of inflation, which could result in changing operating costs. The effects of inflation on the Company’s businesses during the fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011 were not significant.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We have historically maintained a capital structure comprising a mix of equity and debt financing. We vary our leverage both to optimize our equity return and to pursue acquisitions. We expect to meet our current debt obligations as they come due through internally generated funds from current levels of operations and/or through refinancing in the debt or equity markets prior to the maturity dates of our debt.  

46  

Table of Contents 

We continually evaluate our debt facilities to assess whether they most efficiently and effectively meet the current and future needs of our business. The Company evaluates from time to time the appropriateness of its current leverage, taking into consideration the Company’s debt holders, equity holders, credit ratings, acquisition opportunities and other factors. The Company’s debt leverage ratio, which is computed as total debt divided by EBITDA As Defined for the applicable twelve-month period, has varied widely during the Company’s history, ranging from approximately 3.5 to 6.5. Our debt leverage ratio at September 30, 2013 was approximately 6.4.  

The Company regularly engages in discussions with respect to potential acquisitions and investments. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to consummate an agreement with respect to any future acquisition. The Company’s acquisition strategy may require substantial capital, and no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to raise any necessary funds on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company incurs additional debt to finance acquisitions, total interest expense will increase.  

If the Company has excess cash, it may consider methods by which it can provide cash to its debt or equity holders through a dividend, prepayment of indebtedness, repurchase of stock, repurchase of debt or other means. Whether the Company undertakes additional stock repurchases or other aforementioned activities will depend on prevailing market conditions, the Company’s liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. In addition, the Company may issue additional debt if prevailing market conditions are favorable to doing so.  

The Company’s ability to make scheduled interest payments on, or to refinance, the Company’s indebtedness, or to fund non-acquisition related capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend on the Company’s ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. Based on its current levels of operations and absent any disruptive events, management believes that internally generated funds and borrowings available under our revolving loan facility should provide sufficient resources to finance its operations, non-acquisition related capital expenditures, research and development efforts and long-term indebtedness obligations through at least fiscal 2014. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to the Company under the senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable it to pay its indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs. The Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. Also, to the extent the Company accelerates its growth plans, consummates acquisitions or has lower than anticipated sales or increases in expenses, the Company may also need to raise additional capital. In particular, increased working capital needs occur whenever the Company consummates acquisitions or experiences strong incremental demand. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  

The Company has not, at this time, determined to change the nature of its debt facilities. However, in the future, the Company may increase its borrowings in connection with acquisitions, if cash flow from operations becomes insufficient to fund current operations or for other short-term cash needs or for stock repurchases or dividends. Our future leverage will also be impacted by the then current conditions of the credit markets.  

Operating Activities. The Company generated $470.2 million of net cash from operating activities during fiscal 2013 compared to $413.9 million during fiscal 2012. The net increase of $56.3 million was due primarily to an increase in income from operations and lower income tax payments offset by higher interest payments due to the Company’s current debt structure.  

The Company generated $413.9 million of net cash from operating activities during fiscal 2012 compared to $260.4 million during fiscal 2011. The net increase of $153.5 million was due primarily to an increase in income from operations partially offset by higher interest payments due the Company’s current debt structure and higher income tax payments.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $502.4 million during fiscal 2013 consisting primarily of the acquisitions of Whippany Actuation, Arkwin and Aerosonic for a total of $483.3 million and capital expenditures of $35.5 million offset by the cash proceeds on the sale of our equity investment in C-Safe LLC of $16.4 million.  

Net cash used in investing activities was $876.3 million during fiscal 2012 consisting primarily of the acquisition of AmSafe, Harco and Aero-Instruments for a total of $868.7 million and capital expenditures of $25.2 million offset by the cash proceeds on the sale of the distribution business of $17.7 million.  

Net cash used in investing activities was $1,397.0 million during fiscal 2011, consisting primarily of the acquisitions of McKechnie Aerospace, Talley Actuation and Schneller Holdings for a total of $1,650.4 million and capital expenditures of $18.0 million offset by the cash proceeds on the sale of the fastener business and AQS of $271.4 million.  

Financing Activities. Net cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2013 was $156.2 million, which comprised $3,064.0 million of net proceeds from our 2013 Credit Facility, $147.4 million of additional net proceeds from the amendment of our 2011 Credit Facility, $494.8 million of net proceeds from our 2021 Notes, $541.6 million of net proceeds from our 2020 Notes and $87.7 million of cash for tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements and from the exercise of stock options offset by $18.8 million repayment on the 2013 Credit Facility, the repayment of our 2011 Credit Facility of $2,169.1 million and $1,991.4 million of dividend and dividend equivalent payments.  

Net cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2012 was $527.2 million, which comprised $484.3 million of additional net proceeds from the Amendment under our 2011 Credit Facility and $66.3 million of cash for tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements and from the exercise of stock options offset by $19.3 million repayment on our 2011 Secured Credit Facility, $3.3 million of dividend equivalent payments and $0.8 million of treasury stock purchased.  

Net cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2011 was $1,278.5 million, which comprised $1,260.3 million of net proceeds from the refinancing of our entire debt structure and $32.6 million of cash for tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements and from the exercise of stock options offset by $11.6 million repayment on our 2011 Credit Facility and $2.8 million of dividends and dividend equivalent payments.  

Description of Senior Secured Credit Facility and Indentures  

On February 28, 2013, TransDigm Inc. entered into an Amendment and Restatement Agreement (the “Amendment and Restatement Agreement”) in which TransDigm amended and restated its previous credit facilities. The Amendment and Restatement Agreement provides for a $2,200 million term loan facility (the “Term Loan Facility”), which was fully drawn on February 28, 2013, and a $310 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility” and together with the Term Loan Facility, the “2013 Credit Facility”).  

The proceeds of the Term Loan Facility were used to repay in full the outstanding term loans under the previous credit facility and the related transaction expenses associated therewith. The Term Loan Facility consists of two tranches of term loans: the tranche B term loans and the tranche C term loans, and the Revolving Credit Facility consists of two tranches: the revolving A commitments and the revolving B commitments. The tranche B term loans consist of $500 million in the aggregate and the tranche C term loans consist of $1,700 million in the aggregate. The tranche B term loans mature on February 14, 2017 and the tranche C term loans mature on February 28, 2020.  

On July 1, 2013, TransDigm Inc. entered into Amendment No. 1 (the “Amendment”) to the 2013 Credit Facility. The Amendment permits, among other things, a special dividend of up to $1.9 billion to the holders of TD Group’s common stock, par value $.01 per share, the issuance of the 2021 Notes (as defined below), changes  

48  

Table of Contents 

 to certain negative covenants under the 2013 Credit Facility, a modification to the financial covenant contained in the Revolving Credit Facility established pursuant to the 2013 Credit Facility and a modification to the incremental term loan facility established pursuant to the 2013 Credit Facility by excluding the Incremental Term Facility (as defined below) from the calculation of the availability thereunder.  

On July 1, 2013, in accordance with the terms of the 2013 Credit Facility, TransDigm Inc. entered into an Incremental Term Loan Assumption Agreement (the “Term Loan Assumption Agreement”). The Term Loan Assumption Agreement provides for incremental term loans in the form of additional Tranche C Term Loans in the aggregate principal amount of $900 million (the “Incremental Term Facility”). The Incremental Term Facility was fully drawn on July 1, 2013. The terms and conditions that apply to the Incremental Term Facility are substantially the same as the terms and conditions that apply to the existing tranche C term loans under the 2013 Credit Facility. The Term Loan Facility requires quarterly principal payments of $7.8 million.  

The revolving A commitments are $32 million in the aggregate and the revolving B commitments are $278 million in the aggregate. The revolving A commitments mature on December 6, 2015 and the revolving B commitments mature on February 28, 2018. At September 30, 2013, the Company had $6.8 million letters of credit outstanding and $303.2 million of borrowings available under the 2013 Credit Facility.  

Under the terms of the 2013 Credit Facility, TransDigm is entitled on one or more occasions, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, to request additional commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility or additional term loans in the aggregate principal amount of up to $500 million to the extent that existing or new lenders agree to provide such additional term loans. In addition, TransDigm is entitled to convert, subject to certain conditions, the revolving A commitments to revolving B commitments.  

All of the indebtedness outstanding under the 2013 Credit Facility is guaranteed by TD Group and all of TransDigm’s current and future domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than immaterial subsidiaries). In addition, the obligations of TransDigm and the guarantors under the 2013 Credit Facility are secured ratably in accordance with each lender’s respective revolving and term loan commitments by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the existing and future property and assets, including inventory, equipment, general intangibles, intellectual property, investment property and other personal property (but excluding leasehold interests and certain other assets) of TransDigm and its existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries (other than immaterial subsidiaries), and a first priority pledge of the capital stock of TransDigm and its subsidiaries (other than foreign subsidiaries and certain domestic subsidiaries, of which 65% of the voting capital stock is pledged).  

The interest rates per annum applicable to the loans under the 2013 Credit Facility will be, at TransDigm’s option, equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted LIBO rate for one, two, three or six-month (or to the extent agreed to by each relevant lender, nine or twelve-month) interest periods chosen by TransDigm, in each case plus an applicable margin percentage. The adjusted LIBO rate is subject to a floor of .75%. At September 30, 2013 the applicable interest rate was 3.50% on the tranche B term loan and 3.75% on the tranche C term loan.  

The Term Loan Facility requires mandatory prepayments of principal based on certain percentages of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the 2013 Credit Facility), commencing 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year ending September 30, 2014, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, subject to certain exceptions (including, with respect to asset sales, the reinvestment in productive assets), TransDigm will be required to prepay the loans outstanding under the term loan facility at 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales and issuance or incurrence of certain indebtedness. In addition, if, prior to February 28, 2014, the principal amount of the term loans are (i) prepaid substantially concurrently with the incurrence by TD Group, TransDigm or any its subsidiaries of new bank loans that have an effective yield lower than the yield in effect on the term loans so prepaid or (ii) received by a lender due to a mandatory assignment following the failure of such lender to consent to an amendment of the 2013 Credit Facility that has the effect of reducing the effective interest rate with respect to the term loans, such prepayment or receipt shall be accompanied by a premium of 1.0%.  

49  

Table of Contents 

The 2013 Credit Facility contains certain covenants that limit the ability of TD Group, TransDigm and TransDigm’s restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: (i) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; (ii) pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase capital stock or redeem or repurchase subordinated debt; (iii) make investments; (iv) sell assets; (v) enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from restricted subsidiaries to TransDigm; (vi) incur or suffer to exist liens securing indebtedness; (vii) consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of their assets; and (viii) engage in transactions with affiliates.  

At September 30, 2013, three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were in place to swap variable rates on the 2013 Credit Facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million. These interest rate swap agreements converted the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the 2013 Credit Facility to a fixed rate of 5.17% (2.17% plus the 3% margin percentage) through June 30, 2015.  

On July 16, 2013, the Company entered into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements beginning September 30, 2014 to hedge the variable interest rates on the 2013 Credit Facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $1.0 billion through June 30, 2019. These forward-starting interest rate swap agreements will effectively convert the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the 2013 Credit Facility to a fixed rate of 5.4% (2.4% plus the 3% margin percentage) over the term of the interest rate swap agreements.  

On December 15, 2010, TransDigm issued $1.6 billion in aggregate principal amount of its 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount. Interest under the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually on December 15 and June 15 of each year. The 2018 Notes mature on December 15, 2018, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased, and are subject to the terms and conditions as defined in the indenture governing the 2018 notes. TransDigm utilized a portion of the proceeds from the 2018 Notes to purchase its 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (the “2014 Notes”).  

On October 15, 2012 TransDigm Inc. issued $550 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020 (the “2020 Notes”) at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount. The 2020 Notes bear interest at the rate of 5 1/2% per annum, which accrues from October 15, 2012 and is payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 of each year. The 2020 Notes mature on October 15, 2020, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased, and are subject to the terms and conditions as defined in the indenture governing the 2020 notes.  

On July 1, 2013, TransDigm issued $500 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7 1/2 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2021 (the “2021 Notes”) at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount. The 2021 Notes bear interest at the rate of 7 1/2% per annum, which accrues from July 1, 2013 and is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2014. The 2021 Notes mature on July 15, 2021, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased, and are subject to the terms and conditions as defined in the indenture governing the 2021 Notes.  

The 2021 Notes, 2020 Notes and the 2018 Notes are subordinated to all of TransDigm’s existing and future senior debt, rank equally with all of its existing and future senior subordinated debt and rank senior to all of its future debt that is expressly subordinated to the 2021 Notes, 2020 Notes and 2018 Notes. The 2021 Notes, 2020 Notes and the 2018 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated unsecured basis by TD Group and its wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries named in the Indenture. The guarantees of the 2021 Notes, 2020 Notes and the 2018 Notes are subordinated to all of the guarantors’ existing and future senior debt, rank equally with all of their existing and future senior subordinated debt and rank senior to all of their future debt that is expressly subordinated to the guarantees of the 2021 Notes, 2020 Notes and the 2018 Notes. The 2021 Notes, 2020 Notes and the 2018 Notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of TD Group’s non-guarantor subsidiaries. The 2021 Notes, 2020 Notes and the 2018 Notes contain many of the restrictive covenants included in the 2013 Credit Facility. TransDigm is in compliance with all the covenants contained in the 2021 Notes, 2020 Notes and 2018 Notes.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Certain Restrictive Covenants in Our Debt Documents  

The credit facility and the Indentures contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, asset sales, acquisitions, mergers and consolidations, liens and encumbrances, and prepayments of other indebtedness. In addition if the total amount of revolving loans and letters of credit exceeds 25% of the aggregate revolving commitment, the credit facility requires that the Company meet a net debt to EBITDA As Defined ratio, on a pro forma basis. A breach of any of the covenants or an inability to comply with the required leverage ratio could result in a default under the credit facilities or the Indentures. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the credit facilities and the holders of the 2018 Notes, 2020 Notes and 2021 Notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the credit facilities also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. In addition, following an event of default under the credit facilities, the lenders thereunder will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 2018 Notes, 2020 Notes and 2021 Notes.  

Stock Repurchase Program  

On August 22, 2011, the Board of Directors authorized a common share repurchase program, which was announced on August 23, 2011. Under the terms of the program, the Company may purchase up to a maximum aggregate value of $100 million of its shares of common stock. For the year ended September 30, 2012, the Company repurchased 11,300 shares of its common stock at a gross cost of approximately $0.8 million at a weighted-average price per share of $74.87 per share. No repurchases were made under the program during the year ended September 30, 2013. On October 29, 2013, we announced a new program replacing that program permitting us to repurchase a portion of our outstanding shares not to exceed $200 million in the aggregate.  

Contractual Obligations  

The following is a summary of contractual cash obligations as of September 30, 2013 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The tranche B term loan mature in February 2017 and the tranche C term loan mature in February 2020. The term loans require quarterly principal payments totaling $7.8 million.  

 (2) Assumes that the variable interest rate on our tranche B borrowings under our senior secured credit facility remains constant at 3.5% and the tranche C borrowings under our senior secured credit facility remains constant at 3.75%. In addition, interest payments include the impact of the 5.17% interest rate fixed through our forward-starting swap agreements from December 31, 2012 through June 30, 2015 on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million and the impact of the 5.42% interest rate fixed through our forward-starting swap agreements from September 31, 2014 through June 30, 2019 on an aggregate notional amount of $1.0 billion  

In addition to the contractual obligations set forth above, the Company incurs capital expenditures for the purpose of maintaining and replacing existing equipment and facilities and, from time to time, for facility expansion. Capital expenditures totaled approximately $35.5 million, $25.2 million, and $18.0 million during fiscal 2013, 2012, and fiscal 2011, respectively. The Company expects its capital expenditures in fiscal 2014 to be between $40 million and $45 million and such expenditures are projected to increase moderately thereafter.  

51  

Table of Contents 

New Accounting Standards  

In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued authoritative accounting guidance included in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income.” This guidance eliminates the option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in equity. Companies can elect to present items of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. The Company adopted the presentation guidance during the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and has elected to present two separate consecutive statements.  

In February 2013, FASB issued authoritative accounting guidance included in ASC Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income.” This guidance requires all U.S. public companies to report the effect of items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the respective line items of net income, net of tax, either on the face of the financial statements where net income is presented or in a tabular format in the notes to the financial statements. This presentation guidance is effective for the Company on October 1, 2013. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.  

Additional Disclosure Required by Indentures  

Separate financial statements of TransDigm Inc. are not presented since TD Group has no operations or significant assets separate from its investment in TransDigm Inc. and since the 2018 Notes, 2020 Notes and the 2021 Notes are guaranteed by TD Group and all direct and indirect domestic restricted subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. TransDigm Inc.’s immaterial wholly owned foreign subsidiaries are not obligated to guarantee the 2018 Notes, 2020 Notes and the 2021 Notes.  

 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK