PART I 

  ITEM 1.   Business    

Forward Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements in this document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements which may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "would," "should," "may," "estimates" and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause Public Storage's actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. As a result, you should not rely on any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements. All of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this document, except where expressly required by law. Accordingly, you should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements to anticipate future results. Factors and risks that may impact our future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 

General 

Public Storage was organized in 1980. Effective June 1, 2007, we reorganized Public Storage, Inc. into Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”, “the Trust”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”). Our principal business activities include the acquisition, development, ownership and operation of self-storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease, generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use. We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in the United States (“U.S.”), and we have an equity interest in Shurgard Europe, a private company that we believe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Europe and we have an equity interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. whose business activities primarily include the ownership and operations of commercial properties. At December 31, 2009, we operate within three reportable segments described below: (i) Domestic Self-Storage, (ii) Europe Self-Storage and (iii) Commercial. See also Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further discussion with respect to our reportable segments. 

The Domestic Self-Storage segment, at December 31, 2009, includes our direct and indirect equity interests in 2,010 self-storage facilities (127 million net rentable square feet of space) located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the “Public Storage” brand name. 

The Europe Self-Storage segment, at December 31, 2009, comprises our 49% equity interest in Shurgard Europe which owns 187 self-storage facilities (10 million net rentable square feet of space) located in seven countries in Europe which operate under the “Shurgard Storage Centers” brand name and manages one facility located in the United Kingdom that we wholly own. 

The Commercial segment, at December 31, 2009, includes direct and indirect equity interests in approximately 21 million net rentable square feet of commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S., including our 41% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), a publicly traded REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PSB” (see “Investment in PSB” under “Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities” included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below for further information regarding our investment in PSB). This commercial space is primarily operated under the “PS Business Parks” brand name. 

4 

Certain other activities, due to their insignificant scale and dissimilarity in operating characteristics to our existing segments, are not allocated to any segment. These activities include (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage facilities, (ii) the sale of merchandise at our self-storage facilities and (iii) management of self-storage facilities owned by third-party owners and entities that we have an ownership interest in but are not consolidated. We previously had truck rental and containerized storage operations, which we ceased operations in 2009. 

We significantly increased the scope and scale of our operations on August 22, 2006, when we merged with Shurgard Storage Centers, Inc. (“Shurgard” and the merger referred to as the “Shurgard Merger”), a REIT which had an interest in 487 self-storage facilities located in the U.S. and an interest in 160 facilities in Europe. On March 31, 2008, we entered into a transaction with an institutional investor (the transaction referred to as the “Europe Transaction”) whereby the investor acquired a 51% equity interest in our European operations (“Shurgard Europe”). Shurgard Europe held substantially all of the operations in which we have an interest in Europe. Since March 31, 2008, we own the remaining 49% interest and are the managing member of Shurgard European Holdings LLC, a joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe’s operations. 

For all taxable years subsequent to 1980, we qualified and intend to continue to qualify as a REIT, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, we do not incur federal or significant state tax on that portion of our taxable income which is distributed to our shareholders, provided that we meet certain tests. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be subject to tax, with certain limited exceptions, on the taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders. 

We have reported annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial statements certified by our independent registered public accountants. We have also reported quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements with such filings. We expect to continue such reporting. 

On our website, www.publicstorage.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

The Impact of Current Economic Factors 

The recessionary trends experienced in 2008 and 2009, including the contraction in economic activity and elevation in unemployment rates experienced in the U.S. and Europe, have had a negative impact upon our business, and we have responded with what we believe are short-term revisions to our long-term growth strategies. 

Operationally, our occupancies and rental rates have come under pressure as demand for self-storage space has softened. We have responded by reducing rental rates, increasing promotional discounts, and increasing our marketing activities to stimulate additional demand for our storage space and increase our market share. 

We have shut down our development activities, both in the U.S. and Europe due to the current level of risk inherent in development, uncertain consumer demand for when such facilities open for operation, and to preserve capital. We have increased our earnings yield or capitalization rate requirements with respect to the acquisition of existing self-storage facilities. We believe that existing self-storage properties may be marketed, at attractive prices, due to financial or operating stress of their owners which may create acquisition opportunities for us. We have taken advantage of capital market dislocations with respect to our own securities through the repurchase of our own preferred shares and our unsecured debt. While capital markets have improved recently from the severe stress incurred in late 2008 and early 2009, they are still relatively constrained and in flux compared to historical norms. We believe under current capital market conditions our ability to issue preferred securities at reasonable rates is limited. Despite the difficult capital markets, we believe that we are well-positioned with significant cash balances on hand, have an expectation of continued internally generated cash flow that can be used for reinvestment, and relatively modest debt maturities as described in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 

5 

While we believe that these actions are the appropriate response to the existing economic environment, and that they will best position us to take advantage of the current environment in the short-term and then resume our traditional growth strategy in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. 

See “Growth and Investment Strategies” and “Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies” below for more information regarding our traditional long-term strategy to grow the cash flows and equity values of the Company. 

Competition 

Self-storage facilities generally draw customers from residents within a three to five mile radius. Many of our facilities operate within three to five miles of well-located and well-managed competitors that seek the same group of customers through many of the same marketing channels we use, including yellow page advertising, Internet advertising, as well as signage and banners. As a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities. 

While competition is significant, the self-storage industry remains fragmented in the U.S. We believe that we own approximately 5% of the aggregate self-storage square footage in the U.S., and that collectively the five largest self-storage operators in the U.S. own only approximately 10% of the aggregate self-storage space in the U.S., with the remaining 90% owned by numerous private regional and local operators. This market fragmentation enhances the advantage of our economies of scale and our brand relative to other operators (see “Business Attributes – Economies of Scale” below), and could result in potential growth in our platform through acquisitions over the long term. 

In seeking investments, we compete with a wide variety of institutions and other investors. The amount of funds available for real estate investments greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments. 

Business Attributes 

We believe that we possess several primary business attributes that permit us to compete effectively: 

Centralized information networks: Our facilities are part of comprehensive centralized reporting and information networks which enable the management team to identify changing market conditions and operating trends as well as analyze customer data, and quickly change our properties’ pricing and promotional mix on an automated basis. 

National Telephone Reservation System: We operate a centralized telephone reservation system, which provides added customer service and helps to maximize utilization of available self-storage space. Customers calling either the toll-free telephone referral system, (800) 44-STORE, or a storage facility, are directed to the national reservation system. A representative discusses with the customer space requirements, price and location preferences and also informs the customer of other products and services provided by the Company and its subsidiaries. We believe that the centralized telephone reservation system enhances our ability to market storage space in the U.S. relative to handling these calls at individual properties, because it allows us to more effectively offer all spaces at all facilities in the vicinity of a customer and to provide higher-quality selling efforts through dedicated sales specialists. We also provide customers the opportunity to review space availability and make reservations online through our website, www.publicstorage.com. 

Economies of scale: We are the largest provider of self-storage space in the U.S. As of December 31, 2009, we operated 2,010 self-storage facilities in which we had an interest and managed 32 self-storage facilities for third parties. These facilities are generally located in major markets within 38 states in the U.S. At December 31, 2009, we had over one million self-storage spaces rented. The size and scope of our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many functions with specialists, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation and benefits programs, pricing of our product, as well as the development and documentation of standardized operating procedures. We also believe that our major market concentration provides managerial efficiencies stemming from having a large number of facilities in close proximity to each other. 

6 

We can economically purchase large, prominent, well-placed yellow page ads that allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller operators. We are also able to purchase and bid aggressively for multiple-keyword advertising on national Internet search engines. In addition, we are able to market efficiently using television as a media source. The concentration of most of our properties in major metropolitan centers makes various promotional and media programs, such as television, yellow pages, and Internet keyword bidding, far more economical for us than for our competitors. 

Brand name recognition: Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the “Public Storage” brand name, which we believe is the most recognized and established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S. Our storage operations within the U.S. are conducted in major markets in 38 states, giving us national recognition and prominence. Our facilities tend to be highly visible and located in heavily populated areas, improving the local awareness of our brand. We believe that the “Shurgard” brand, used by Shurgard Europe, is a similarly established and valuable brand. 

Complementary ancillary operations: Through a taxable REIT subsidiary, we sell retail items associated with the storage business and reinsure policies issued to our tenants against lost or damaged goods stored by tenants in our storage facilities. We believe these activities supplement and strengthen our existing self-storage business by further meeting the needs of storage customers. 

Growth and Investment Strategies 

As described more specifically in “The Impact of Current Economic Factors” above, our growth strategies have been revised in the short-run to respond to current market conditions. 

Over the long-run, our growth strategies have consisted of: (i) improving the operating performance of our existing self-storage properties, (ii) acquiring properties that are owned or operated by others in the U.S., (iii) developing or redeveloping existing U.S. real estate facilities, (iv) participating in the growth of commercial facilities owned primarily by PSB, and (v) capitalizing on the growth of facilities owned by Shurgard Europe in the European market. In addition to certain revisions to these strategies described below, our strategy has been revised in the short-run to take advantage of dislocation in current capital markets. 

Improve the operating performance of existing properties: Demand for our self-storage facilities has been negatively impacted over the past two years by the current recessionary trends, and revenue and net operating income have both declined in 2009. Over the long-run we seek to increase the net cash flow generated by our existing self-storage properties by a) regularly evaluating our call volume, reservation activity, and move-in/move-out rates for each of our properties relative to our marketing activities, b) evaluating market supply and demand factors and, based upon these analyses, adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, c) attempting to maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate balance between occupancy, rental rates, and promotional discounting and d) controlling expense levels. We believe that our property management personnel and systems, combined with our national telephone reservation system and media advertising programs will continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” below for further information regarding our expectation in the short-run with respect to our operating results. 

Acquire properties owned or operated by others in the U.S.: Our long-run strategy has included acquiring well-located facilities owned or operated by others in the U.S. that fit well within our geographic profile, at generally attractive pricing. We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities and capitalize on the overall fragmentation in the self-storage industry. Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels of our existing facilities, which are often located in proximity to potential acquisition candidates, provide us an advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities. In the short-run, we believe that there may be more attractive opportunities for the acquisition of facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face loan covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes due. The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether the banks and other lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which would force a sale of the properties of these distressed owners, rather than extending existing loans or waiving covenant violations. It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders’ desire to extend these loans rather than foreclose. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities may materialize in the future. 

7 

Development of real estate facilities: We believe that in the long-run, development of new storage locations and expansion of our existing self-storage facilities represent an important part of our growth strategy. New locations can be developed to meet customer needs and expand our geographic reach, generally within our existing markets. In addition, existing facilities can be expanded or enhanced to provide additional amenities such as climate control, to better capitalize on increased population density in certain facilities’ local market area. However, in light of current capital market conditions, doubt as to the potential lease-up of new storage space in the face of reduced demand, and the increased potential in the short-run for attractive acquisitions of existing facilities described above, we substantially curtailed our development pipeline. Accordingly, in 2009 our investment in the development of real estate facilities was minimal, and we continue to have nominal development pipeline at December 31, 2009. Shurgard Europe has similarly reduced its development activities (see “Capitalize on the Potential for Growth in Europe” below). 

Participate in the growth of commercial facilities primarily through our ownership in PS Business Parks, Inc.: At December 31, 2009, we had a 41% common equity interest in PSB and its operating partnership which consisted of 5,801,606 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in the Operating Partnership. The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common stock. At December 31, 2009, PSB owned and operated approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space located in eight states in the U.S. During 2009 and 2008, the recession in the U.S. impacted PSB resulting in a decrease in new rental rates over expiring rents, as well as declining occupancy levels in 2009 and in the last six months of 2008. It is uncertain what impact the current recessionary trends will have on PSB’s future occupancy levels and rental rents. PSB may continue to experience downward pressure on its occupancy levels and rental rates. Due to capital market dislocations and other factors, PSB did not acquire any new commercial space in 2009 and 2008. 

Capitalize on the potential for growth in Europe: On March 31, 2008, we entered into the Europe Transaction with an institutional investor whereby the investor acquired a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe. Shurgard Europe held substantially all of our operations in Europe. Since March 31, 2008, we own the remaining 49% interest and are the managing member of Shurgard European Holdings LLC, a new joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe’s operations. 

We believe that Shurgard Europe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Western Europe. At December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe’s operations comprise 187 facilities with an aggregate of approximately 10 million net rentable square feet. The portfolio consists of 115 wholly owned facilities and 72 facilities owned by two joint venture partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest. 

Shurgard Europe operates in seven markets in Western Europe: the French market (principally Paris), the Swedish market (principally Stockholm), the United Kingdom market (principally London), the Dutch market, the Belgian market, the Danish market (principally Copenhagen) and the German market. 

In contrast to the U.S., the European self-storage industry is relatively immature. In each of the markets that Shurgard Europe operates customer awareness of the product is relatively low and ownership of self-storage facilities remains fragmented. Although many European consumers are not yet aware of the self-storage concept, they tend to live in more densely populated areas in smaller living spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe, should make self-storage an attractive option as product knowledge and availability of additional self-storage facilities grows. Most Europeans are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary service provided by moving companies, and more consumer familiarity could result in a significant increase in demand in the long-term. 

8 

In the longer term, we believe that there is significant growth potential in Europe to expand the number of facilities owned either through development, acquisition, and consolidation, even if the density of self-storage in Europe does not ultimately approach the levels in the U.S. However, ultimately capitalizing on this opportunity will require a significant amount of capital to develop new self-storage facilities in what could be a process extending through a few decades in time frame, similar to the trajectory of the U.S. self-storage industry since its inception in the mid 1960’s. 

Shurgard Europe, and its ability and wherewithal to take advantage of these opportunities, has been impacted by the same economic trends that have negatively impacted our domestic self-storage operations and capital markets. In addition to the operating uncertainties that we face, Shurgard Europe faces refinancing risk, as approximately $168 million (€117 million) and $153 million (€107 million) of debt owed by joint ventures matures in July 2010 and May 2011, respectively, and approximately $561.7 million (€391.9 million) in a loan payable to us becomes due in March 2013. Accordingly, Shurgard Europe has taken many of the same steps that we have domestically, by curtailing its development activities. At such time that public market capital or bank debt becomes available to Shurgard Europe to refinance its existing debt and economic trends improve, development and growth may recommence; however, there can be no assurance that such development and growth will ultimately recommence and at what levels. 

Take advantage of dislocation in capital markets: At December 31, 2009, we have cash balances on hand of approximately $763.8 million. On February 12, 2009, in accordance with an “any and all” tender offer, we acquired $110.2 million (face amount) of our Senior Unsecured Debt. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, we acquired $352.7 million (face amount) of our preferred shares and units on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions for an aggregate acquisition cost of $237.4 million. There could be opportunities for future acquisition of our own outstanding debt and equity securities, particularly if there were a return to the same acute turbulence in the credit and equity markets which occurred in late 2008 and early 2009. Any future such transactions will depend upon our evaluation of the return of such investments relative to our other investment alternatives. There can be no assurance that any future such transactions will occur or the potential yield on such transactions. 

Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies 

Impact of Current Capital Markets: As described above in “The Impact of Current Economic Factors”, one of our traditional sources of external capital is, through the issuance of preferred securities and, although we have not attempted to issue additional preferred securities over the past twelve months, we believe that we could issue additional preferred securities on a limited basis. While we expect continued improvement in the capital markets to issue preferred securities, there can be no assurance as to when market conditions will improve for preferred securities issuances at amounts and at rates that we will find reasonable. 

Overview of financing strategy: Over the past three years we have funded substantially all the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities with permanent capital (predominantly retained cash flow and the net proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities). We have elected to use preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional debt, because of certain benefits described in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.’’ Our present intention is to continue to finance substantially all our growth with cash on hand ($763.8 million at December 31, 2009), internally generated cash flows and permanent capital. 

Borrowing: We have in the past used our $300 million revolving line of credit as temporary “bridge” financing, and repaid those amounts with permanent capital. Our debt outstanding currently represents debt that was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions or in connection with the Shurgard Merger. When we have assumed such debt in the past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made it economically disadvantageous to prepay. While it is not our present intention to issue additional debt as a long-term financing strategy, we have broad powers to borrow in furtherance of our objectives without a vote of our shareholders. Our senior debt has an “A-” credit rating by Standard and Poor’s combined with our low level of debt, we believe we could issue a significant amount of unsecured debt, at attractive rates, in the current markets. These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured borrowings in our Bylaws described in “Limitations on Debt” below. 

9 

Issuance of securities in exchange for property: We have issued both our common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other investments in the past, most notably the issuance of 38,913,187 common shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger in 2006. Future issuances will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market conditions at the time, including the market prices of our equity securities. 

Joint Venture financing: We have historically formed and may form additional joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future developments or acquisitions. 

Disposition of properties: We historically have disposed of self-storage facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell. We do not presently intend to sell any significant number of self-storage facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not. 

Investments in Real Estate and Real Estate Entities 

Investment Policies and Practices with respect to our investments: Following are our investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any significant alteration, can be changed by our Board of Trustees without a shareholder vote: 

  ·    Our investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage properties (the nature of our self-storage properties is described in Item 2, “Properties”), as well as partial interests in entities that own self-storage properties.    

  ·    Our partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited partnership interests in entities that own self-storage facilities that are managed by us under the “Public Storage” brand name in the U.S., as well as storage facilities managed in Europe under the “Shurgard Storage Centers” brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe.    

  ·    Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in entities in which we already have an interest.    

  ·    To a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties (described in Item 2, “Properties”), containing commercial and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.    

Facilities Owned by Subsidiaries 

In addition to our direct ownership of 1,523 self-storage facilities in the U.S. and one self-storage facility in London, England at December 31, 2009 with an aggregate of approximately 98 million net rentable square feet, we have controlling indirect interests in entities that own 468 self-storage facilities in the U.S. with approximately 28 million net rentable square feet. In addition to our self-storage space, we own approximately 1.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space primarily located adjacent to our self-storage facilities. Because of our controlling interest in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities in our financial statements. 

Facilities Owned by Unconsolidated Entities 

At December 31, 2009, we had ownership interests in PSB, which owned approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space at December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe, which had ownership interests in 187 facilities with approximately 10 million net rentable square feet of storage space, and certain limited partnerships owning an aggregate of 19 self-storage facilities with approximately 1 million net rentable square feet of storage space. Collectively these entities are referred to as the “Unconsolidated Entities.” 

10 

PSB, which files financial statements with the SEC, and Shurgard Europe, have debt and other obligations that are not included in our consolidated financial statements. The limited partnerships have no significant amounts of debt or other obligations. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets, liabilities and operating results of the Unconsolidated Entities. 

Limitations on Debt 

Without the consent of holders of the various series of Senior Preferred Shares, we may not take any action that would result in a ratio of ''Debt'' to ''Assets'' (the ''Debt Ratio'') in excess of 50%. As of December 31, 2009, the Debt Ratio was approximately 4%. ''Debt'' means the liabilities (other than ''accrued and other liabilities'' and “redeemable noncontrolling interests'') that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on our consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination. ''Assets'' means our total assets before a reduction for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on the consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination. 

Our bank and senior unsecured debt agreements contain various customary financial covenants, including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of default. 

Employees 

We have approximately 4,900 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2009 who render services on behalf of the Company, primarily personnel engaged in property operations. None of our employees in the U.S. are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are generally amicable. 

Seasonality 

We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self-storage facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months. 

Insurance 

We have historically carried customary property, earthquake, general liability and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to customary levels of deductibles. The aggregate limits on these policies of $75 million for property coverage and $102 million for general liability are higher than estimates of maximum probable loss that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted. 

Our tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to certificate holders against claims for property losses due to specific named perils (earthquakes and floods are not covered by these policies) to goods stored by tenants at our self-storage facilities for individual limits up to a maximum of $5,000. We have third-party insurance coverage for claims paid exceeding $1,000,000 resulting from any one individual event, to a limit of $25,000,000. At December 31, 2009, there were approximately 585,000 certificate holders held by our tenants, participating in this program representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.3 billion. Because each certificate represents insurance of goods held by a tenant at our self-storage facilities, the geographic concentration of this $1.3 billion in coverage is dispersed throughout all of our U.S. facilities. We rely on a third-party insurance company to provide the insurance and are subject to licensing requirements and regulations in several states. 

11 

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors