ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the Company. This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of Item 1. 

Since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. 

The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership. Since we derive substantially all of our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of acquiring and owning real estate-related assets, including:  

      •   lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale;     

      •   changes in general economic or local conditions;     

      •   natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods; which could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage;     

      •   potential terrorist attacks;     

      •   changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area;     

      •   the impact of environmental protection laws;     

      •   changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds which may render the sale of a nonstrategic property difficult or unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit markets;     

      •   increases in insurance premiums, property tax assessments and other operating and maintenance expenses;    

      •   transactional costs and liabilities, including transfer taxes;    

      •   adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and     

      •   tenant and employment-related claims.     

In addition, we self-insure certain of our property loss, liability, and workers compensation risks for which other real estate companies may use third-party insurers. This results in a higher risk of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts, as described in Note 13 under “Insurance and Loss Exposure” to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. 

There is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives. Most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Local market conditions will play a significant part in how competition will affect us. Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located from other self-storage facilities and other storage alternatives is significant and has affected the occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses of most of our properties. Any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate may accelerate competition. Further development of self-storage facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage facilities in the market areas in which we operate. 

12 

We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities. As an owner and operator of real properties, under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we are required to clean up spills or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties. Certain environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. In some cases, liability may not be limited to the value of the property. The presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, whether from environmental or microbial issues, also may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its property as collateral. 

We have conducted preliminary environmental assessments of most of our properties (and intend to conduct these assessments in connection with property acquisitions) to evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities associated with, our properties. These assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of available information regarding the site and publicly available data regarding conditions at other sites in the vicinity. In connection with these property assessments, our operations and recent property acquisitions, we have become aware that prior operations or activities at some facilities or from nearby locations have or may have resulted in contamination to the soil or groundwater at these facilities. In this regard, some of our facilities are or may be the subject of federal or state environmental investigations or remedial actions. We have obtained, with respect to recent acquisitions, and intend to obtain with respect to pending or future acquisitions, appropriate purchase price adjustments or indemnifications that we believe are sufficient to cover any related potential liability. Although we cannot provide any assurance, based on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we have funds available to cover any liability from environmental contamination or potential contamination and we are not aware of any environmental contamination of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. 

There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other property damage. When we receive a complaint concerning moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures in accordance with guidelines and protocols we have developed with the assistance of outside experts. We seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve moisture infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. However, we can give no assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the future. 

Delays in development and fill-up of our properties would reduce our profitability. From January 1, 2005, through December 31, 2009, we opened 17 newly developed self-storage facilities in the U.S. at a cost of approximately $142 million. Shurgard Europe has developed and opened 55 facilities since January 1, 2005 at a cost of approximately $426 million, and has two development projects under construction with total estimated costs of $24 million. Delays in the rent-up of newly developed storage space as a result of competition or other factors, including the slowdown in the general economy which has negatively impacted storage demand, would adversely impact our profitability. If we or Shurgard Europe were to commence significant development of facilities, construction delays due to weather, unforeseen site conditions, personnel problems, and other factors, as well as cost overruns, would adversely affect our profitability. 

Property taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on investments. Each of our properties is subject to real property taxes. These real property taxes may increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. Recent local government shortfalls in tax revenue may cause pressure to increase tax rates or assessment levels. Such increases could adversely impact our profitability. 

13 

We must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures. All our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with related regulations (the “ADA”). The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. Various state laws impose similar requirements. A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state laws could result in government imposed fines on us and could award damages to individuals affected by the failure. In addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. Compliance with these requirements can require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. Failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. 

We incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. From time to time we must resolve tenant claims and employment-related claims by corporate level and field personnel. 

 Global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. 

There continues to be global economic uncertainty, elevated levels of unemployment, reduced levels of economic activity, and it is uncertain as to when economic conditions will improve. These negative economic conditions in the markets where we operate facilities, and other events or factors that adversely affect disposable incomes, have and are likely to continue to adversely affect our business. 

As a further result of the current global financial crisis, our ability to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates has been and may continue to be adversely affected by challenging credit market conditions. The issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. While we currently believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business as usual, long-term continued turbulence in the credit markets and in the national economy may adversely affect our access to capital and adversely impact earnings growth that might otherwise result from the acquisition and development of real estate facilities. 

We grow our business primarily through acquisitions of existing properties and are subject to risks related to acquisitions that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. 

We grow our business in large part through the acquisition of existing properties, including acquisitions of businesses owned by other storage operators. In addition to the general risks related to real estate described above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties, we are also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and the integration of acquired properties into our operations. 

Any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could negatively impact our financial results. If acquired facilities are not properly integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer. 

Any failure to successfully integrate acquired operations with our existing business could negatively impact our financial results. To fully realize any anticipated benefits from an acquisition, we must successfully complete the combination of the businesses of Public Storage and acquired properties in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized. It is possible that the integration process could result in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with tenants and employees or to achieve anticipated benefits, particularly with large acquisitions. 

Acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense. Facilities that we acquire are subject to property tax reappraisal, which can increase property tax expense. There is a degree of uncertainty involved in estimating the property tax expense of an acquired property. In future acquisitions of properties, if actual property tax expenses following reappraisal are significantly greater than we expected, our operating results could be negatively impacted. 

14 

As a result of our ownership of 49% of the international operations of Shurgard Europe with a book value of $272.3 million at December 31, 2009, and our loan to Shurgard Europe aggregating $561.7 million at December 31, 2009, we are exposed to additional risks related to international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results. 

We have limited experience in European operations, which may adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in Europe. In addition, European operations have specific inherent risks, including without limitation the following: 

  ·    currency risks, including currency fluctuations, which can impact the fair value of our $272.3 million book value equity investment in Shurgard Europe, as well as interest payments and the net proceeds to be received upon repayment of our loan to Shurgard Europe;     

  ·    • unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements;     

  ·    • potentially adverse tax burdens;     

  ·    • burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws;    

  ·    • the potential impact of collective bargaining;    

  ·    • obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash;     

  ·    • regional, national and local political uncertainty;     

  ·    • economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets;     

  ·    • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;     

  ·    • reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries;     

  ·    • inability to effectively control less than wholly-owned partnerships and joint ventures; and    

  ·    • the importance of local senior management and the potential negative ramifications of the departure of key executives.    

Based upon current market conditions and recent operating result trends of Shurgard Europe, the following specific risks apply with respect to our investment in, and loan to, Shurgard Europe: 

15 

  ·    We have an obligation to loan up to an additional €185 million ($265.2 million at December 31, 2009) to Shurgard Europe, and provide additional equity contributions of up to $66.4 million. We have a commitment, which expires March 31, 2010, to provide up to €185 million of additional loans to Shurgard Europe under the same terms as the existing loans, to fund the possible acquisition of Shurgard Europe’s joint venture partner’s interest in the joint ventures and/or repay Shurgard Europe’s pro-rata share of the joint venture debt. In addition, we are committed to provide up to $66.4 million of additional equity contributions to Shurgard Europe to fund certain other investing activities. While the acquisition of the joint venture partners’ interests are subject to our approval, Shurgard Europe has no obligation to acquire these interests, and any other investing activities generally require our approval, these commitments may require us to provide additional funds to Shurgard Europe in amounts or under terms that we may not have otherwise agreed to.    

  ·    Joint Ventures that Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in have significant refinancing requirements. Shurgard Europe’s two joint ventures collectively had approximately €224 million ($321 million) of outstanding debt payable to third parties at December 31, 2009. These loans are secured by the joint ventures’ respective facilities, and are not guaranteed by Public Storage, Shurgard Europe, or any third party. One of the joint venture loans, totaling €107 million ($153 million), is due May 2011 and the other joint venture loan, totaling €117 million ($168 million), is due in July 2010.    

If Shurgard Europe’s joint ventures were unable to refinance or otherwise repay these loans when due, it is our expectation that the loans would be repaid with each joint venture partner contributing their pro rata share towards repayment. Shurgard Europe’s pro rata share, in the aggregate, would be approximately €50 million ($72 million) which Shurgard Europe fund either from available cash on hand or equity contributions from Public Storage and our joint venture partner. Further, it is also possible that Shurgard Europe’s joint venture partner would be unable to contribute its pro rata share to repay the loans and may trigger, through its rights under the related partnership documents, the liquidation of the partnership, which could result in Shurgard Europe’s acquisition of its joint venture partner’s interest or the sale of the properties to third parties, with potential loss or reduction to our investment if the liquidation proceeds were not sufficient. If Shurgard Europe were to acquire its joint venture partner’s interest by March 31, 2010, it could borrow on the aforementioned €185 million loan commitment we have provided to fund the purchase of the joint venture partner’s interest and repayment of the loans. 

  ·    Shurgard Europe’s ability to refinance its $561.7 million loan from us, which is due in March 2013, may be limited if current market conditions persist. We have loaned Shurgard Europe €391.9 million ($561.7 million at December 31, 2009), and this loan is due in March 2013. If the currently constrained capital market and bank loan availability persists, it is likely that Shurgard Europe may be unable to refinance the entire loan. If Shurgard Europe is unable to obtain financing to raise funds to repay our loan, we may have to negotiate an equity or debt contribution by our joint venture partner to Shurgard Europe, extend the loan, or otherwise take steps under our lender rights. Any of these steps could negatively impact our investment and the liquidity of Shurgard Europe.    

  ·    Shurgard Europe’s operating trends are negative. Shurgard Europe’s same-store revenue is down 3.6% in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 2008 on a constant exchange rate basis. Shurgard Europe may have continued reductions in same-store revenues, which will adversely impact their operating results and, as a result, the value of our investment in Shurgard Europe. Such reductions may negatively impact Shurgard Europe’s liquidity and ability to repay its debt, including the debt owed to Public Storage, due to declining interest coverage ratios and other similar metrics upon which potential lenders typically base their lending decisions.    

We are subject to risks related to our ownership of assets in joint venture structures. 

In connection with our 2006 acquisition of Shurgard and the acquisition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe by an institutional investor on March 31, 2008, we have interests in several joint ventures. Joint ventures may present additional risks, including without limitation, the following: 

16 

  ·    Risks related to the financial strength, common business goals and strategies and cooperation of the venture partner.    

  ·    The inability to take some actions with respect to the joint venture activities that we may believe are favorable, if our joint venture partner does not agree.    

  ·    The risk that we could lose our REIT status based upon actions of the joint ventures if we are unable to effectively control these indirect investments.    

  ·    The risk that we may not control the legal entity that has title to the real estate.    

  ·    The risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders, or that lenders may view assets held in joint ventures as less favorable as collateral.    

  ·    The risk that the joint ventures could take actions which may negatively impact our preferred shares and debt ratings, to the extent that we could not prevent these actions.    

  ·    The risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that we would otherwise deem favorable, due to non-compete clauses in our joint venture arrangements.    

  ·    The risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with our joint venture partners.    

The Hughes Family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders.  

At December 31, 2009, B. Wayne Hughes, Chairman of the Board of Trustees and his family (the “Hughes Family”) owned approximately 17.3% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to own up to 47.66% of our outstanding common shares and also allows for cumulative voting in the election of trustees. Consequently, the Hughes Family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders. 

Certain provisions of Maryland law and in our declaration of trust and bylaws may prevent changes in control or otherwise discourage takeover attempts beneficial to shareholders. 

Certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. Currently, the Board has opted not to subject the Company to the statutory limitations of either the business combination provisions or the control share acquisitions provisions of Maryland law, but the Board may change this option as to either statute in the future. If the Board chooses to make them applicable to us, these provisions could delay, deter or prevent a transaction or change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of common shares or might otherwise be in their best interest. Similarly, (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the Board’s ability under Maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions without those decisions being subject to any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review, could have the same effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of the common shares or might otherwise be in common shareholders’ best interest. 

17 

To preserve our status as a REIT under the Code, our declaration of trust contains limitations on the number and value of shares of beneficial interest that any person may own. These ownership limitations generally limit the ability of a person, other than the Hughes Family (as defined in our declaration of trust) and other than “designated investment entities” (as defined in our declaration of trust), to own more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in each case, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, unless an exemption is granted by our board of trustees. These limitations could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. 

If we failed to qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends. 

Investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes. REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. As a REIT, we must distribute with respect to each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders (which may take into account certain dividends paid in the subsequent year). Other restrictions apply to our income and assets. Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing qualification of our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. 

For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and are unable to avail ourselves of relief provisions set forth in the Code, we would be subject to federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we make any distributions to our shareholders. Those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings. As a result, our failure to qualify as a REIT during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our shareholders. Furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we fail to qualify. 

We have also assumed, based on Shurgard Storage Center, Inc.’s public filings and due diligence performed in connection with our acquisition of Shurgard, that Shurgard qualified as a REIT through the date of the Shurgard Merger on August 22, 2006. However, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we generally would have succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities (including the significant tax liability that would have resulted from the deemed sale of assets by Shurgard to us as part of the Shurgard Merger). 

We may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. 

Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the Company have elected to be treated as “taxable REIT subsidiaries” of the Company for federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT subsidiary is taxable as a regular corporation and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us in excess of a certain amount. In addition, if we receive or accrue certain amounts and the underlying economic arrangements among our taxable REIT subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of amounts the Internal Revenue Service deems reasonable between unrelated parties. To the extent that the Company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. 

We have become increasingly dependent upon automated processes, telecommunications, and the Internet and are faced with system security risks. 

We have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes, and certain critical components of our operating systems are dependent upon third party providers. As a result, we could be severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack, or a circumstance that disrupted operations at our third party providers. Even though we believe we utilize appropriate duplication and back-up procedures, a significant outage in our third party providers could negatively impact our operations. In addition, a portion of our business operations are conducted over the Internet, increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system failures and disruptions of operations. Experienced computer programmers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Nearly half of our move-ins comes from sales channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or Internet). 

18 

 We have no interest in Canadian self-storage facilities owned by the Hughes Family. 

The Hughes Family has ownership interests in, and operates, 52 self-storage facilities in Canada under the name “Public Storage”, which name we license to the Hughes Family for use in Canada on a non-exclusive basis. We currently do not own any interests in these facilities nor do we own any facilities in Canada. We have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the self-storage facilities in Canada if the Hughes Family or the corporation agrees to sell them. However, we have no ownership interest in the operations of this corporation, have no right to acquire their stock or assets unless the Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit from the profits and increases in value of the Canadian self-storage facilities. Although we have no current plans to enter the Canadian self-storage market, if we choose to do so without acquiring the Hughes Family interests in their Canadian self-storage properties, our right to use the Public Storage name in Canada may be shared with the Hughes Family unless we are able to terminate the license agreement. 

Through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self-storage facilities in Canada in which the Hughes Family has ownership interests. We acquired the tenant insurance business on December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS Insurance Company, or PSICH. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, PSICH received $642,000 and $768,000, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the Canadian Facilities. Since PSICH’s right to provide tenant reinsurance to the Canadian Facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. 

We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. 

Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial statements. 

There can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as current federal legislative proposals to expand health care coverage costs or facilitate union activity or otherwise increase operating costs. 

Our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. 

We hold Limited Lines Self Storage Insurance Agent licenses from a number of individual state Departments of Insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. This state governmental supervision could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by increasing the costs of regulatory compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services we provide or the methods by which we provide products and services, or subjecting our businesses to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. Our continued ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self Storage Insurance Agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Furthermore, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. 

In all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. No assurances can be given that our businesses can continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in the past. For the year ended December 31, 2009, revenues from our tenant reinsurance business represented approximately 4% of our revenues. 

19 

Terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. 

Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S., the European Community, or their businesses or interests. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results. Further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. Such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall. In addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the U.S. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results. 

Developments in California may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. 

We are headquartered in, and approximately one-fifth of our properties in the U.S. are located in California. The state of California and many local jurisdictions are facing severe budgetary problems and deficits. Action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes on commercial properties, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed “Business Net Receipts Tax” or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, we could be adversely impacted by efforts to reenact legislation mandating medical insurance for employees of California businesses and members of their families. 

ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

Not applicable. 

20 

ITEM 2. Properties