ITEM 7.   Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. 

Forward Looking Statements: This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements in this document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements which may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "would," "should," "may," "estimates" and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause Public Storage's actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. As a result, you should not rely on any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements. All of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this document, except where expressly required by law. Accordingly, you should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements to anticipate future results. 

Factors and risks that may impact our future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (“SEC”). 

Critical Accounting Policies 

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP and our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The notes to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, primarily Note 2, summarize the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 

Management believes the following are critical accounting policies, the application of which has a material impact on the Company’s financial presentation. That is, they are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. 

Qualification as a REIT – Income Tax Expense: We believe that we have been organized and operated, and we intend to continue to operate, as a qualifying REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state laws. We also believe that Shurgard, prior to merging with us, qualified as a REIT. A REIT generally does not pay corporate level federal income taxes on its REIT taxable income that is distributed to its shareholders, and accordingly, we do not pay federal income tax on the share of our REIT taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders. 

We therefore do not estimate or accrue any federal income tax expense for income earned and distributed related to REIT operations. This estimate could be incorrect, because due to the complex nature of the REIT qualification requirements, the ongoing importance of factual determinations and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we cannot be assured that we actually have satisfied or will satisfy the requirements for taxation as a REIT for any particular taxable year. For any taxable year that we fail or have failed to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we made or make any distributions to our shareholders. Any resulting requirement to pay corporate income tax, including any applicable penalties or interest, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we also would not be eligible to elect REIT status for any taxable year prior to the fifth taxable year which begins after the first taxable year for which a REIT status was terminated. There can be no assurance that we would be entitled to any statutory relief. In addition, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we would succeed to significant tax liabilities. 

28 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: Substantially all of our assets consist of real estate which are long-lived assets. The evaluation of our long-lived assets for impairment includes determining whether indicators of impairment exist, which is a subjective process. When any indicators of impairment are found, the evaluation of such long-lived assets then entails projections of future operating cash flows, which also involves significant judgment. Future events, or facts and circumstances that currently exist, that we have not yet identified, could cause us to conclude in the future that our long-lived assets are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Estimated Useful Lives of Long-Lived Assets: Substantially all of our assets consist of depreciable or amortizable long-lived assets. We record depreciation and amortization expense with respect to these assets based upon their estimated useful lives. Any change in the estimated useful lives of those assets, caused by functional or economic obsolescence or other factors, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 

Accruals for Contingencies: We are exposed to business and legal liability risks with respect to events that have occurred, but in accordance with GAAP, we have not accrued for certain potential liabilities because the loss is either not probable or not estimable or because we are not aware of the event. Future events and the results of pending litigation could result in such potential losses becoming probable and estimable, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Significant unaccrued losses that we have determined are at least reasonably possible are described in Note 13 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. 

Accruals for Operating Expenses: Certain of our expenses are estimated based upon assumptions regarding past and future trends, such as losses for workers compensation and employee health plans, and estimated claims for our tenant reinsurance program. Our property tax expense, which as a real estate operator represents one of our largest expenses totaling approximately $150 million in the year ended December 31, 2009, has significant estimated components. Most notably, in certain jurisdictions we do not receive tax bills for the current fiscal year until after our earnings are finalized, and as a result, we must estimate tax expense based upon anticipated implementation of regulations and trends. If these estimates and assumptions were incorrect, our expenses could be misstated. 

Valuation of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations: We have estimated the fair value of real estate, intangible assets, debt, and the other assets and other liabilities acquired in business combinations, most notably the Shurgard Merger. We have acquired these assets, in certain cases, with non-cash assets, most notably the 38.9 million shares that we issued to the Shurgard shareholders. These estimates are based upon many assumptions, including interest rates, market values of land and buildings in the U.S. and Europe, estimated future cash flows from the tenant base in place at the time of the merger, and the recoverability of certain assets. We believe that the assumptions used were reasonable, however, these assumptions were subject to a significant degree of judgment, and others could use different assumptions and therefore come to materially different conclusions as to the estimated values. If estimated values had been different, our depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, gain on disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, investments in real estate entities, real estate, debt, and intangible assets could be materially different. 

Overview of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations 

Our principal business activities include the acquisition, development, ownership and operation of self-storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease, generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use. We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in the U.S., and we have a 49% interest in Shurgard Europe, which we believe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Europe.

29 

We currently operate within three reportable segments: (i) Domestic Self-Storage, (ii) Europe Self-Storage and (iii) Commercial. The Domestic Self-Storage segment comprises the direct and indirect ownership, development, and operation of storage facilities in the U.S. Our Europe Self-Storage segment comprises our equity interest in the self-storage operations in Europe through our 49% ownership in Shurgard Europe and its associated activities in seven countries in Western Europe. Our Commercial segment includes our commercial property operations, directly and through our 41% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), a publicly traded REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PSB” (as of December 31, 2009, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million rentable square feet of commercial space). See “Investment in PSB” under “Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities” below for information regarding transactions related to our investment in PSB recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009. Our other activities not allocated to any segment include (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage facilities, (ii) merchandise sales at our self-storage facilities and (iii) management of self-storage facilities owned by third-party owners and domestic facilities owned by the affiliated entities that are not consolidated. During 2009, we decided to terminate our containerized storage and truck rental operations. Accordingly, the related results of operations have been included in discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of income. 

Our self-storage facilities in the U.S. comprise approximately 93% of our operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, and represent the primary driver of growth in our net income and cash flows from operations. In addition, most of our ancillary revenues are derived at our self-storage facility locations, either from our existing self-storage customer base or from the customer traffic within our self-storage facilities. Accordingly, a large portion of management time and focus is placed upon maximizing revenues and effectively managing expenses in our self-storage facilities. 

The self-storage industry is subject to general economic conditions, particularly those that affect the disposable income and spending of consumers, as well as those that affect moving trends. Due to the recessionary pressures in the U.S. and Europe, demand for self-storage space was soft in 2009 and continues to be soft. As a result, we are experiencing downward pressure on occupancy levels, rental rates, and revenues in our self-storage facilities. 

An important determinant of our long-term growth is the expansion of our asset base and deployment of capital. Acquisitions of self-storage facilities have been minimal over the past two years as we continue to monitor seller expectations. However, we believe that there may be more opportunities to acquire facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes due. The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which could force a sale of the properties. It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders’ desire to extend loans rather than foreclose or accelerate. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities will materialize in the future. 

Historically we have developed and redeveloped self-storage facilities. Our development activities have substantially ceased due to the existing economic environment and our belief that our capital can be more effectively put to use in other ways. 

On February 12, 2009, we acquired $110.2 million (face amount) of our senior unsecured debt. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, we acquired $352.7 million (face amount) of our preferred shares and units on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions for an aggregate acquisition cost of $237.4 million. There could be opportunities for future acquisition of our own outstanding debt and equity securities, particularly if there were a return to the same acute turbulence in the credit and equity markets which occurred in late 2008 and early 2009. Any future such transactions will depend upon our evaluation of the return of such investments relative to our other investment alternatives. There can be no assurance that any future such transactions will occur or the potential yield on such transactions. 

We have $763.8 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2009, and continue to evaluate opportunities to effectively deploy this capital.

30 

Results of Operations 

Operating results for 2009 as compared to 2008: Net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $790.5 million compared to $973.9 million for the same period in 2008, representing a decrease of $183.4 million. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a gain of $344.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, (ii) a $37.9 million reduction in net operating income with respect to our Same Store Facilities described below, and (iii) an impairment charge included in discontinued operations with respect to intangible assets totaling $8.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2009, partially offset by (iv) a $49.9 million reduction in depreciation and amortization related to our domestic assets, primarily representing reduced intangible amortization, (v) a foreign exchange gain of $9.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to a loss of $25.4 million during the same period in 2008, (vi) a gain on disposition of $30.3 million related to an equity offering by PSB, and (vii) a reduction in general and administrative expenses due to $27.9 million in incentive compensation incurred in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe. 

Revenues for the Same Store Facilities decreased 3.2% or $46.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008, due to a 2.8% reduction in realized rent per occupied square foot, combined with a 0.9% reduction in average occupancies. Cost of operations for the Same Store Facilities decreased 1.8% or $8.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. Net operating income for our Same Store Facilities decreased 3.9% or $37.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. 

For the year ended December 31, 2009, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $586.0 million or $3.47 per common share on a diluted basis compared to $705.8 million or $4.18 per common share for the same period in 2008, representing a decrease of $119.8 million or $0.71 per common share on a diluted basis. These decreases are primarily due to the net impact of the factors described above, offset by a $44.4 million reduction in earnings allocated to our preferred unitholders and preferred shareholders in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008 associated with the redemption of preferred securities occurring in both periods. 

Operating results for 2008 as compared to 2007: Net income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $973.9 million compared to $487.1 million for the same period in 2007, representing an improvement of $486.8 million. This improvement is primarily due to a gain of $344.7 million recognized on the disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, improvements in net operating income with respect to our domestic self-storage facilities and a reduction in amortization of intangible assets, offset by a foreign currency exchange loss of $25.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to a foreign exchange gain of $58.4 million in 2007. 

Comparisons of our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 to the year ended December 31, 2007 are significantly impacted by the acquisition by an institutional investor of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, which resulted in the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe. Shurgard Europe’s revenues and expenses after March 31, 2008 are excluded from our statement of operations and, instead, our 49% equity share of Shurgard Europe’s operating results are included in the line item “equity in earnings of real estate entities” and we also record interest and other income with respect to (i) the interest received on our intercompany loan from Shurgard Europe and (ii) license fee income. 

For the year ended December 31, 2008, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $705.8 million or $4.18 per common share on a diluted basis compared to $199.0 million or $1.17 per common share for the same period in 2007, representing an increase of $506.8 million or $3.01 per common share on a diluted basis. These increases are primarily due to the net impact of the factors described above, partially offset by a $33.9 million reduction in earnings allocated to our preferred shareholders in the year ended December 31, 2008 associated with the repurchase of securities. 

31 

Real Estate Operations 

Self-Storage Operations: Our self-storage operations are by far the largest component of our operating activities, representing more than 90% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

To enhance year-over-year comparisons, the table that follows summarizes, and the ensuing discussion describes, the operating results of three groups of facilities that management analyzes: (i) the Same Store group, representing the facilities in the Domestic Self-Storage Segment that we have owned and have been operating on a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007, (ii) all other facilities in the Domestic Self-Storage Segment, which are primarily those consolidated facilities that we have not owned and operated at a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007 such as newly acquired, newly developed, or recently expanded facilities, and (iii) the facilities operated by Shurgard Europe which were deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

32 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

      (a)   Represents the results with respect to Shurgard Europe’s properties for the periods consolidated in our financial statements. As described in Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, effective March 31, 2008, we deconsolidated Shurgard Europe. See also “Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities – Investment in Shurgard Europe” for further analysis of the historical same store property operations of Shurgard Europe.    

      (b)   See “Net Operating Income or NOI” below.    

      (c)   Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the weighted average occupied square feet for period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due. Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move-ins for a period.    

  (d)    In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees.    

Net income with respect to our self-storage operations increased by $15.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009, when compared to the same period in 2008. This was due to a) declining amortization of tenant intangible assets, b) a 1.8% reduction in cost of operations for the Same Store facilities, and c) a $12.1 million increase in revenues with respect to the Other Facilities, offset by d) a 3.2% decrease in revenues for our Same Store facilities and e) the deconsolidation of the facilities owned by Shurgard Europe effective April 1, 2008. Net income with respect to our self-storage operations increased by $186.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, when compared to 2007 due to decreased amortization of tenant intangible assets and increased revenues for the Same Store facilities and the Other Facilities, offset partially by the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe effective April 1, 2008. 

33 

Net Operating Income 

We refer herein to net operating income (“NOI”) of our self-storage facilities, which is a non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense. Although depreciation and amortization are a component of GAAP net income, we believe that NOI is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in making decisions with respect to capital allocations, property performance, and comparing period-to-period and market-to-market property operating results. In addition, we believe the investment community utilizes NOI in determining operating performance and real estate values, and does not consider depreciation expense as it is based upon historical cost. NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after depreciation and amortization or net income in evaluating our operating results. The following reconciles NOI generated by our self-storage and Shurgard Europe segments to our consolidated net income in our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

34 

Same Store Facilities 

The “Same Store Facilities” represents those 1,899 facilities that we have owned, and have been operated on a stabilized basis, since January 1, 2007 and therefore provide meaningful comparisons for 2007, 2008, and 2009. The following table summarizes the historical operating results of these 1,899 facilities (117.5 million net rentable square feet) that represent approximately 93% of the aggregate net rentable square feet of our U.S. consolidated self-storage portfolio at December 31, 2009. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

      (a)   Revenues and cost of operations do not include ancillary revenues and expenses generated at the facilities with respect to tenant reinsurance, retail sales and truck rentals. “Other costs of management” included in cost of operations principally represents all the indirect costs incurred in the operations of the facilities. Indirect costs principally include supervisory costs and corporate overhead cost incurred to support the operating activities of the facilities.    

(b) See “Net Operating Income” above. 

      (c)   Depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 decreased, as compared to the year prior, primarily due to a reduction in amortization expense related to intangible assets that we obtained in the Shurgard Merger.    

35 

(d) Square foot occupancies represent weighted average occupancy levels over the entire period. 

  (e)    Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the weighted average occupied square feet for the period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due.    

  (f)    Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue, by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move-ins for a period.    

  (g)    Realized annual rent per available foot or “REVPAF” is computed by dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the total available net rentable square feet for the period.    

  (h)    In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees.    

Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities decreased approximately 3.2% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. This decrease was primarily caused by lower rental income as a result of lower average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot combined with lower average occupancy levels. For 2009, average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot were 2.8% lower and average occupancy levels were 0.9% lower as compared to the same period in 2008, resulting in a 3.7% reduction in rental income. 

Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities increased approximately 2.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. This increase was primarily caused by higher rental income as a result of higher average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot combined with higher average occupancy levels. For 2008, average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot were 2.4% higher and average occupancy levels were 0.2% higher as compared to the same period in 2008, resulting in a 2.7% increase in rental income. 

Our operating strategy is to maintain occupancy levels for our Same Store facilities at approximately 90% throughout the year. In order to achieve this strategy, we adjusted rental rates and promotional discounts offered to new tenants as well as the frequency of television advertising, increasing or decreasing each, depending on traffic patterns of new tenants renting space offset by existing tenants vacating. We experience seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. Consequently, rates charged new tenants are typically higher in the summer months than in the winter months. 

Over the past two years, demand for self-storage space has been negatively impacted by recessionary pressures, including increased unemployment, reduced housing sales, and reduced moving activity, in each of the markets in which we operate. 

As indicated in the table below, during the first three quarters of 2008, we generated relatively strong year-over-year revenue growth. Beginning in September 2008, we began to experience a notable decline in year-over-year move-ins that continued through October 2008, which we believe reflected general economic conditions. To offset the decline in new rentals, we significantly reduced rental rates, increased promotional discounts to new incoming tenants, and increased marketing efforts. We believe these actions have stabilized move-in volumes on a year-over-year basis; however, we have not yet been able to restore rental rates to the levels experienced in the prior year. We believe overall demand for self-storage space in virtually all of our markets in which we operate has decreased due to current economic conditions, and coupled with an increase in the number of self-storage operators over the past 10 years, will continue to foster a very difficult operating environment, at least in the near term. In addition, increased move-out activity beginning in August 2008 exacerbated the downward pressure on occupancy levels created by reduced demand. In March 2009, the increase in move-out activity began to subside to more normalized levels.

36 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Based upon our evaluation of certain comparative key operating metrics as of December 31, 2009, we believe that revenue for the three months ending March 31, 2010 will be lower than the same period in 2009. Our operating strategy will be to continue to focus on maintaining occupancy levels by adjusting rental rates, promotional discounts and marketing activities. It is unclear to us how much the above mentioned factors will impact our revenues beyond the first quarter of 2010. 

From a geographic standpoint, we are experiencing the greatest year-over-year revenue declines in our Southeast markets, located in North and South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, as well as the West Coast, which includes Seattle, Portland, San Francisco and Los Angeles. See Analysis of Regional Trends table that follows. 

Cost of operations (excluding depreciation and amortization) decreased by 1.8% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and increased by 0.7% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 was due to reduced utilities, repairs and maintenance, telephone reservation center, property insurance and other cost of management which were offset in part by increases in property taxes and other advertising and promotion expenses. The small increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 was due primarily to higher property tax and utilities expenses which were partially offset by lower property insurance expense. 

Property tax expense increased 2.9% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and 2.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007. These increases are primarily due to increases in assessments of property values and to a lesser degree increases in tax rates. We expect property tax expense growth of approximately 3.5% in 2010. 

Direct property payroll expense was flat in 2009 as compared to 2008 and increased by 1.2% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The increase in 2008 reflects higher hours incurred due to adjustments in staffing levels, offset by lower incentive pay and stagnant growth in average wage rates. For 2010, we expect moderate growth trends in payroll. 

Media advertising for the Same Store Facilities was flat in 2009 as compared to 2008 and decreased 5.1% in 2008 as compared to 2007. Media advertising primarily includes the cost of advertising on television and will vary depending on a number of factors, including our occupancy levels and demand. Other advertising and promotion is comprised principally of yellow page and internet advertising, which increased 10.1% during 2009 as compared to 2008, and decreased 2.9% during 2008 as compared to 2007. Our future spending on yellow page, media, and internet advertising expenditures will be driven in part by demand for our self-storage spaces, our current occupancy levels, and the relative efficacy of each type of advertising. Media advertising in particular can be volatile and increase or decrease significantly in the short-term. 

37 

Utility expenses decreased 4.9% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and increased 3.8% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The increase in 2008 was due primarily to higher electrical costs, which we believe in part was caused by rapid increase in energy prices, and in particular oil, used by local utility companies to produce electricity during 2008. Similarly, the decrease utility expense experienced in 2009, was due primarily to reduced year-over-year energy prices. It is difficult to estimate future utility cost levels because utility costs are dependent upon changes in demand driven by weather and temperature, as well as fuel prices, both of which are volatile and not predictable. 

Repairs and maintenance expenditures decreased 10.2% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 1.5% in 2008 as compared to 2007. Repairs and maintenance expenditures are dependent upon several factors, such as weather, the timing of periodic needs throughout our portfolio, inflation, and random events and accordingly are difficult to project from year to year. Due to severe weather, we expect snow removal expenses to be approximately $2 million higher in the three months ending March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. However, we expect overall repairs and maintenance expenditures to grow moderately in 2010. 

Telephone reservation center costs decreased 12.2% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and were flat in 2008 compared to 2007. The reduction in 2009 was primarily due to lower call volumes, resulting in less staffing hours, as well as a shift from our California to our Arizona call center, resulting in lower average compensation rates. We expect future increases in our telephone reservation center to be based primarily upon general inflation. 

Insurance expense decreased 14.3% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 15.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007. These declines reflect significant decreases in property insurance resulting primarily from the softer insurance markets as lack of hurricane activity and additional competition from insurance providers has benefited us. We expect insurance expense to be down slightly in 2010 as compared to 2009. 

38 

The following table summarizes selected quarterly financial data with respect to the Same Store Facilities: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

39 

Analysis of Regional Trends 

The following table sets forth regional trends in our Same Store Facilities: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

40 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    See “Same Store Facilities” table above for further information regarding these measures, which represent or are derived from non-GAAP measures.    

We believe that our geographic diversification and scale provide some insulation from localized economic effects and add to the stability of our cash flows. It is difficult to predict localized trends in short-term self-storage demand and operating results. We believe that each market has been negatively impacted to some degree by general economic trends and may continue to experience negative operating trends until such time that general economic trends improve. 

41 

Other Facilities 

In addition to the Same Store facilities, at December 31, 2009, we had an additional 92 self-storage facilities. These facilities include recently acquired facilities, recently developed facilities and facilities that were recently expanded by adding additional storage units. In general, these facilities are not stabilized with respect to occupancies or rental rates. As a result of the fill-up process and timing of when the facilities were put into place, year-over-year changes can be significant. 

Rental income, cost of operations, depreciation, net operating income, weighted average square foot occupancies and realized rents per square foot in the table above represent the operating results following the date each particular facility began to be included in our consolidated operating results, and in the case of acquired facilities, do not include any operating results prior to our acquisition of these facilities. 

In 2009, we completed one newly developed facility with 64,000 net rentable square feet at a total cost of $11.9 million and four expansion projects to existing real estate facilities (76,000 net rentable square feet) for an aggregate cost of $19.1 million, and did not acquire any new properties. 

Our acquisitions consist of facilities that have been operating for a number of years as well as newly constructed facilities that were in the process of filling up to stabilized occupancy levels. In either case, we have been able to leverage off of our operating strategies and improve the occupancy levels of the facilities or, with respect to the newly developed facilities, we have been able to accelerate the fill-up pace. 

We expect that the Other Facilities will continue to provide earnings growth during 2010, though at a lower level of growth than that experienced in 2009 and 2008, as these facilities reach stabilization. However, the Other Facilities are subject to the same occupancy and rate pressures that our Same Store facilities are facing, and accordingly the pace at which these facilities reach stabilization, and the ultimate level of cash flows to be reached upon stabilization, may be negatively impacted by the current economic trends. 

Because of reduced self-storage demand, and our belief that our capital could be put to use in a more advantageous manner, our development activities throughout 2009 have been nominal, and we have a nominal pipeline of new development at December 31, 2009. It is unclear when we might change our strategy with respect to development activities. 

We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities and capitalize on the overall fragmentation in the storage industry. We believe that there may be more opportunities for the acquisition of facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes due. The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether the banks and other lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which would force a sale of the properties of these distressed owners, rather than extending existing loans or waiving covenant violations. It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders’ desire to extend these loans rather than foreclose or accelerate. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities will materialize in the future. 

42 

Equity in earnings of real estate entities 

At December 31, 2009, we have equity investments in PSB, Shurgard Europe and five affiliated limited partnerships. Due to our limited ownership interest and limited control of these entities, we do not consolidate the accounts of these entities for financial reporting purposes, and account for such investments using the equity method. 

Equity in earnings of real estate entities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, consists of our pro-rata share of the net income of these Unconsolidated Entities based upon our ownership interest for the period. The following table sets forth the significant components of equity in earnings of real estate entities. Amounts with respect to PSB, Shurgard Europe, and Other Investments are included in our Commercial segment, Europe Self-Storage segment, and other items not allocated to segments, respectively, as described in Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)    These amounts represent our pro-rata share of the net operating income of the Unconsolidated Entities. See also “net operating income” above for a discussion of this non-GAAP measure.    

  (2)    “Other” reflects our share of general and administrative expense, interest expense, interest income, gains on sale of real estate assets, and other non-property; non-depreciation related operating results of these entities.    

  (3)    Includes our pro rata share of benefit totaling $16.3 million and $1.9 million from PSB’s preferred stock and preferred unit repurchases for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.    

Investment in PSB: At December 31, we have a 41% common equity interest in PSB (46% as of December 31, 2008), comprised of our ownership of 5,801,606 shares of PSB’s common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in PSB’s underlying operating partnership. The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common stock. Our ownership interest was reduced during 2009 as PSB sold 3,833,333 shares of its common stock, of which we purchased 383,333 shares or 10% of the shares issued. 

43 

At December 31 2009, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million rentable square feet of commercial space located in eight states. PSB also manages commercial space owned by the Company and affiliated entities at December 31, 2009 pursuant to property management agreements. 

Equity in earnings from PSB increased to $35,108,000 in 2009 as compared to $14,325,000 in 2008. This increase was primarily the result of recognizing our pro rata share, $16.3 million, of the benefit that PSB recognized during 2009 as a result of PSB’s preferred stock and preferred partnership unit repurchases combined with our $8.3 million pro rata share of reduced depreciation expense. These items were partially offset by our $7.5 million pro rata share of reduced property net operating income. The reduction in property net operating income is primarily the result of reduced property revenues at PSB’s facilities due to a 3.2% decline in the weighted average occupancy level for 2009 as compared to 2008. 

Our future equity income from PSB will be dependent entirely upon PSB’s operating results. Our investment in PSB provides us with some diversification into another asset type. We have no plans of disposing of our investment in PSB. PSB’s filings and selected financial information can be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission, and on its website, www.psbusinessparks.com. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information on PSB. 

Investment in Shurgard Europe: As described in Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, due to our March 31, 2008 disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe, beginning for periods after March 31, 2008 we no longer consolidate the revenues and expenses of Shurgard Europe on our consolidated statements of income, and our pro-rata share of the operating results of Shurgard Europe is included in “equity in earnings of real estate entities.” Selected financial data for Shurgard Europe for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is included in Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. 

We originally acquired our 100% interest in Shurgard Europe during our merger with Shurgard, which occurred in August 2006. Our primary objective for merging with Shurgard was to acquire Shurgard’s U.S. domestic assets which accounted for approximately 487 facilities in the U.S. as compared to 160 facilities in Europe at the time of the Shurgard Merger. Subsequent to the Shurgard Merger, management of Public Storage determined that it was in our best interests to reduce our investment in Shurgard Europe. There were many reasons for that determination, most relating to the fact that continued growth of Shurgard Europe would require a significant capital commitment. Movement of capital from Public Storage (in the U.S.) to various European countries would have exposed Public Storage to currency fluctuation risks and to potential tax burdens when Public Storage wished to repatriate its capital investment. Accordingly, in March 2008, we sold 51% of our ownership interest in Shurgard Europe, which helped to limit our capital requirements to continue to grow Shurgard Europe and to limit our exposure to other risks of owning operations in foreign countries. We do not intend to sell any of our remaining interest in Shurgard Europe. In the future, we expect Shurgard Europe to function as a stand-alone entity and to fund its capital requirements primarily with its retained operating cash flow, bank borrowings and, to the extent available, public or private equity. 

This transaction has resulted in the operations of Shurgard Europe having a less significant impact on our operating results, as we have a 49% interest and a loan receivable from Shurgard Europe upon which we receive interest income, rather than the 100% equity interest in Shurgard Europe we held prior to the transaction. Our future operating results will also be impacted by the ultimate returns realized on the reinvestment of the cash proceeds received in connection with this transaction, including the proceeds from the collection of the loan receivable and the timing thereof. 

At December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe’s operations comprise 187 facilities with an aggregate of approximately 10 million net rentable square feet. The portfolio consists of 115 wholly owned facilities and 72 facilities owned by two joint venture partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest. 

Our equity in earnings from Shurgard Europe is comprised of our 49% equity share in the net income of Shurgard Europe, as well as 49% of the interest earned with respect to the note receivable from Shurgard Europe, as well as 49% of trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe, which are reclassified in consolidation from interest income to equity in earnings of Shurgard Europe. The amount of interest reclassified was approximately $23.9 million in 2009, $17.8 million in 2008 and none in 2007. 

44 

Equity in earnings from our investment in Shurgard Europe for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $16,269,000 compared to $4,134,000 for the same period in 2008, representing an increase of $12,135,000. This increase includes i) a reduction in our pro-rata share of Shurgard Europe’s depreciation expense, primarily due to declines in tenant intangible amortization, ii) our pro-rata share of a reduction in Shurgard Europe’s third party interest expense (joint ventures in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest recently refinanced their outstanding debt at substantially lower interest rates), (iii) the timing of our disposition of the 51% interest in Shurgard Europe as equity in earnings for 2008 only includes amounts for the period of April 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 while the 2009 includes amounts for the entire year, offset by iv) our pro-rata share of Shurgard Europe’s same-store properties’ decline in net operating income, on a constant exchange rate basis, and (v) the effect of a change in the average exchange rate of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar to 1.393 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 1.470 for the same period in 2008. 

We evaluate the performance metrics of Shurgard Europe’s Same Store Facilities in order to evaluate the performance of our investment in Shurgard Europe, because the Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities represent the primary driver of our pro-rata share of earnings of Shurgard Europe. 

The Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities represent those 94 facilities that are stabilized and owned since January 1, 2007 and therefore provide meaningful comparisons for 2007, 2008, and 2009. The following table reflects the operating results of these 94 facilities. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

45 

  (a)    In order to isolate changes in the underlying operations from the impact of exchange rates, the amounts in this table are presented on a constant exchange rate basis. The amounts for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 have been restated using the actual exchange rate for 2009. The exchange rate for the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar averaged 1.393 during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 1.470 and 1.370 for the same periods in 2008 and 2007, respectively.    

  (b)    Only the amounts for periods before March 31, 2008 are included in our consolidated financial statements. We include our pro-rata share of these operating results for periods after March 31, 2008 in Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities. The amounts incorporated in our financial statements, either consolidated or equity method amounts, are based upon the actual weighted average exchange rates for each period.    

  (c)    We present net operating income “NOI” of the Shurgard Europe Same-Store Facilities, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense. Although depreciation and amortization is a component of GAAP net income, we believe that NOI is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in making decisions with respect to capital allocations, segment performance, and comparing period-to-period and market-to-market property operating results. In addition, the investment community utilizes NOI in determining real estate values, and does not consider depreciation expense as it is based upon historical cost. NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after depreciation and amortization in evaluating our operating results.    

  (d)    Square foot occupancies represent weighted average occupancy levels over the entire period.    

  (e)    Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income before late charges and administrative fees by the weighted average occupied square feet for the period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due.    

  (f)    Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue, by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move-ins for a period.    

  (g)    Realized annual rent per available foot or “REVPAF” is computed by dividing rental income before late charges and administrative fees by the total available net rentable square feet for the period.    

  (h)    In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees.    

Shurgard Europe’s operations have been impacted by the same trends in self-storage demand that our domestic facilities are facing. However, trends in Europe improved somewhat in the last half of 2009, with year-over-year revenue declines of 1.9% in the quarter ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 3.2% in the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and 4.7% in the first half of 2009. Despite the recent improved trends and reduced year-over year declines in revenues and net operating income, we expect continued year-over-year declines in revenues during at least the first quarter of 2010. 

Shurgard Europe, similar to our Domestic Self-Storage segment, has a nominal development pipeline. Accordingly, at least in the short-term, we do not expect any significant impact to our earnings from Shurgard Europe’s development activities. 

In Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, we disclose Shurgard Europe’s consolidated operating results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Shurgard Europe’s condensed consolidated operating results include additional facilities that are not Europe Same Store Facilities, and are based upon historical exchange rates rather than constant exchange rates for each of the respective periods. 

Other Investments: The “Other Investments” at December 31, 2009 are comprised primarily of our equity in earnings from various limited partnerships that collectively own 19 self-storage facilities. Amounts included in the tables above also include our equity in earnings with respect to three facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities, until we acquired the remaining interest we did not own in these entities during 2008, and commenced consolidating these facilities. Our future earnings with respect to the Other Investments will be dependent upon the operating results of the facilities that these entities own. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for the operating results of these 19 facilities under the “Other Investments.” 

46 

Ancillary Operations 

Ancillary revenues and expenses include amounts associated with (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage facilities in the U.S., (ii) merchandise sales in the U.S., (iii) commercial property operations, (iv) merchandise sales and tenant reinsurance operations conducted by Shurgard Europe, and (v) management of facilities for third parties and facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities. 

Commercial property operations are included in our Commercial segment, and the merchandise and tenant reinsurance operations conducted by Shurgard Europe are included in our Europe Self-Storage segment. All other ancillary revenues and costs of operations are not allocated to any segment. See Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our segments and for a reconciliation of these ancillary revenues and cost of operations to our net income. 

During 2009, we decided to discontinue the operations of our truck rental and containerized businesses. Accordingly, the revenues and expenses of these operations are included in discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 

The following table sets forth our ancillary operations as presented on our consolidated statements of income. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Tenant reinsurance operations: We reinsure policies offered through a non-affiliated insurance company against losses to goods stored by tenants, primarily in our domestic self-storage facilities. The revenues that we record are based upon premiums that we reinsure. Cost of operations primarily includes claims paid that are not covered by our outside third-party insurers, as well as claims adjustment expenses. Cost of operations includes reductions of $2.0 million and $5.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing adjustments to accounting estimates that are not expected to recur. 

47 

The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues over the past year was attributable to higher rates combined with an increase in the percentage of our existing tenants retaining such policies. Approximately 58% and 53% of our tenants had such policies at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe that the level of tenant reinsurance revenues in 2010 may not increase to the same degree as was experienced in 2009 as customer penetration reaches the percentage of tenants that could be expected to retain such policies. 

The future level of tenant reinsurance revenues is largely dependent upon the number of new tenants electing to purchase policies, the level of premiums charged for such insurance, and the number of tenants that continue participating in the insurance program. Future cost of operations will be dependent primarily upon the level of losses incurred, including the level of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, that occur and affect our properties thereby increasing tenant insurance claims. 

Commercial operations: We also operate commercial facilities, primarily small storefronts and office space located on or near our existing self-storage facilities that are rented to third parties. We do not expect any significant changes in revenues or profitability from our commercial operations. 

Merchandise sales and other: We sell locks, boxes, and packing supplies at the self-storage facilities that we operate. The primary factor impacting the level of merchandise sales is the level of customer traffic at our self-storage facilities, including the level of move-ins. In addition, to a much lesser extent, we also manage self-storage facilities within our existing management infrastructure, for third party owners as well as for the Unconsolidated Entities. 

Other Income and Expense Items 

Interest and other income: Interest and other income was $29,813,000 in 2009, $36,155,000 in 2008, and $11,417,000 in 2007. The decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 is principally due to lower interest income on our cash reserve balances, offset by higher interest income with respect to our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe (described below). Interest earned on our cash balances totaled $5.0 million in 2009 as compared to $17.7 million in 2008. This reduction was due primarily to significantly lower interest rates in 2009 as compared to 2008. We have $763.8 million in cash on hand at December 31, 2009 invested primarily in money-market funds. Future interest income will depend upon the level of interest rates and the timing of when the cash on hand is ultimately invested; however, based upon current interest rates on our outstanding money-market fund investments of approximately 0.2%, earned interest is expected to be minimal. 

We have a loan receivable, denominated in Euros, from Shurgard Europe totaling €391.9 million ($561.7 million) as of December 31, 2009. Effective October 31, 2009, we extended the maturity date to March 31, 2013, and the rate of interest increased from 7.5% to 9.0% per annum (effective November 1, 2009). In addition, we receive trademark license fees from Shurgard Europe. 

We recorded interest income with respect to this loan, representing 51% of the amount earned (the remaining 49% is recorded as additional equity in earnings) combined with 51% of the trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe, aggregating $24.8 million and $18.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. No interest income in connection with the loan or trademark fees was recorded prior to March 31, 2008, as any such income received was fully eliminated in consolidation until March 31, 2008. All other variances in interest income from our note receivable are attributable principally to changes in average exchange rates as well as the change in interest rate from 7.5% to 9.0% effective November 1, 2009. Future interest income recorded in connection with this loan will be dependent upon the average outstanding balance as well as the exchange rate of the Euro versus the U.S. Dollar. All such interest has been paid currently when due and we expect the interest to continue to be paid when due with Shurgard Europe’s operating cash flow. 

48 

Interest and other income increased in 2008 as compared to 2007 principally as a result of (i) higher average cash balances invested in interest bearing accounts and (ii) interest income with respect to our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe. 

Depreciation and amortization: Depreciation and amortization expense was $340,233,000, $411,981,000 and $619,598,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

The decreases in depreciation and amortization expense in 2009 as compared to 2008, and in 2008 as compared to 2007, are due principally to declines in amortization of tenant intangible assets that were acquired in connection with the 2006 Shurgard Merger. Amortization expense with respect to tenant intangible assets was $5,530,000 in 2009, $51,158,000 in 2008 and $247,844,000 in 2007. We expect minimal amortization expense for our existing intangibles during 2010, and future intangible amortization will be dependent upon our future level of acquisition of facilities with existing tenants in place. 

Effective March 31, 2008, depreciation and amortization ceased on the facilities owned by Shurgard Europe, which was deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008. Included in our depreciation and amortization related to Shurgard Europe’s facilities was $11,192,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and $52,460,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007. 

General and administrative expense: General and administrative expense was $35,735,000, $62,809,000, and $59,749,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. General and administrative expense principally consists of state income taxes, investor relations expenses, and corporate and executive salaries. In addition, general and administrative expenses includes expenses that vary depending on our activity levels in certain areas, such as overhead associated with the acquisition and development of real estate facilities, certain expenses related to capital raising and merger and acquisition activities, litigation expenditures, employee severance, share-based compensation, and incentive compensation. 

General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes $2,144,000 in ongoing general and administrative expense for Shurgard Europe incurred prior to March 31, 2008 and $27,900,000 in additional incentive compensation incurred related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe. General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes a) $10,691,000 related to Shurgard Europe’s ongoing operations, b) $9,600,000 in costs incurred by Shurgard Europe associated with a proposed terminated offering of shares in Shurgard Europe, c) $5,300,000 incurred in connection with the integration of Shurgard and Public Storage, and d) $2,000,000 in costs associated with reorganizing as a Maryland REIT. Following March 31, 2008, we record no further general and administrative expense incurred by Shurgard Europe’s ongoing operations. 

We expect ongoing general and administrative expense to approximate $8 million to $10 million per quarter. 

Interest expense: Interest expense was $29,916,000, $43,944,000 and $63,671,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decreases in interest expense in 2009 and 2008 are due primarily to the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe effective March 31, 2008, which incurred $6,892,000 and $22,242,000 in interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively. Interest expense was also reduced approximately $6 million in 2009 as compared to 2008 due to our early retirement in February 2009 of $110.2 million face amount of senior unsecured debt. See Note 6 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for a schedule of our notes payable balances, principal repayment requirements, and average interest rates. 

Capitalized interest expense totaled $718,000, $1,998,000 and $4,746,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, in connection with our development activities. 

Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss): Our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe is denominated in Euros and we have not entered into any hedged agreements to mitigate the impact of currency exchange fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro. As a result, the amount of U.S. Dollars we will receive on repayment will depend upon the currency exchange rates at that time. In each period where we expect repatriation of these funds within two years from period end, we record the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the loan balance from the beginning to the end of the period as a foreign currency gain or loss. We recorded a foreign exchange gain of $9,662,000, a loss of $25,362,000, and a gain of $58,444,000 in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, representing the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the loan due to changes in exchange rates from the beginning to the end of each respective period. The U.S. Dollar exchange rate relative to the Euro was approximately 1.433, 1.409, and 1.472 at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

49 

Future foreign exchange gains or losses will be dependent primarily upon the movement of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar, the amount owed from Shurgard Europe and our continued expectation with respect to repaying the loan. 

Discontinued Operations: During 2009, we discontinued operations in our truck rental and containerized storage businesses. In addition, we disposed of one self-storage facility and expect to dispose of one other in connection with condemnation proceedings. We reclassified all of the historical revenues and expenses of these operations from revenues and expenses, into “discontinued operations.” Included in discontinued operations in 2009 are $3.5 million in truck disposal expenses, an $8.2 million impairment charge on intangible assets incurred in connection with an eminent domain proceeding and $6.0 million of gains on the disposition of the self-storage facilities. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

We have $763.8 million of cash on hand at December 31, 2009, and believe that these funds, together with our internally generated net cash provided by our operating activities will continue to be sufficient to enable us to meet our operating expenses, debt service requirements, capital improvements and distributions requirements to our shareholders for the foreseeable future. 

Operating as a REIT, our ability to retain cash flow for reinvestment is restricted. In order for us to maintain our REIT status, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow must be distributed to our shareholders (see “Requirement to Pay Distributions” below). However, despite the significant distribution requirements, we have been able to retain a significant amount of our operating cash flow. The following table summarizes our ability to fund capital improvements to maintain our facilities, distributions to the noncontrolling interests, capital improvements to maintain our facilities, and distributions to our shareholders through the use of cash provided by operating activities. The remaining cash flow generated is available to make both scheduled and optional principal payments on debt and for reinvestment. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

50 

  (a)    Represents net cash provided by operating activities for each respective year as presented in our December 31, 2009 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.    

  (b)    We present cash from operations for principal payments on debt and reinvestment because we believe it is an important measure to evaluate our ongoing liquidity. This measure is not a substitute for cash flows from operations or net cash flows in evaluating our liquidity, ability to repay our debt, or to meet our distribution requirements.    

Our financial profile is characterized by a low level of debt-to-total-capitalization and a conservative dividend payout ratio with respect to the common shares. We expect to fund our long-term growth strategies and debt obligations with (i) cash on hand at December 31, 2009, (ii) internally generated retained cash flows, (iii) depending upon current market conditions, proceeds from the issuance of equity securities, and (iv) in the case of acquisitions of facilities, the assumption of existing debt. In general, our strategy is to continue to finance our growth with permanent capital, either retained operating cash flow or capital raised through the issuance of common or preferred equity to the extent that market conditions are favorable. 

Historically, we have funded substantially all of our acquisitions with permanent capital (both common and preferred securities). We have elected to use preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional debt. We have chosen this method of financing for the following reasons: (i) under the REIT structure, a significant amount of operating cash flow needs to be distributed to our shareholders, making it difficult to repay debt with operating cash flow alone, (ii) our perpetual preferred shares have no sinking fund requirement or maturity date and do not require redemption, all of which eliminate future refinancing risks, (iii) after the end of a non-call period, we have the option to redeem the preferred shares at any time, which enables us to refinance higher coupon preferred shares with new preferred shares at lower rates if appropriate, (iv) preferred shares do not contain covenants, thus allowing us to maintain significant financial flexibility, and (v) dividends on the preferred shares can be applied to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements. 

Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred shares are “Baa1” by Moody’s and “BBB” by Standard & Poor’s. 

Access to Additional Capital: In addition to cash on hand, we also have a revolving line of credit for borrowings up to $300 million. The line of credit expires in March 2012 and there were no outstanding borrowings on the line of credit at February 26, 2010. We seldom borrow on the line of credit and generally view borrowings on the line as a means to bridge capital needs until we are able to refinance them with permanent capital. 

Our ability to raise additional capital by issuing our common or preferred securities may not be a viable option at least in the near term due to unfavorable capital market conditions. We are not dependent, however, on raising capital to fund our operations or meet our obligations. 

Significant requirements on our liquidity and capital resources include: (i) funds to redeem shares of Equity Shares, Series A on April 15, 2010, (ii) debt service requirements, (iii) capital improvements to maintain our facilities, (iv) distribution requirements to our shareholders to maintain our REIT status, (v) acquisition and development commitments and (vi) commitments to provide funding to Shurgard Europe for certain investing and financing activities. 

Redemption of Equity Shares, Series A: On April 15, 2010, we will be redeeming all of our outstanding shares of Equity Shares, Series A at a cash redemption price of $24.50 per depositary share, or an aggregate of $205.2 million. Since the initial issuance of these securities, the annual distribution paid has been $2.45 per depository share, representing an implied yield of 10%. 

We plan on using cash on-hand to fund the aggregate redemption amount. 

51 

Debt Service Requirements: At December 31, 2009, outstanding debt totaled approximately $518.9 million. Approximate principal maturities are as follows (amounts in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Our current intention is to repay the debt at maturity and not seek to refinance debt maturities with additional debt. Alternatively, we may prepay debt and finance such prepayments with cash on-hand or proceeds from the issuance of preferred or common securities. 

On February 12, 2009, we acquired approximately $110 million face amount of our existing senior unsecured debt pursuant to a tender offer. The amount paid in the tender offer, approximately $110 million, was substantially less than what would have been paid if we were to repay this debt early subject to the prepayment premiums under the related debt agreements. 

Our portfolio of real estate facilities is substantially unencumbered. At December 31, 2009, we have 1,902 self-storage facilities with an aggregate net book value of approximately $7.0 billion that are unencumbered. 

Capital Improvement Requirements: During 2010, we expect to incur approximately $80 million for capital improvements. Capital improvements include major repairs or replacements to our facilities, which keep the facilities in good operating condition and maintain their visual appeal to the customer. Capital improvements do not include costs relating to the development or expansion of facilities that add additional net rentable square footage to our portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred capital improvements of approximately $62.4 million. 

Requirement to Pay Distributions: We have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, but no assurance can be given that we will at all times so qualify. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed, with certain limited exceptions, on the REIT taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders, provided that at least 90% of our taxable income is so distributed. We believe we have satisfied the REIT distribution requirement since 1981. Although we have not finalized our 2009 taxable income, we believe that the aggregate distributions paid in 2009 to our shareholders enable us to continue to meet our REIT distribution requirements. 

Aggregate distributions paid during 2009 totaled $624.7 million, consisting of the following (amounts in thousands: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

For 2010, we estimate the annual distribution requirements with respect to our (i) cumulative preferred shares outstanding at December 31, 2009, to be approximately $232.4 million, assuming no additional preferred share issuances or redemptions during 2010, and (ii) Equity Shares, Series A shares to be approximately $5.1 million, representing distributions through March 31, 2010. We will be redeeming these securities on April 15, 2010 and no further distributions will be paid for the period subsequent to March 31, 2010. 

52 

On February 26, 2010, our Board of Trustees declared a regular common dividend of $0.65 per common share, representing an increase of $0.10 per share (an 18% increase) from the previous quarter’s distribution. Our consistent, long-term dividend policy has been to only distribute our taxable income. Taxable income attributable to our common shareholders has increased due to recent purchases of preferred securities and equity stock, as well as reduced property depreciation, offset in part, by declines in operating income. Future changes in our dividend will be impacted by these same factors, as well as property acquisitions. Future distributions with respect to the common shares will continue to be determined based upon our REIT distribution requirements after taking into consideration distributions to the preferred shareholders and will be funded with operating cash flow. 

We are also obligated to pay distributions to non-controlling interests in our consolidated subsidiaries. During 2009, we paid distributions totaling $9.5 million with respect to preferred partnership units. We expect our annual distribution requirement based upon preferred partnership units outstanding at December 31, 2009, to be approximately $7.3 million on a go forward basis. In addition, we are required to pay distributions to other non-controlling interests in our consolidated subsidiaries based upon the operating cash flows of the respective subsidiary less any required reserves for capital expenditures or debt repayment. Such non-controlling interests received a total of $18,812,000 in 2009, $17,716,000 in 2008 and $20,047,000 in 2007, which represents our expectations with respect to future distribution levels. 

Acquisition and Development of Facilities: During 2010, we will continue to seek to acquire self-storage facilities from third parties; however, it is difficult to estimate the amount of third party acquisitions we will undertake. We have a minimal development pipeline at December 31, 2009 and have no current plan to expand our development activities. We plan on financing these activities with available cash on-hand, the assumption of existing debt, borrowings on our line of credit, or the net proceeds from the issuance of common or preferred securities. 

European Activities: We have a 49% interest in Shurgard Europe and our institutional partner owns the remaining 51% interest. As of December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe owed us €391.9 million ($561.7 million at December 31, 2009) pursuant to a loan agreement. Effective, October 31, 2009, the terms of the loan were modified to increase the interest rate from 7.5% to 9.0% per annum and the maturity date was extended from March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2013. All other material terms and covenants remain the same. The loan is unsecured and can be prepaid at anytime without penalty. 

Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in two joint ventures (First Shurgard and Second Shurgard). We are committed to provide additional financing to Shurgard Europe to facilitate the acquisition of its partner’s 80% interest in each of these two joint ventures. 

If Shurgard Europe acquires its partner’s 80% interest in either First Shurgard and Second Shurgard and is unable to obtain third-party financing to repay the existing loans of the joint ventures, we have agreed to provide additional loans to Shurgard Europe, under the same terms as the our €391.9 million loan, for up to €185 million ($265.2 million as of December 31, 2009). This commitment expires on March 31, 2010 and was originally for €305 million, but was reduced as the result of refinancing one of the joint venture loans. Shurgard Europe has no obligation to acquire these interests, and the acquisition of these interests is contingent on a number of items, including whether we assent to the acquisition. 

The two joint ventures collectively had approximately €224 million ($321 million) of outstanding debt payable to third parties at December 31, 2009, which is non-recourse to Shurgard Europe. One of the joint venture loans, totaling €107 million ($153 million), is due May 2011 and the other joint venture loan, totaling €117 million ($168 million), is due in July 2010. Both joint venture loans are secured by the joint ventures’ respective facilities, and are not guaranteed by Public Storage, Shurgard Europe or any third party. 

53 

We also committed to fund up to $88.2 million of additional equity contributions to Shurgard Europe to fund certain investing activities. Our remaining obligation under this commitment totaled $66.4 million at December 31, 2009. 

Redemption of Preferred Securities: As of December 31, 2009, several series of our preferred securities were redeemable at our option upon at least 30 days notice. These series have annual dividend rates ranging from 6.125% to 7.5% and have an aggregate redemption value of approximately $873 million. The timing of redemption of any of these series of preferred securities will depend upon many factors including when, or if, market conditions improve such that we can issue new preferred shares at a lower cost of capital than the shares that would be redeemed. 

Repurchases of Company’s Equity and Preferred Securities: Dislocations in capital markets have provided opportunities for the repurchase of our preferred and debt securities. During 2009, we repurchased certain of our Cumulative Preferred Shares in privately negotiated transactions with a liquidation value of $24.6 million for approximately $17.5 million, including accrued dividends, reducing our ongoing dividend requirement by approximately $1.8 million per year. Also during 2009, we repurchased certain of our Preferred Partnership Units in privately negotiated transactions with a carrying amount of $225 million for approximately $153 million, reducing our ongoing dividend requirement by approximately $14.4 million per year. 

Our Board of Trustees has authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. During 2009, we did not repurchase any of our common shares. From the inception of the repurchase program through February 26, 2010, we have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million. Future levels of common share repurchases will be dependent upon our available capital, investment alternatives, and the trading price of our common shares. 

These acquisitions were funded with cash on hand. We continue to monitor the existing trading ranges of all our outstanding debt and equity securities for potential opportunities. 

Contractual Obligations 

Our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 and their impact on our cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending December 31 (amounts in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)    Amounts include principal and fixed-rate interest payments on our notes payable based on their contractual terms. See Note 6 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for additional information on our notes payable.    

  (2)    We lease land, equipment and office space under various operating leases. Certain leases are cancelable, however, significant penalties would be incurred upon cancellation. Amounts reflected above consider continuance of the lease without cancellation.    

       (3)   Includes contractual obligations for development and capital expenditures at December 31, 2009.    

54 

We have not included any additional funding requirements that we may be required to make to Shurgard Europe as a contractual obligation in the table above, since it is uncertain whether or not we will be required to fund any additional amounts and because such funding is subject to our assent. 

Subsequent to December 31, 2009, we called for redemption our Equity Shares, Series A. These shares will be redeemed on April 15, 2010 for an aggregate of $205.2 million or $24.50 per share. These amounts are not included in the table above as they were not an obligation at December 31, 2009. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: At December 31, 2009 we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined under Regulation S-K 303(a)(4) and the instructions thereto. 

55 

ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk