Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions) 

 General 

 During 2009, the Company continued to strengthen its financial performance through pricing discipline, continued growth of its esoteric testing, outcome improvement and companion diagnostics offerings, and expense control. 

 Effective January 1, 2007, the Company commenced its successful implementation of its ten-year agreement with United Healthcare Insurance Company (“UnitedHealthcare”) and became its exclusive national laboratory provider. During the first three years of the ten-year agreement, the Company committed to reimburse UnitedHealthcare up to $200.0 for transition costs related to developing expanded networks in defined markets during the first three years of the agreement. Since the inception of this agreement, approximately $108.7 of such transition payments were billed to the Company by UnitedHealthcare and approximately $102.8 had been remitted by the Company. Based on trend rates of the transition payment amounts billed by UnitedHealthcare during 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company believes that its total reimbursement commitment under this agreement will be approximately $125.6 and that the final invoices for these payments will be processed over the first two quarters of 2010. The Company is amortizing the total estimated transition costs over the life of the contract. 

 Effective January 1, 2008 the Company acquired additional partnership units in its Ontario, Canada (“Ontario”) joint venture for approximately $140.9 in cash (net of cash acquired), bringing the Company’s percentage interest owned to 85.6%. Concurrent with this acquisition, the terms of the joint venture’s partnership agreement were amended. Based upon the amended terms of this agreement, the Company began including the consolidated operating results, financial position and cash flows of the Ontario joint venture in the Company’s consolidated financial statements on January 1, 2008. In December 2009, the Company received notification from the holders of the noncontrolling interest in the Ontario joint venture that they intend to put their remaining partnership units to the Company in accordance with the terms of the joint venture’s partnership agreement. These units were acquired on February 8, 2010 for CN$147.8. On February 17, 2010, the Company completed a transaction to sell the units acquired from the previous noncontrolling interest holder to a new Canadian partner for the same price. Upon the completion of these two transactions, the Company’s financial ownership percentage in the joint venture partnership remained unchanged at 85.6%. Concurrent with the sale to the new partner, the partnership agreement for the Ontario Canada joint venture was amended and restated with substantially the same terms as the previous agreement. The contractual value of the put, in excess of the current noncontrolling interest of $23.5, totaled $118.9 at December 31, 2009. 

Seasonality 

 The majority of the Company’s testing volume is dependent on patient visits to doctor’s offices and other providers of health care. Volume of testing generally declines during the year-end holiday periods and other major holidays. In addition, volume declines due to inclement weather may reduce net revenues and cash flows. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year. 

Results of Operations (amounts in millions except Revenue Per Requsition info) 

Years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 

Net Sales 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

39 

Index  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The increase in net sales for the three years ended December 31, 2009 has been driven primarily by growth in the Company’s managed care business, increased revenue from third parties (Medicare and Medicaid), the Company’s continued shift in test mix to higher priced genomic and esoteric tests and the impact of acquisitions. Managed care and third party revenue as a percentage of net sales for routine, genomic and estoteric testing increased from 64.4% in 2007 to 65.3% in 2009. Genomic and esoteric testing volume as a percentage of volume for routine, genomic and esoteric testing increased from 20.4% in 2007 to 23.3% in 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded a $7.5 cumulative revenue adjustment relating to certain historic overpayments made by Medicare for claims submitted by a subsidiary of the Company. Net sales of the Ontario joint venture were $247.5 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 compared to $249.0 in the corresponding 2008 period, a decrease of $1.5, or 0.6%. The decrease in net sales for the Ontario joint venture was due to the exchange rate impact of a stronger U.S. dollar in 2009 as compared with 2008. In Canadian dollars, net sales of the Ontario joint venture increased by CN$16.9, or 6.4%. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cost of sales (primarily laboratory and distribution costs) has increased over the three year period ended December 31, 2009 primarily due to growth in the Company’s Managed Care and third party (Medicare and Medicaid) business, the continued shift in test mix to higher cost genomic and esoteric testing and the impact of acquisitions. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales has decreased during the three year period ended December 31, 2009 from 58.4% in 2008 and 2007 to 58.0% in 2009. The decrease in cost of sales from 2008 to 2009 as a percentage of net sales is primarily due to operating efficiencies and effective expense controls coupled with the growth of revenue per requisition. The increase in cost of sales from 2007 to 2008 is primarily related to the consolidation of the Ontario joint venture effective January 1, 2008. Labor and testing supplies comprise over 75% of the Company’s cost of sales. 

Selling, General and Adminstrative Expenses 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Total selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) as a percentage of sales over the three year period ended December 31, 2009 have ranged from 19.9% to 20.8%. Bad debt expense decreased to 5.3% of net sales in 2009 as compared with 6.2% in 2008 primarily due to the increase in the second quarter of 2008 of $45.0 in the Company’s provision for doubtful accounts. The Company’s estimate of the allowance for doubtful accounts was increased in 2008 due to the impact of the economy, higher 

40 

Index  

patient deductibles and copayments, and acquisitions on the collectibility of accounts receivable balances. In 2009, SG&A includes acquisition related costs (primarily legal and other professional services) of $7.7, of which $2.7 relates directly to the Monogram acquisition. Monogram’s incremental SG&A (primarily personnel costs and research and development expenses) totaled $15.7 in 2009. As a result of changes to the Company’s defined benefit retirement plan and its PEP which were adopted in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company recognized a net curtailment charge of $2.8 due to remeasurement of the PEP obligation at December 31, 2009 and the acceleration of unrecognized prior service for that plan. 

 From 2007 to 2008, the increase in SG&A as a percentage of net sales was primarly due to the increase in the second quarter of 2008 of $45.0 in the Company’s provision for doubtful accounts. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company also recorded charges of $3.7 related to the acceleration of the recognition of stock compensation and certain defined benefit plan obligations due to the retirement of the Company’s Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs which was effective December 31, 2008. The remaining increase in SG&A from 2007 to 2008 was primarily related to the consolidation of the Ontario joint venture effective January 1, 2008. 

Amortization of Intangibles and Other Assets 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets over the three year period ended December 31, 2009 primarily reflects certain acquisitions closed during 2009 and 2008. 

Restructuring and Other Special Charges 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 During 2009, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $13.5 primarily related to the closing of redundant and underutilized facilities. The majority of these costs related to severance and other employee costs and contractual obligations associated with leased facilities and other facility related costs. Of this amount, $10.5 related to severance and other employee costs for employees primarily in the affected facilities, and $12.5 related to contractual obligations associated with leased facilities and other facility related costs. The Company also reduced its prior restructuring accruals by $9.5, comprised of $7.3 of previously recorded facility costs and $2.2 of employee severance benefits as a result of incurring less cost than planned on those restructuring initiatives primarily resulting from favorable settlements on lease buyouts and severance payments that were not required to achieve the planned reduction in work force. These restructuring initiatives are expected to provide annualized cost savings of approximately $24.0. 

 During 2008, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $32.4 primarily related to work force reductions and the closing of redundant and underutilized facilities. Of this amount, $20.9 related to severance and other employee costs in connection with the general work force reductions and $13.4 related to contractual obligations associated with leased facilities and equipment. The Company also recorded a credit of $1.9, comprised of $1.2 of previously recorded facility costs and $0.7 of employee severance benefits relating to changes in cost estimates accrued in prior periods. 

 During the third quarter of 2008, the Company also recorded a special charge of $5.5 related to estimated uncollectible amounts primarily owed by patients in the areas of the Gulf Coast severely impacted by hurricanes similar to losses incurred during the 2005 hurricane season. 

 During 2007, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $50.6 primarily related to reductions in work force and consolidation of redundant and underutilized facilities. Of this amount, $24.8 related to employee severance benefits for employees primarily in management, administrative, technical, service 

41 

Index  

and support functions and $19.4 related to contractual obligations and other costs associated with the closure of facilities. The charges also included a write-off of approximately $6.5 of accounts receivable balances remaining on a subsidiary’s billing system that was abandoned during the year and $0.9 related to settlement of a preacquisition employment liability. The Company also recorded a credit of $1.0, comprised of $0.7 of previously recorded facility costs and $0.3 of employee severance benefits. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The decrease in interest expense for 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily driven by lower average borrowings outstanding in 2009 due to principal payments on the Term Loan Facility and the redemption of approximately 50% of the zero-coupon subordinated notes in the second quarter of 2009. Also, the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes did not accrue contingent cash interest for the period March 12, 2009 through December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense for 2008 as compared to 2007 was primarily due to borrowings outstanding under the Term Loan Facility since October 2007 and the Revolving Facility that totaled $475.0 and $70.8, respectively, at December 31, 2008. 

Income from Joint Venture Partnerships 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Income from investments in joint venture partnerships represents the Company’s ownership share in joint venture partnerships. During 2007, a significant portion of this income was derived from investments in Ontario and Alberta, Canada, and was earned in Canadian dollars. Effective January 1, 2008, the income from the Ontario operation is included in the consolidated operating results of the Company, which is the primary reason for the lower income from investments in joint venture partnerships in 2009 and 2008 as compared with 2007. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The effective tax rate for 2009 was favorably impacted by adjustments of $21.5 relating to the resolution of certain state tax issues under audit, as well as the realization of foreign tax credits. The effective tax rate for 2008 was favorably impacted by the fifth protocol amending the existing tax treaty with Canada entered into force December 15, 2008. A net reduction of $7.1 of the Company’s income tax expense was recorded to reflect the impact of amending prior period income tax returns as a result of this treaty change. 

Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position 

 The Company’s strong cash-generating capability and financial condition typically have provided ready access to capital markets. The Company’s principal source of liquidity is operating cash flow. This cash-generating capability is one of the Company’s fundamental strengths and provides substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. In addition, the Company has senior unsecured credit facilities that are further discussed in "Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements." 

Operating Activities 

 In 2009, the Company’s operations provided $862.4 of cash, net of $28.4 in transition payments to UnitedHeathcare and $54.8 in contributions to the Company’s defined benefit retirement plan (the “Company Plan”), reflecting the Company’s solid business results. The increase in the Company’s cash flow from operations primarily resulted from improved cash collections. The Company continued 

42 

Index  

to focus on efforts to increase cash collections from all payers, as well as on-going improvements to the claim submission processes. 

 The Company made contributions to the Company Plan of $54.8, $0.0 and $0.0 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In October 2009, the Company received approval from its Board of Directors to freeze any additional service-based credits for any years of service after December 31, 2009 on the Company Plan and the PEP. Both plans will be closed to new entrants. Current participants in the Company Plan and the PEP will no longer earn service-based credits, but will continue to earn interest credits. In addition, effective January 1, 2010, all employees eligible for the defined contribution retirement plan (the “401K Plan”) will receive a minimum 3% non-elective contribution (“NEC”). The NEC replaces the Company match, which will be discontinued. Employees are not required to make a contribution to the 401K Plan to receive the NEC. The NEC will be non-forfeitable and vests immediately. The 401K Plan also provides discretionary contributions of 1% to 3% of pay for eligible employees based on service. 

 As a result of the changes to the Company Plan and PEP, which were adopted in the fourth quarter of 2009, projected pension expense for these plans is expected to decrease from $36.6 in 2009 to $10.4 in 2010. In addition, the Company does not plan to make contributions to the Company Plan during 2010. The implementation of the NEC is expected to increase the Company’s 401K costs and contributions by an additional $22.5 in 2010. See “Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements” for a further discussion of the Company’s pension and postretirement plans. 

Investing Activities 

 Capital expenditures were $114.7, $156.7 and $142.6 for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company expects capital expenditures of approximately $135.0 in 2010. The Company will continue to make important investments in its business, including information technology. Such expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations, as well as borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facilities as needed. 

 The Company remains committed to growing its business through strategic acquisitions and licensing agreements. The Company has invested a total of $779.7 over the past three years in strategic business acquisitions. These acquisitions have helped strengthen the Company’s geographic presence along with expanding capabilities in the specialty testing operations. The Company believes the acquisition market remains attractive, especially in light of recent credit market corrections, with a number of opportunities to strengthen its scientific capabilities, grow esoteric testing capabilities and increase presence in key geographic areas. 

 The Company has invested a total of $25.8 over the past three years in licensing new testing technologies (including approximately $24.3 estimated fair market value of technology acquired with the purchase of Monogram) and had $56.8 net book value of capitalized patents, licenses and technology at December 31, 2009. While the Company continues to believe its strategy of entering into licensing and technology distribution agreements with the developers of leading-edge technologies will provide future growth in revenues, there are certain risks associated with these investments. These risks include, but are not limited to, the failure of the licensed technology to gain broad acceptance in the marketplace and/or that insurance companies, managed care organizations, or Medicare and Medicaid will not approve reimbursement for these tests at a level commensurate with the costs of running the tests. Any or all of these circumstances could result in impairment in the value of the related capitalized licensing costs. 

Financing Activities 

 On October 26, 2007, the Company entered into senior unsecured credit facilities totaling $1,000.0. The credit facilities consist of a five-year Revolving Facility in the principal amount of $500.0 and a five-year, $500.0 Term Loan Facility. The balances outstanding on the Company’s Term Loan Facility at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $425.0 and $475.0, respectively. The balances outstanding on the Company’s Revolving Facility at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $75.0 and $70.8, respectively. The senior unsecured credit facilities bear interest at varying rates based upon LIBOR plus a percentage based on the Company’s credit rating with Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. 

43 

Index  

 The senior credit facilities contain certain debt covenants, which require that the Company maintain a leverage ratio of no more than 2.5 to 1.0 and an interest coverage ratio of at least 5.0 to 1.0. Both ratios are calculated in relation to EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization). The credit agreement allows payment of dividends provided that the Company is not in default (as defined in the agreement) and its leverage ratio is less than 2.0 to 1.0. The Company is in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2009. 

 On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. (“Lehman”), whose subsidiaries had a $28.0 commitment in the Company’s Revolving Facility, filed for bankruptcy. During the fourth quarter of 2009, another bank assumed Lehman’s commitment in the Company’s Revolving Facility. 

 On March 31, 2008, the Company entered into a three-year interest rate swap agreement to hedge variable interest rate risk on the Company’s variable interest rate term loan. Under the swap the Company will, on a quarterly basis, pay a fixed rate of interest (2.92%) and receive a variable rate of interest based on the three-month LIBOR rate on an amortizing notional amount of indebtedness equivalent to the term loan balance outstanding. The swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge. Accordingly, the Company recognizes the fair value of the swap in the consolidated balance sheet and any changes in the fair value are recorded as adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The fair value of the interest rate swap agreement is the estimated amount that the Company would pay or receive to terminate the swap agreement at the reporting date. The fair value of the swap was a liability of $10.6 and $13.5 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. 

 As of December 31, 2009, the interest rates on the Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Facility were 3.67% and 0.58%, respectively. 

 During 2009, the Company repurchased $273.5 of stock representing 3.9 shares. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had outstanding authorization from the Board of Directors to purchase approximately $71.8 of Company common stock. On February 11, 2010, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of $250.0 of additional shares of the Company’s common stock. 

 During the second quarter of 2009, the Company redeemed approximately $369.5 principal amount at maturity of its zero-coupon subordinated notes, equaling approximately 50% of the principal amount at maturity outstanding of the zero-coupon subordinated notes. The total cash used for these redemptions was $289.4. As a result of certain holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes electing to convert their notes, the Company also issued 0.4 additional shares of common stock and reversed approximately $11.3 of deferred tax liability to reflect the tax benefit realized upon issuance of these shares. 

 Credit Ratings 

 The Company’s debt ratings of Baa3 from Moody’s and BBB+ from Standard and Poor’s contribute to its ability to access capital markets. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

44 

Index  

  (a)  Contingent future licensing payments will be made if certain events take place, such as the launch of a specific test, the transfer of certain technology, and when specified revenue milestones are met.

  (b)  Holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes may require the Company to purchase in cash all or a portion of their notes on September 11, 2011 at $819.54 per note ($302.2 in the aggregate). Should the holders put the notes to the Company on that date, the Company believes that it will be able to satisfy this contingent obligation with cash on hand, borrowings on the revolving credit facility, and additional financing if necessary. As announced by the Company on January 5, 2010, holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes may choose to convert their notes during the first quarter of 2010 subject to terms as defined in the note agreement. See “Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information regarding the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes.

  (c)  The table does not include obligations under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, which are included in "Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements." Benefits under the Company's postretirement medical plan are made when claims are submitted for payment, the timing of which is not practicable to estimate.

  (d)  The table does not include the Company’s contingent obligation to reimburse up to $200.0 in transition costs incurred during the first three years of the UnitedHealthcare contract. The Company anticipates that it has approximately $22.8 remaining to be paid out on this contingent obligation.

  (e)  The table does not include the Company’s reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. The Company had a $73.7 and $86.7 reserve for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which is included in “Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Substantially all of these tax reserves are classified in other long-term liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

 The Company does not have transactions or relationships with “special purpose” entities, and the Company does not have any off balance sheet financing other than normal operating leases. 

Other Commercial Commitments 

 At December 31, 2009, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $39.5, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs. Letters of credit provided by the Company are secured by the Company’s senior credit facilities and are renewed annually, around mid-year. 

 Effective January 1, 2008 the Company acquired additional partnership units in its Ontario, Canada (“Ontario”) joint venture for approximately $140.9 in cash (net of cash acquired), bringing the Company’s percentage interest owned to 85.6%. Concurrent with this acquisition, the terms of the joint venture’s partnership agreement were amended. Based upon the amended terms of this agreement, the Company began including the consolidated operating results, financial position and cash flows of the Ontario joint venture in the Company’s consolidated financial statements on January 1, 2008. The amended joint venture’s partnership agreement also enables the holders of the noncontrolling interest to put the remaining partnership units to the Company in defined future periods, at an initial amount equal to the consideration paid by the Company in 2008, and subject to adjustment based on market value formulas contained in the agreement. The initial difference of $123.0 between the value of the put and the underlying noncontrolling interest was recorded as additional noncontrolling interest liability and as a reduction to additional paid-in capital in the consolidated financial statements. The contractual value of the put, in excess of the current noncontrolling interest of $23.5, totals $118.9 at December 31, 2009. 

45 

Index  

 In December 2009, the Company received notification from the holders of the noncontrolling interest in the Ontario joint venture that they intend to put their remaining partnership units to the Company in accordance with the terms of the joint venture’s partnership agreement. These units were acquired on February 8, 2010 for CN$147.8. On February 17, 2010, the Company completed a transaction to sell the units acquired from the previous noncontrolling interest holder to a new Canadian partner for the same price. Upon the completion of these two transactions, the Company’s financial ownership percentage in the joint venture partnership remained unchanged at 85.6%. Concurrent with the sale to the new partner, the partnership agreement for the Ontario Canada joint venture was amended and restated with substantially the same terms as the previous agreement. 

 At December 31, 2009, the Company was a guarantor on approximately $2.5 of equipment leases. These leases were entered into by a joint venture in which the Company owns a 50% interest and have a remaining term of approximately three years. 

 Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled with availability under its senior credit facilities, the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet both its anticipated short-term and long-term cash needs; however, the Company continually reassesses its liquidity position in light of market conditions and other relevant factors. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

 In June 2009, the FASB established authoritative United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), codifying and superseding all pre-existing accounting standards and literature. This newly codified GAAP is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The Company has adopted the guidance without any impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

 In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance requiring all entities to report noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries as equity in the consolidated financial statements. The Company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2009 and pursuant to the provisions of the literature, the presentation and disclosure requirements have been applied retrospectively for all periods presented. Due to the nature of the noncontrolling interest put, the Company has not included the noncontrolling interest in its Ontario joint venture in the equity section of the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 

 In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance in connection with business combinations which was intended to simplify existing guidance and converge rulemaking under U.S. GAAP with international accounting rules. The guidance applies prospectively to business combinations where the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The Company adopted the literature as of January 1, 2009, and the Company began recording acquisitions in accordance with the authoritative guidance. As a result, acquisition related costs, primarily legal and other professional services, of $7.7 were included in selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

 In April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance in connection with accounting for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies. The guidance addresses application issues regarding the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting, and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. Due to the fact that the literature is applicable to acquisitions completed after January 1, 2009 and the Company did not have any business combinations with assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in 2009, the adoption of the authoritative guidance did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 

 In May 2008, the FASB issued authoritative guidance in connection with accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion. The guidance requires that the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) be separately accounted for in a manner that reflects an issuer’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. The resulting debt discount is amortized over the period the convertible debt is expected to be outstanding as additional non-cash interest expense. The guidance is 

46 

Index  

effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Retrospective application to all periods presented is required except for instruments that were not outstanding during any of the periods that will be presented in the annual financial statements for the period of adoption but were outstanding during an earlier period. The literature impacts the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes, and requires that additional interest expense essentially equivalent to the portion of issuance proceeds retroactively allocated to the instrument’s equity component be recognized over the period from the zero-coupon subordinated notes’ issuance in 2001 through September 2004 (the first date holders of these notes had the ability to put them back to the Company). As anticipated, the adoption of this authoritative guidance and its retrospective application did not have an impact on results of operations for periods following 2004, but it did result in an increase of $215.4 in opening additional paid-in capital and a corresponding decrease in opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2007, net of deferred tax impacts, on post-2004 consolidated balance sheets. 

 In December 2008, the FASB issued authoritative guidance in connection with employers’ disclosures about postretirement benefit plan assets. The objectives of the disclosures about plan assets in an employers’ defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan are to provide users of financial statements with an understanding of: (1) how investment allocation decisions are made, including the factors that are pertinent to an understanding of investment policies and strategies, (2) the major categories of plan assets, (3) the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets, (4) the effect of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) on changes in plan assets for the period, and (5) significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. The guidance is effective for years ending after December 15, 2009. Upon initial application, the provisions of the literature are not required for earlier periods that are presented for comparative periods. The Company is providing the additional disclosures in accordance with the authoritative guidance (see Note 16 to the notes to consolidated financial statements). 

 In April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance in connection with determining fair value when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have significantly decreased and identifying transactions that are not orderly. The literature provides authoritative guidance in determining whether a market is active or inactive, and whether a transaction is distressed. The guidance is applicable to all assets and liabilities (i.e. financial and nonfinancial) and requires enhanced disclosures, including interim and annual disclosure of the input and valuation techniques (or changes in techniques) used to measure fair value and the defining of the major security types comprising debt and equity securities held based upon the nature and risk of the security. The literature is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of the authoritative guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in the notes thereto. 

 In May 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance related to the accounting for and disclosure of subsequent events, which is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. This new guidance establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. This guidance introduces new terminology but is based on the same principles that previously existed in the auditing standards. Under this new guidance, the Company is required to provide disclosure of the date through which it has evaluated subsequent events and whether that date represents the date the financial statements were issued or the date the financial statements were available to be issued. For the financial statements related to the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 contained herein, the Company has evaluated subsequent events through February 24, 2010 representing the date these financial statements were issued. 

 In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance in connection with adding qualified special purpose entities into the scope of guidance for consolidation of variable interest entities. This literature also modifies the analysis by which a controlling interest of a variable interest entity is determined thereby requiring the controlling interest to consolidate the variable interest entity. A controlling interest exists if a party to a variable interest entity has both (i) the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses of or receive benefits from the entity that could be potentially significant to the variable interest entity. The guidance becomes effective as of the beginning of the first annual reporting period 

47 

Index  

beginning after November 15, 2009 and should be applied prospectively for interim and annual periods during that period going forward. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of the authoritative guidance could have on its consolidated financial statements. 

 In August 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance in connection with measuring liabilities at fair value. The guidance addresses the impact of transfer restrictions on the fair value of a liability and the ability to use the fair value of a liability that is traded as an asset as an input to the valuation of the underlying liability. The literature also clarifies the application of certain valuation techniques. Those clarifications include when to make adjustments to fair value. The guidance became effective in the Company’s quarter ended December 31, 2009. The adoption of the authoritative guidance did not have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

Critical Accounting Policies 

 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. While management believes these estimates are reasonable and consistent, they are by their very nature, estimates of amounts that will depend on future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. The Company’s Audit Committee periodically reviews the Company’s significant accounting policies. The Company’s critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts 

 Revenue is recognized for services rendered when the testing process is complete and test results are reported to the ordering physician. The Company’s sales are generally billed to three types of payers – clients, patients and third parties such as managed care companies, Medicare and Medicaid. For clients, sales are recorded on a fee-for-service basis at the Company’s client list price, less any negotiated discount. Patient sales are recorded at the Company’s patient fee schedule, net of any discounts negotiated with physicians on behalf of their patients. The Company bills third-party payers in two ways – fee-for-service and capitated agreements. Fee-for-service third-party payers are billed at the Company's patient fee schedule amount, and third-party revenue is recorded net of contractual discounts. These discounts are recorded at the transaction level at the time of sale based on a fee schedule that is maintained for each third-party payer. The majority of the Company’s third-party sales are recorded using an actual or contracted fee schedule at the time of sale. For the remaining third-party sales, estimated fee schedules are maintained for each payer. Adjustments to the estimated payment amounts are recorded at the time of final collection and settlement of each transaction as an adjustment to revenue. These adjustments are not material to the Company’s results of operations in any period presented. The Company periodically adjusts these estimated fee schedules based upon historical payment trends. Under capitated agreements with managed care companies, the Company recognizes revenue based on a negotiated monthly contractual rate for each member of the managed care plan regardless of the number or cost of services performed. 

 The Company has a formal process to estimate and review the collectibility of its receivables based on the period of time they have been outstanding. Bad debt expense is recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales considered necessary to maintain the allowance for doubtful accounts at an appropriate level. The Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for doubtful accounts involves judgment, and considers such factors as the age of the underlying receivables, historical and projected collection experience, and other external factors that could affect the collectibility of its receivables. Accounts are written off against the allowance for 

48 

Index  

doubtful accounts based on the Company’s write-off policy (e.g., when they are deemed to be uncollectible). In the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance, accounts are progressively reserved based on the historical timing of cash collections relative to their respective aging categories within the Company’s receivables. These collection and reserve processes, along with the close monitoring of the billing process, help reduce the risks of material revisions to reserve estimates resulting from adverse changes in collection or reimbursement experience. The following table presents the percentage of the Company’s net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category at December 31, 2009 and 2008: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The above table excludes the Ontario operation’s percentage of net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category. The provincial government is the primary customer of the Ontario operation. The Company believes that including the aging for Ontario would not be representative of the majority of the accounts receivable by aging category for the Company. 

Pension Expense 

 Substantially all employees of the Company are covered by the Company Plan. The benefits to be paid under the Company Plan are based on years of credited service and compensation earned while an employee of LabCorp. The Company also has the PEP which covers its senior management group and provides for additional benefits, due in part to limitations on benefits and pay imposed on the Company Plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. 

 In October 2009, the Company received approval from its Board of Directors to freeze any additional service-based credits for any years of service after December 31, 2009 on the Company Plan and the PEP. Both plans will be closed to new entrants. Current participants in the Company Plan and the PEP will no longer earn service-based credits, but will continue to earn interest credits. In addition, effective January 1, 2010, all employees eligible for the defined contribution retirement plan (the “401K Plan”) will receive a 3% non-elective contribution (“NEC”) concurrent with each payroll period. The 401K Plan also provides discretionary contributions of 1% to 3% of pay for eligible employees based on service. 

 The Company's net pension cost is developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis at the beginning of each year. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. The key assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit retirement plans were a 5.8% discount rate and an 7.5% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets as of December 31, 2009. 

Discount Rate 

 The Company evaluates several approaches toward setting the discount rate assumption that is used to value the benefit obligations of its retirement plans. At year-end, priority was given to use of the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve and anticipated cash outflows of each retirement plan were discounted with the spot yields from the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve. A single-effective discount rate assumption was then determined for each retirement plan based on this analysis. A one percentage point reduction in the discount rate would have resulted in an increase in 2009 retirement plan expense of $3.3. 

49 

Index  

Return on Plan Assets 

 In establishing its expected return on plan assets assumption, the Company reviews its asset allocation and develops return assumptions based on different asset classes adjusting for plan operating expenses. Actual asset over/under performance compared to expected returns will respectively decrease/increase unrecognized loss. The change in the unrecognized loss will change amortization cost in upcoming periods. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have resulted in a corresponding change in 2009 pension expense of $2.0. 

 Net pension cost for 2009 was $36.6 (including the impact of the $2.8 non-recurring net curtailment charge) as compared with $19.5 in 2008. As a result of the changes to the Company Plan and PEP, projected pension expense for the Company Plan and the PEP is expected to decrease from $36.6 in 2009 to $10.4 in 2010. The implementation of the NEC is expected to increase the Company’s 401K costs and contributions by an additional $22.5 in 2010. 

 Further information on the Company’s defined benefit retirement plan is provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Accruals for Self-insurance Reserves 

 Accruals for self-insurance reserves (including workers’ compensation, auto and employee medical) are determined based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical payment trends and claims history, actuarial assumptions and current and estimated future economic conditions. These estimated liabilities are not discounted. 

 The Company is self-insured (up to certain limits) for professional liability claims arising in the normal course of business, generally related to the testing and reporting of laboratory test results. The Company maintains excess insurance which limits the Company's maximum exposure on individual claims. The Company estimates a liability that represents the ultimate exposure for aggregate losses below those limits. The liability is discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors for known and incurred but not reported claims based on an actuarial assessment of the accrual driven by frequency and amount of claims. 

 If actual trends differ from these estimates, the financial results could be impacted. Actual trends have not differed materially from these estimates. 

 Income Taxes 

 The Company accounts for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability method. Under this method deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company does not recognize a tax benefit, unless the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, the Company recognizes a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that the Company believes is greater than 50% likely to be realized. The Company records interest and penalties in income tax expense. 

50 

Index  

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

 The Company has made in this report, and from time to time may otherwise make in its public filings, press releases and discussions by Company management, forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “seeks”, “approximately”, “intends”, “plans”, “estimates”, or “anticipates” or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and in the Company’s other public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, including: 

  1.  changes in federal, state, local and third-party payer regulations or policies (or in the interpretation of current regulations), new insurance or payment systems, including state or regional insurance cooperatives, new public insurance programs or a single-payer system, affecting governmental and third-party coverage or reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing;

  2.  adverse results from investigations or audits of clinical laboratories by the government, which may include significant monetary damages, refunds and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs;

  3.  loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or those of Medicare, Medicaid, the False Claims Act or other federal, state or local agencies;

  4.  failure to comply with the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, which may result in penalties and loss of licensure;

  5.  failure to comply with HIPAA, including changes to federal and state privacy and security obligations and changes to HIPAA, including those changes included within HITECH, which could result in increased costs, denial of claims and/or significant penalties;

 6.  failure to maintain the security of customer-related information could damage the Company's reputation with customers, cause it to incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation; 

  7.  failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to comply with Version 5010 Transactions by January 2012 or the ICD-10-CM Code Set issued by the Department of Health and Human Services and effective for claims submitted as of October 1, 2013;

  8.  increased competition, including competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry;

  9.  increased price competition, competitive bidding for laboratory tests and/or changes or reductions to fee schedules;

  10.  changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated managed-cost health care or the impact of a shift to consumer-driven health plans;

  11.  failure to obtain and retain new customers and alliance partners, or a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers;

51 

Index  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

52 

Index  

  Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK