PART I

Item 1.Business

Overview

We are a leading provider of products, services and solutions to the diagnostics, research, environmental, industrial and laboratory services markets. Through our advanced technologies, solutions, and services, we address critical issues that help to improve the health and safety of people and the environment.

We are a Massachusetts corporation, founded in 1947. Our headquarters are in Waltham, Massachusetts, and we market our products and services in more than 150 countries. As of January 3, 2016, we employed approximately 8,000 employees in our continuing operations. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PKI” and we are a component of the S&P 500 Index.

We maintain a website with the address http://www.perkinelmer.com. We are not including the information contained in our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or otherwise furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Our Strategy

Our strategy is to develop and deliver innovative products, services and solutions in high-growth markets that utilize our knowledge and expertise to address customers’ critical needs and drive scientific breakthroughs. To execute on our strategy and accelerate revenue growth, we focus on broadening our offerings through both the acquisition of innovative technology and investment in research and development. Our strategy includes:

•Achieving significant growth in both of our core business segments, Human Health and Environmental Health, through strategic acquisitions and licensing;

•Accelerating innovation through both internal research and development and third-party collaborations and alliances;

•Strengthening our position within key markets, by expanding our product and service offerings and maintaining superior product quality;

•Utilizing our share repurchase programs to help drive shareholder value; and

•Attracting, retaining and developing talented and engaged employees.

Recent Developments

As part of our strategy to grow our core businesses, we have recently taken the following actions:

Strategic Business Realignment:

We realigned our organization at the beginning of fiscal year 2015 to enable us to both deliver complete solutions targeted towards certain end markets and develop value-added applications and solutions to foster further expansion of those markets. OneSource, our multivendor laboratory service business that serves the life sciences end market, was moved from our Environmental Health segment into our Human Health segment. The results reported for fiscal year 2015 reflect this new alignment of our operating segments. Financial information in this report relating to fiscal years 2014 and 2013 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect this change to our operating segments.

Acquisitions in Fiscal Year 2015:

We completed the acquisition of five businesses in fiscal year 2015 for a total consideration of $77.1 million, in cash. The acquired businesses included Vanadis Diagnostics AB (“Vanadis”), which was acquired for total consideration of $35.1 million in cash, as further described in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K, and other acquisitions for an aggregate consideration of $42.0 million in cash. We have a potential obligation to pay the shareholders of Vanadis additional contingent consideration of up to $93.0 million, which at closing had an estimated fair value of $56.9 million. We reported the operations for all of these acquisitions within the results of our Human Health and Environmental Health segments from the acquisition dates.

Restructuring:

During fiscal year 2015, we recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $4.4 million in our Human Health segment and $13.2 million in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from restructuring activities. Our 

3
management approved these plans principally to realign resources to emphasize growth initiatives and to focus resources on higher growth end markets. We also recorded pre-tax restructuring reversals of $2.3 million in our Human Health segment and $3.9 million in our Environmental Health segment related to lower than expected costs associated with workforce reductions. In fiscal year 2015, we also recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $2.0 million in our Human Health segment relating to the closure of excess facility space and a pre-tax restructuring charge of $0.1 million in our Environmental Health segment primarily as a result of terminating various contractual commitments. This pre-tax restructuring activity has been reported as restructuring and contract termination charges and is included as a component of operating expenses from continuing operations. We expect no significant impact on future operating results or cash flows from the restructuring activities executed in fiscal year 2015.

As part of our ongoing business strategy, we also took the following actions:

Share Repurchase Program: 

On October 23, 2014, our Board of Directors (our "Board") authorized us to repurchase up to 8.0 million shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program (the "Repurchase Program"). The Repurchase Program will expire on October 23, 2016 unless terminated earlier by our Board, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2015, we repurchased 1.5 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $72.0 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. As of January 3, 2016, 5.9 million shares remained available for repurchase under the Repurchase Program. From January 4, 2016 through February 25, 2016, we repurchased 2.4 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $109.7 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program.

Business Segments and Products

We report our business in two segments: Human Health and Environmental Health. We performed our annual impairment testing on January 1, 2015, the annual impairment date for our reporting units, and based on the first step of the impairment process (the comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if the carrying value exceeds the fair value), we concluded that there was no goodwill impairment.

We realigned our organization at the beginning of fiscal year 2015 to enable us to both deliver complete solutions targeted towards certain end markets and develop value-added applications and solutions to foster further expansion of those markets. OneSource, our multivendor laboratory service business that serves the life sciences end market, was moved from our Environmental Health segment into our Human Health segment. The results reported for fiscal year 2015 reflect this new alignment of our operating segments. Financial information in this report relating to fiscal years 2014 and 2013 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect this change to our operating segments.

Human Health Segment

Our Human Health segment concentrates on developing diagnostics, tools and applications to help detect diseases earlier and more accurately and to accelerate the discovery and development of critical new therapies. Within our Human Health segment, we serve the diagnostics and research markets. Our Human Health segment generated revenue of $1,376.6 million in fiscal year 2015.

Diagnostics Market:

We provide early detection for genetic disorders from pregnancy to early childhood, as well as flat panel X-ray detectors and infectious disease testing for the diagnostics market. Our screening products are designed to provide early and accurate insights into the health of expectant mothers during pregnancy and into the health of their babies. Our instruments, reagents and software test and screen for genetic abnormalities, disorders and diseases, including Down syndrome, hypothyroidism, infertility and various metabolic conditions. Our flat panel X-ray detectors are used within X-ray imaging systems to allow physicians to make fast and accurate diagnoses of conditions ranging from broken bones to breast cancer. In addition, our flat panel X-ray detectors are used within oncology radiation therapy systems to support more accurate tumor treatment.

Research Market:

In the research market, we provide a broad suite of solutions including reagents, liquid handling systems, and detection and imaging technologies that enable scientists to improve life sciences research and drug discovery processes. These products, solutions and services support pharmaceutical and biotech companies, and academic institutions globally in creating better therapeutics by helping to bring products to market faster and more efficiently. Our research portfolio includes a wide range of systems consisting of instrumentation for automation and detection for use in vitro and ex vivo, as well as in vivo imaging and analysis hardware and software, plus a range of consumable products, such as drug discovery and research reagents. In addition, our OneSource laboratory service business is aligned with customers' needs to accelerate science by enabling efficiency gains within their labs.

4
Principal Products:

Our principal products and services for Human Health applications include the following:

Diagnostics:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The NeoGram™ MS/MS AAAC in vitro diagnostic kit is used to support detection of metabolic disorders in newborns through tandem mass spectrometry.

•The NeoBase™ Non-derivatized MS/MS kit analyzes newborn blood samples for measurement of amino acids and other metabolic analytes for specific diseases.

•The GSP® Neonatal hTSH, T4 17α-OHP, GALT IRT, BTD, PKU, Total Galactose and G6PD kits are used for screening congenital neonatal conditions from a drop of blood.

•The Specimen Gate® informatics data management solution is designed specifically for newborn screening laboratories.

•The XRpad® family of amorphous silicon (a-Si) flat panel cassette X-ray detectors enables X-ray system manufacturers to upgrade their systems from film to digital and to produce exceptional image resolution and diagnostic capability for radiography especially when imaging small anatomical features such as bone fractures and lung nodules.

•ViaCord® umbilical cord blood banking services for the banking of stem cells harvested from umbilical cord blood, for potential therapeutic application.

•The XRD™ family of a-Si flat panel X-ray detectors provides imaging for medical applications such as radiation therapy and veterinary imaging as well as industrial imaging applications including pipeline inspection, manufacturing inspection and 3D Cone Beam CT.

•The Dexela® family of CMOS flat panel X-ray detectors provides imaging for orthopedic surgery, mammography, dental, and industrial imaging applications such as PCB inspection and 3D Cone Beam CT.

•An expanded portfolio of molecular-based infectious disease screening technologies for blood bank and clinical laboratory settings in China. The tools include a qualitative 3-in-1 assay for the detection of hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV, as well as assays for other communicable diseases.

Research:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Operetta® high content imaging system is used to automate imaging and analysis for cell-based assays for drug discovery and basic cellular science research laboratories. 

•The Columbus™ image data storage and analysis system provides a single solution to the storage and analysis of high content data from any major high content screening system, helping to visualize and analyze high content images via the Internet.

•The EnSight™ multimode plate reader benchtop system offers well plate imaging alongside label-free and labeled detection technologies for target-based and phenotypic assays.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•A broad portfolio of recombinant GPCR and Ion Channel cell lines, including over 300 products and 120 ready-to-use frozen cell lines for a wide range of disease areas. 

5
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•TSA® Plus biotin kits can increase sensitivity of histochemistry and cytochemistry as much as 10 to 20 times.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The G4 PET/X-ray and G8 PET/CT preclinical imaging systems deliver PET imaging with an intuitive user interface and efficient workflows, ensuring subject monitoring throughout preparation and imaging.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The LabChip GXII Touch provides a means of characterizing multiple protein product attributes for research labs through QC.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•OneSource® Mobile Application provides instant mobile access to service activity and equipment data including the ability to open a service call, check service history and view future scheduled events.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

New Products:

Significant new products introduced or acquired for Human Health applications in fiscal year 2015 include the following:

Diagnostics:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6
Research:

•Opal® 5, 6, and 7 color multiplexed staining kits for amplified detection of immunohistochemistry utilized for multiple biomarker assessment in a single FFPE tumor cross section.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Alpha SureFire® Ultra Multiplex Assays for the rapid, sensitive and quantitative detection of phosphoproteins from cells, combined with the measurement of the total amount of the same protein in a single well.

•AlphaPlex™ reagent technology, a homogeneous, all-in-one-well multiplexing reagent system for performing ultra-sensitive immunoassay analyses.

•CellCarrier® Ultra 384-well microplates used in high content imaging applications such as phenotypic screening and three-dimensional disease model studies.

•Signals™ for Translational, a cloud-based data management, aggregation and analysis platform, integrates experimental and clinical research data from many sources and relates the data to scientifically meaningful concepts. The platform also enables support for the complete precision medicine workflow, from data acquisition to biomarker discovery and validation.

•Clinical Data Review analytical solution provides medical monitors, safety review teams, biostatisticians, data managers, pharmacologists, and others who analyze clinical data, a powerful advanced analytics solution for overcoming data review challenges. The solution enhances clinical data management and medical review workflows, allowing organizations to make informed decisions on the safety and efficacy of therapeutics earlier in their development.

Brand Names:

Our Human Health segment offers additional products under various brand names, including AlphaLISA®, AlphaPlex™, AlphaScreen®, AlphaLISA®, Alpha SureFire®, AutoDELFIA®, BACS-on-Beads®, BoBs®, Cell carrier™, cell::explorer®, Chem3D®, ChemDraw®, ChemOffice®, Columbus™, Datalytix™, Dexela® CMOS FPDs™, Elements®, EnLite™, EnSight™, EnSpire®, EnVision®, Evolution™, EZ-Reader™, FMT®, FragilEase™, Genoglyphix®, Geospiza®, GSP®, High Content Profiler™, iLab™, inForm®, IVIS®, JANUS®, LabChip®, LANCE®, LifeCycle™, LimsLink™, Living Image®, Mantra™, MicroBeta2® MultiPROBE®, NEN®, Nuance®, OneSource®, Opal®, Opera®, Operetta®, Pannoramic™, Phenoptics™, plate::explorer®, Quantulus™ GCT, Quantum™, Sciclone®, Signals™ for Translational, Specimen Gate®, Tri-Carb®, TRIO™, Twister®, VariSpec™, Vectra®, ViaCord®, VICTOR™, VivoTag®, Volocity®, Wizard2®, XRD™, XRpad® and Zephyr®.

Environmental Health Segment

Our Environmental Health segment provides products, services and solutions to facilitate a cleaner and safer environment, including the creation of secure food and consumer products. Our Environmental Health segment serves the environmental, industrial and laboratory services market, and generated revenue of $885.7 million in fiscal year 2015.

Environmental Market:

For the environmental market, we develop and provide analytical technologies, solutions and services that enable our customers to understand the characterization and health of many aspects of our environment, including air, water and soil.

Our technologies are used to detect and help reduce the impact products and industrial processes may have on our environment. For example, we have solutions to help ensure compliance with regulatory standards that protect the purity of the world's water supply by detecting harmful substances, including trace metals such as lead, and organic pollutants such as pesticides and benzene. We provide the tools needed to test functionality, meet quality specifications and safety standards, and innovate for next generation products.

We provide a variety of solutions that confirm food quality, including the level of moisture in grain or detecting the presence of potentially dangerous contaminants, such as lead and mercury in milk. Our solutions can also be used to identify the origin of food products such as olive oil, which helps prevent counterfeiting. Our methods and analyses are transferable throughout the supply chain so our customers are able to keep pace with industry standards as well as governmental regulations and certifications.

Industrial Market:

We provide analytical instrumentation for the industrial market which includes the chemical, electronics, energy, food, lubricant, petrochemical and polymer industries. Our industrial instrumentation is primarily used by customers focusing on quality assurance standards. 

7
Laboratory Services Market:

We have approximately 1,200 service personnel in our Environmental Health segment to support our customers in the laboratory services market throughout the world and to help them improve the productivity of their labs.

Principal Products:

Our principal products and services for Environmental Health applications include the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Our infrared spectroscopy family, including the Spectrum Two™ spectrometer, a compact and portable instrument, is used for high-speed infrared analysis for unknown substance identification, material qualification or concentration determination in fuel and lubricant analysis, polymer analysis and pharmaceutical and environmental applications. This family also includes the Frontier™ IR and NIR spectrometers designed to provide high sensitivity and flexibility to address a range of sample types and safe drug development, and for determining chemical and material properties in a variety of samples, including consumer products.

•The LAMBDA™ UV/Vis, a series of spectrophotometers that provide sampling flexibility to enable measuring of a wide range of sample types, including liquids, powders and solid materials, both in regulated industries as well as QC/QA and research applications.

New Products:

New products introduced or acquired for Environmental Health applications in fiscal year 2015 include the following:

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The PinAAcle® 500 is a fully-integrated, flame-only atomic absorption spectrometer that can be coupled with a FAST Flame sample automation accessory and is used by laboratories to determine elemental content of a sample.

•The Spotlight™ FT-IR Microscope System, a high performance microscopy platform, designed for scientists whose samples demand high sensitivity and simple analysis and workflows, for use in product defect analysis, impurity identification, forensics and academic research.

•The LAMBDA™ 265 365 465 UV/Vis Systems benchtop UV/Vis instruments offering a variety of spectral bandwidths to accommodate a wide range of analytical functions related to materials testing, QA/QC and R&D.

•The Perten® DA 7250 NIR Analyzer, a diode array based NIR instrument that analyzes samples of grains, flakes, pellet powders, pastes, slurries and liquids and can determine moisture, protein, fat, ash, starch and many other parameters.

•The Torion® T-9 portable GC/MS, a fast person-portable GC/MS system, enabling rapid detection and actionable results to potentially hazardous and emergency environmental conditions.

Brand Names:

Our Environmental Health segment offers additional products under various brand names, including Altus®, AAnalyst™, Chromera®, Clarus®, DairyGuard™, Flexar™, Frontier™, HyperDSC®, LAMBDA™, NexION®, OilExpress™, OilPrep™, Optima™, Perten®, PinAAcle®, Spectrum™, Spectrum Two™, Spotlight™, Supra-clean®, Supra-d™, Supra-poly®, Torion® and Ultraspray®.

Marketing

All of our businesses market their products and services primarily through their own specialized sales forces. As of January 3, 2016, we employed approximately 3,700 sales and service representatives operating in approximately 35 countries and marketing products and services in more than 150 countries. In geographic regions where we do not have a sales and service presence, we utilize distributors to sell our products.

8
Raw Materials, Key Components and Supplies

Each of our businesses uses a wide variety of raw materials, key components and supplies that are generally available from alternate sources of supply and in adequate quantities from domestic and foreign sources. We generally have multi-year contracts, with no minimum purchase requirements, with our suppliers. For certain critical raw materials, key components and supplies required for the production of some of our principal products, we have qualified only a limited or a single source of supply. We periodically purchase quantities of some of these critical raw materials in excess of current requirements, in anticipation of future manufacturing needs. With sufficient lead times, we believe we would be able to qualify alternative suppliers for each of these raw materials and key components. See the applicable risk factor in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for an additional description of this risk.

Intellectual Property

We own numerous United States and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the United States and abroad. We also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. In addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. We also own numerous United States and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the United States and abroad. We believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. We do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments.

In some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors’ patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties’ intellectual property rights. Litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. An adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties.

Backlog

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required for a majority of our sales. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business.

Competition

Due to the range and diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. Our competitors range from foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to more narrowly focused firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments.

We compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. Competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market positions. We expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors.

Research and Development

Research and development expenditures were $125.9 million during fiscal year 2015, $121.1 million during fiscal year 2014, and $132.4 million during fiscal year 2013.

We have a broad product base, and we do not expect any single research and development project to have significant costs. We directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory service markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. We expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2016, and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory services markets within our Environmental Health segment.

9
Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. These requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees.

We may have liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. We have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes.

We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. We accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. We have accrued $11.8 million and $12.3 million as of January 3, 2016 and December 28, 2014, respectively, which represents our management’s estimate of the cost of the remediation of known environmental matters, and does not include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. During fiscal year 2014, we recorded a benefit of $2.3 million for cost reimbursements related to a particular site, of which $1.2 million was for future monitoring and mitigation activities. During fiscal year 2013, we accrued an additional $5.7 million related to a particular site for increased monitoring and mitigation activities, of which $4.6 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. Our environmental accrual is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any material amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. The cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where we have been named a PRP, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. We expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. As assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. While it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded.

We may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs.

Employees

As of January 3, 2016, we employed approximately 8,000 employees in our continuing operations. Several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers’ councils. As of January 3, 2016, we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,600 union and workers’ council employees. We consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory.

Financial Information About Business Segments

We realigned our organization at the beginning of fiscal year 2015 to enable us to both deliver complete solutions targeted towards certain end markets and develop value-added applications and solutions to foster further expansion of those markets. OneSource, our multivendor laboratory service business that serves the life sciences end market, was moved from our Environmental Health segment into our Human Health segment. The results reported for fiscal year 2015 reflect this new alignment of our operating segments. Financial information in this report relating to fiscal years 2014 and 2013 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect this change to our operating segments.

We have included the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, as well as the activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, as “Corporate” below. We have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when these costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. These amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments.

10
The table below sets forth revenue and operating income (loss) from continuing operations by operating segment for the fiscal years ended:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Additional information relating to our reporting segments is as follows for the fiscal years ended:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

Both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the United States. During fiscal year 2015, we had $1,346.0 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. During fiscal year 2015, we derived approximately 50% of our international sales from our Human Health segment and approximately 50% of our international sales from our Environmental Health segment. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future.

We are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. Additional geographic information is discussed in Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 1A.Risk Factors