Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Financial Instruments

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, derivatives, marketable securities and accounts receivable. We believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of January 3, 2016.

We use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. We enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. We do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. Approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the United States, generally in foreign currencies. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business.

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures from these currencies, with gains and losses resulting from the forward currency contracts that hedge these exposures. Transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. The contracts are primarily in European and Asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. The unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. The cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from operating activities within our consolidated statement of cash flows.

Principal hedged currencies include the British Pound, Euro, Japanese Yen and Singapore Dollar. We held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as economic hedges, with U.S. dollar equivalent notional amounts totaling $127.3 million at January 3, 2016, $95.0 million at December 28, 2014 and $138.4 million at December 29, 2013, and the fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. The gains and losses realized on these foreign currency derivative 

50
contracts are not material. The duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during each of fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013.

In addition, in connection with certain intercompany loan agreements utilized to finance our acquisitions, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of such intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies. We record these hedges at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. The unrealized gains and losses on these hedges, as well as the gains and losses associated with the remeasurement of the intercompany loans, are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. The cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from financing activities within our consolidated statement of cash flows.

During fiscal year 2014, we entered into five forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as economic hedges, with settlement dates in fiscal year 2015 and combined Euro denominated notional amounts of €238.2 million outstanding as of December 28, 2014, designated as economic hedges, that were intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of certain intercompany loan agreements. During fiscal year 2015, we settled several of these forward exchange contracts. During fiscal year 2015, we also entered into new forward foreign exchange contracts that settled in fiscal year 2015 or will settle in fiscal year 2016. The combined Euro denominated notional amounts of these outstanding hedges was €107.4 million and €238.2 million as of January 3, 2016 and December 28, 2014, respectively. The net gains and losses on these derivatives, combined with the gains and losses on the remeasurement of the hedged intercompany loans, were not material for fiscal years 2015 and 2014. During fiscal year 2015, we received $18.7 million as a result of the settlement of these hedges.

In May 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 Notes, and recognized $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive (loss) income. During fiscal year 2013, we amortized a pre-tax loss of $2.0 million into interest and other expense, net. In addition, during fiscal year 2013, we redeemed all of our 2015 Notes and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million for the remaining unamortized derivative losses into interest and other expense, net.

Market Risk

Market Risk. We are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures.

Foreign Exchange Risk. The potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the United States, generally in foreign currencies. Our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. The intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. Moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the United States, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the United States, resulting in natural hedges.

Although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be positively but not proportionately impacted. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be negatively but not proportionately impacted.

Foreign Currency Risk—Value-at-Risk Disclosure. We utilize a Value-at-Risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. As discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. Our Value-at-Risk computation is based on the Monte Carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. As of January 3, 2016, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.5 million. This Value-At-Risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. Specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2015, the Value-At-Risk ranged between $0.3 million and $0.9 million, with an average of approximately $0.5 million.

Interest Rate Risk. As described above in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources,” our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. Fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures.

51
In May 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 Notes, and recognized $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive (loss) income. During fiscal year 2013, we amortized a pre-tax loss of $2.0 million into interest and other expense, net. In addition, during fiscal year 2013, we redeemed all of our 2015 Notes and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million for the remaining unamortized derivative losses into interest and other expense, net. 

Interest Rate Risk—Sensitivity. As of January 3, 2016, our debt portfolio consisted of $482.0 million of variable rate debt. In addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $237.9 million at January 3, 2016. Our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows:

(i) Changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $482.0 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. An increase of 10%, or approximately 14 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.7 million for fiscal year 2016.

(ii) Changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. As described above, an increase of 10%, or approximately 14 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.7 million for fiscal year 2016.

(iii) Changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate.

52
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplemental Data