Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information described under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

OVERVIEW

We are a developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics products, medical imaging systems and surgical products. Our core business units are focused on diagnostics, breast health, GYN surgical and skeletal health. We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service forces and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives.

We offer a wide range of diagnostic products which are used primarily to aid in the diagnosis of human diseases and screen donated human blood. Our primary diagnostics products include our Aptima family of assays, including our advanced instrumentation (Panther and Tigris), our ThinPrep system, the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test and Procleix blood screening assays. The Aptima family of assays is used to detect the infectious microorganisms that cause the common sexually transmitted diseases, or STDs, chlamydia and gonorrhea, certain high-risk strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV, and Trichomonas vaginalis, the parasite that causes trichomoniasis. The ThinPrep System is primarily used in cytology applications, such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth. In blood screening, we develop and manufacture the Procleix family of assays, which are used to detect various infectious diseases. These blood screening products are marketed worldwide by our blood screening collaborator, Grifols S.A., or Grifols, under Grifols' trademarks.

Our breast health products include a broad portfolio of breast imaging and related products and accessories, including digital and film-based mammography systems, computer-aided detection, or CAD, for mammography and minimally invasive breast biopsy devices, breast biopsy site markers, breast biopsy guidance systems and breast brachytherapy products. Our most advanced breast imaging platform, Dimensions, utilizes a technology called tomosynthesis to produce 3D images, as well as conventional 2D full field digital mammography images.

Our GYN surgical products include our NovaSure Endometrial Ablation System, or NovaSure, and our MyoSure Hysteroscopic Tissue Removal System, or MyoSure. The NovaSure system involves a trans-cervical procedure for the treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. The MyoSure system is a tissue removal device that is designed to provide incision-less removal of fibroids, polyps, and other pathology within the uterus.

Our skeletal health products include dual-energy X-ray bone densitometry systems, an ultrasound-based osteoporosis assessment product, and our Fluoroscan mini C-arm imaging products.

Unless the context otherwise requires, references to we, us, Hologic or our company refer to Hologic, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

Market acceptance of our medical products in the United States and other countries is dependent upon the purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures, and the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs, private insurers or other healthcare payors. In the United States, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, known as CMS, establishes coverage policies and payment rates for Medicare beneficiaries. Under current CMS policies, varying payment levels have been established for certain of our products and treatments. Coverage and payment policies and rates applicable to patients with private insurance are dependent upon individual private payor decisions which may not follow the policies and rates established by CMS. The use of our products outside the United States is similarly affected by payment policies adopted by foreign regulatory authorities and insurance carriers. On October 31, 2014, CMS for the first time released payment rates for screening and diagnostic 3D mammography (breast tomosynthesis). This action establishes national average payment rates for the Category I Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, code for 3D mammography screening and creates a new add-on Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS, code for 3D diagnostic mammography. These codes and rates go into effect January 1, 2015. Coverage policies for 3D mammography still need to be determined by most government and private payors.

40
The continuing uncertainty surrounding worldwide financial markets and macroeconomic conditions has caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease or delay their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. Economic uncertainty as well as increasing health insurance premiums, deductibles and co-payments have resulted and may continue to result in cost-conscious consumers focusing on acute care rather than wellness, which has and may continue to adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. Furthermore, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. If the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted.

In March 2010, significant reforms to the healthcare system were adopted as law in the United States. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and imposes new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of certain medical devices effective January 1, 2013. Since the effective date of the medical device excise tax, the Company has incurred $21.9 million and $15.7 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively, of excise tax expense related to the domestic sales of its medical device products. The law also includes regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs, as well as stringent reporting requirements of financial relationships between medical device manufacturers and physicians and hospitals. Compliance with the healthcare legislation, including these reporting requirements and the excise tax, has imposed significant additional administrative and financial burdens on us. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level and in various foreign countries. The healthcare reform legislation and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. In addition, the excise tax has increased our cost of doing business. These reforms, cost containment measures and new taxes, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could also have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.

We operate in a highly regulated industry and other governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including, without limitation: new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to healthcare availability, methods of delivery and payment for healthcare products and services; changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, any of which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices; and changes in the tax laws relating to our operations, including those associated with the recently adopted healthcare reform law discussed above.

Professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities from time to time. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related preventative services and treatments/therapies. Recommendations, guidelines or studies that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased reimbursement or use of our products. For example, in November 2012, the American Congress of Obstetrics and Gynecologists, known as the ACOG, released updates in which they have recommended less frequent cervical cancer screening similar to guidelines released in March 2012 by the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force, known as the USPSTF, and the American Cancer Society. However, the USPSTF recommendations now also include HPV co-testing for certain patient populations, an update from their draft guidelines in October 2011. Overall, we believe that these guidelines have contributed to an increase in testing intervals in the U.S. for cervical cancer screening, resulting in fewer such tests being performed.

Over the last few years, including in October 2014, there have been periodic significant fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. The ongoing fluctuations of the value of the U.S. dollar may cause our products to be less competitive in international markets and may impact sales and profitability over time. A majority of our international sales are denominated in foreign currencies. Given the uncertainty in the worldwide financial markets, foreign currency fluctuations may be significant in the future and we may experience a material adverse effect on our international revenues and operating results.

41
ACQUISITIONS

Fiscal 2012 Acquisition:

Gen-Probe Incorporated

On August 1, 2012, we completed the acquisition of Gen-Probe for $3.97 billion, which was funded through available cash and financing consisting of senior secured credit facilities and senior notes resulting in aggregate proceeds of $3.48 billion, net of discounts. Gen-Probe’s revenue and pre-tax loss from continuing operations for the period from the acquisition date to September 29, 2012 were $89.5 million and $47.7 million, respectively.

42
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by items as shown in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. All dollar amounts in tables are presented in millions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43
Fiscal Year Ended September 27, 2014 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 28, 2013 

Product Sales.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diagnostics product revenues decreased 1.7% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to a reduction in ThinPrep revenues of $31.5 million and a decrease of $23.1 million in Lifecodes revenue as a result of the divestiture of this product line in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in our molecular diagnostics products of $12.4 million primarily due to an increase in revenues from our Aptima family of assays and an increase in blood screening revenues of $24.5 million, which were partially offset by lower sales of our Tigris and Panther instrumentation and lower Prodesse sales.

We attribute the reduction in ThinPrep revenues primarily to lower domestic sales volumes resulting from an increase in screening intervals based on guidelines released in 2012 by the American Congress of Obstetrics and Gynecologists and the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force and lower average sales prices internationally. 

The increase in revenues in the current year related to our Aptima family of assays was primarily due to increased volumes from our strategic alliance with Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, or Quest, entered into in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, our increased installed base of Panther instruments, and increased sales volumes of our HPV screening assay, which was FDA approved for use on our Panther system in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. These increases were partially offset by slightly lower average sales prices for our Aptima products due to increased competitive pressures, and a reduction in Cervista HPV revenues as our larger customers transition to our Panther system and Aptima HPV assay. The reduction in instruments sales was primarily due to the ramp up of unit sales to Quest in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. Prodesse revenues decreased in the current year primarily due to a milder flu season this year compared to the corresponding period in the prior year and the recent introduction of competitive products. 

Our blood screening revenues increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the inclusion of contingent revenue under our blood screening collaboration that was not recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, and to a lesser extent the second quarter of fiscal 2013, due to unbilled accounts receivable being recorded as a fair value adjustment in purchase accounting. Under the collaboration, a portion of our blood screening revenue is contingent on donations testing revenue earned by our blood screening collaborator. As a result, amounts that were to be received for this contingent revenue related to inventory on hand and not yet utilized by Novartis’ (our blood screening collaborator at the time) customers as of the date we acquired Gen-Probe were recorded as unbilled accounts receivable on the balance sheet in purchase accounting, and these amounts were not recorded as revenue in our results of operations in fiscal 2013. The amount of this contingent revenue not recorded as revenue in the prior year was $23.5 million. We also experienced an increase in volume due to the recent agreement between Grifols, our current blood screening partner, and the Japanese Red Cross. These increases were partially offset by lower West Nile Virus assay sales compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2013 as last year had a higher incidence of the West Nile Virus resulting in higher donation testing in the prior year. 

Breast Health product revenues increased 2.0% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013. Our digital mammography systems and related products revenue increased $22.8 million in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in 3D Dimensions units sold on a worldwide basis and higher workstations and workflow product revenue driven by our C-View product. As expected, we continue to experience a decline in the number of 2D systems sold as customers transition to the 3D Dimensions systems, which is occurring primarily in the United States. In addition, our breast biopsy products revenue increased $2.3 million in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in the number of Eviva biopsy devices sold worldwide. These increases were partially offset by declines in our analog mammography systems and Hitec Imaging products. 

44
GYN Surgical product revenues increased 0.3% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in MyoSure system sales of $18.3 million partially offset by lower NovaSure device sales of $16.8 million. The MyoSure system continues to gain strong market acceptance as unit sales increase globally, partially offset by product mix. We experienced a decrease in the number of NovaSure devices sold in the United States, which we continue to believe is primarily attributable to patients delaying surgery or opting for lower cost and generally less effective alternatives, partially offset by higher international volume. 

Skeletal Health product revenues increased 1.4% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in our osteoporosis assessment product sales, namely our Horizon product, which was introduced in late fiscal 2013, and to a lesser extent our mini C-arm systems, partially offset by lower volumes of our older Discovery products and pricing pressures. 

In fiscal 2014, 73.6% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 13.8% in Europe, 8.6% in Asia-Pacific, and 4.0% in other international markets. In fiscal 2013, 73.9% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 13.6% in Europe, 8.9% in Asia-Pacific, and 3.6% in other international markets.

Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. The majority of these revenues are generated within our Breast Health segment. Service and other revenues increased 11.3% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in the number of service contracts in our Breast Health business driven by an increase in the installed base of our digital mammography systems, an increase in services not covered by service contracts and higher installation and training revenues related to our 3D Dimensions systems. In addition, within our Diagnostics' segment, we executed a license amendment with Roka Bioscience, Inc. and received $20.1 million of non-recurring revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.

Cost of Product Revenues. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Product gross margin increased to 48.8% in fiscal 2014 compared to 46.3% in fiscal 2013.

Cost of Product Revenues. The cost of product revenues, excluding amortization and impairment of intangible assets, as a percentage of product revenue was 34.9% in fiscal 2014 compared to 38.9% in fiscal 2013. Cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues in the current year decreased in Diagnostics, Breast Health and Skeletal Health and remained relatively consistent in GYN Surgical compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, resulting in an overall improved gross margin.

Diagnostics’ product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the inclusion of $52.4 million in the prior year of additional costs related to the sale of acquired inventory written up to fair value in purchase accounting for the Gen-Probe acquisition. In addition, we were able to recognize contingent revenue under our blood screening collaboration in the current year that we were not able to recognize in fiscal 2013 due to a purchase accounting adjustment as described above. We also had lower Tigris and Panther sales in fiscal 2014 and these instrument sales are typically low margin transactions. Furthermore, we experienced favorable manufacturing variances across many of our products and lower royalty costs for ThinPrep, partially offset by unfavorable pricing on ThinPrep and Aptima sales and increased service costs for placed instruments.

45
Breast Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in 3D Dimensions sales on both a unit basis and as a percentage of total digital mammography systems sales compared to our 2D systems. Our 3D Dimensions systems have higher average sales prices than our 2D systems resulting in higher gross margins. In addition, we had higher software related sales for 3D upgrades and our C-View product, which have higher gross margins than capital equipment sales. 

GYN Surgical’s product costs as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2014 was relatively consistent with fiscal 2013. While we have experienced lower domestic NovaSure volumes and a change in MyoSure product mix, this trend was offset by the increased utilization at our Costa Rica facility in fiscal 2014 as a result of the transfer of our breast biopsy products from our Indianapolis, Indiana facility during the second half of fiscal 2013. 

Skeletal Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in revenue for our Horizon product, which has a higher gross margin than our legacy Discovery products. 

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets relates to acquired developed technology. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 20 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. The economic pattern is based on undiscounted future cash flows. The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily due to certain in-process research and development projects recorded in the Gen-Probe acquisition receiving FDA approval in fiscal 2013. As a result, these approved projects are now being amortized. In addition, we adjusted the estimated life of the MRI breast coils developed technology assets in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 resulting in higher amortization expense.

Impairment of Intangible Assets. In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we evaluated our MRI breast coils product line asset group, which is within our Breast Health segment, for impairment due to our expectation that it would be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. The undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by this asset group over its estimated remaining life were not sufficient to recover its carrying value. At that time, we estimated the fair value of the asset group resulting in an aggregate impairment charge of $28.6 million, comprised of $27.1 million of intangible assets and $1.5 million of property and equipment. The impairment charge was allocated to the long-lived assets, resulting in $26.6 million being allocated to developed technology. The MRI breast coils product line was sold in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2013, we determined that a developed technology asset was impaired due to our decision to cease selling and providing support for such product. As a result, we recorded a $1.7 million charge to record the asset at its fair value.

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues gross margin was 51.2% in fiscal 2014 compared to 48.1% in fiscal 2013. Within our Breast Health segment, the continued conversion of a high percentage of our domestic installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period without a corresponding increase in costs to service these contracts has resulted in higher gross margins. In addition, the $20.1 million of revenue from the Roka Bioscience, Inc. license amendment transaction, which did not have any corresponding costs, increased gross margin. 

46
Operating Expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]** Percentage not meaningful

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 2.8% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in compensation, additional program spend for our virology product line and increased spending for our next generation breast biopsy products. These increases were partially offset by lower headcount, reductions to certain development programs, primarily in the GYN Surgical business as part of our cost containment measures implemented in fiscal 2013 and the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2014, lower integration costs related to the Gen-Probe acquisition, and the divestiture of Lifecodes (in the second quarter of fiscal 2013), which contributed $4.2 million of expense in the prior year. Research and development primarily reflects spending on new product development programs, regulatory compliance and clinical research and trials. At any point in time, we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary from period to period.

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses decreased 3.0% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to lower compensation as a result of headcount reductions and lower spend on trade shows, seminars, consulting services, medical education and travel, primarily as a result of our cost containment measures, and lower integration costs related to the Gen-Probe acquisition. In addition, fiscal 2013 included $4.6 million of expense related to Lifecodes. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in spend for advertising initiatives and market research.

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 14.1% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in the medical device excise tax of $6.2 million (primarily due to the inclusion of this expense for the entire fiscal year in 2014 compared to three quarters in fiscal 2013), legal and consulting fees of $4.7 million incurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 to assist us in our negotiations and response to shareholder activism, higher legal fees for litigation, an increase in certain non-income tax expenses, tax consulting fees and credit card fees related to customer payments, partially offset by lower compensation due to headcount reductions from our cost containment measures and lower integration costs related to the Gen-Probe acquisition. In addition, the first quarter of fiscal 2013 included legal settlement benefits of $8.9 million.

47
Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships, trade names, business licenses and non-compete agreements related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 2 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. The increase in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily due to shortening the remaining life of certain corporate trade names as we decided to phase out their use during the second quarter of fiscal 2014 partially offset by lower amortization from intangibles acquired in the Cytyc, Inc. acquisition in fiscal 2008 as the pattern of economic benefits decreases.

Impairment of Intangible Assets. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we recorded a $5.1 million impairment charge for our existing in-process research and development, or IPR&D, projects from our Gen-Probe acquisition primarily due to a reduction in estimated future revenues from these products. 

Contingent Consideration—Compensation Expense. In connection with our acquisition of TCT International Co., Ltd., or TCT, we were obligated to make contingent earn-out payments. The payments were contingent on future employment and based on achieving certain incremental revenue growth milestones. The measurement period ended in fiscal 2013, and as such, there were no charges in fiscal 2014.

Contingent Consideration—Fair Value Adjustments. In connection with our acquisition of Interlace Medical, Inc., or Interlace, we were required to pay future consideration that was contingent on achieving certain revenue based milestones. As of the acquisition date, we recorded a contingent consideration liability for the estimated fair value of the amount we expected to pay to the former shareholders of Interlace. This liability was based on future revenue projections. We recorded charges of $11.3 million in fiscal 2013 reflecting an increase in the fair value of the liability due to higher revenues from Interlace than originally estimated. The measurement period for this contingent consideration ended in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, and as such, there were no charges in fiscal 2014.

Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, as a result of our company-wide annual budgeting and forecasting process and a full re-evaluation of our existing product development efforts and cost structure, we reduced our short term and long term revenue forecasts and determined that indicators of impairment existed in our Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit. The updated forecast, which reflected pricing pressures, for revenue and profitability was lower than those expected at the time of the Gen-Probe acquisition. As such, the fair value of this reporting unit declined. As a result of performing Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires the completion of a hypothetical purchase price allocation to determine the fair value of the implied goodwill, we recorded a $1.1 billion goodwill impairment charge. For additional information, refer to Note 2— “Intangible Assets and Goodwill” to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Gain on Sale of Intellectual Property. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we recorded a net gain of $53.9 million related to the sale of our Makena asset to K-V Pharmaceutical Company, or KV. On August 4, 2012, KV and certain of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. At that time, KV still owed us $95.0 million. In December 2012, we executed a settlement agreement with KV and released KV from all claims in consideration of a $60.0 million payment. We recorded this payment, net of certain costs, in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. For additional information, please refer to Note 7 contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Restructuring and Divestiture Charges. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, in connection with our acquisition of Gen-Probe, we implemented a restructuring action to consolidate our Diagnostics operations by decreasing headcount and closing our legacy molecular diagnostics operations in Madison, Wisconsin. We also finalized our decision to transfer production of our interventional breast products from our Indianapolis facility to our Costa Rica facility. In fiscal 2013 and in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we implemented cost containment measures that primarily resulted in headcount reductions. In the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2014, we terminated certain personnel at our Hitec Imaging operation in Germany, and as part of ongoing management changes and structural refinement, we terminated certain executives and employees on a worldwide basis. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the related severance and benefit charges are being recognized either ratably over the respective required employee service periods or when benefits become probable for contractual and statutory benefits, and other charges are being recognized as incurred. In fiscal 2014 and 2013, we recorded aggregate charges of $51.7 million and $32.8 million, respectively, from these actions. The charges recorded in fiscal 2014 primarily related to severance and benefits and include a $3.1 million impairment charge to record certain buildings at our Warstein, Germany location to their estimated fair value. In addition, these charges include a loss on divestiture of $5.3 million related to the sale of our MRI breast coils product line in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. The charges in fiscal 2013 primarily related to severance and benefits. In addition, in fiscal 2013 we recorded a net gain of $0.6 million primarily related to the sale 

48
of our Lifecodes business in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. For additional information, please refer to Note 4 contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Interest Income.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest income remained flat in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013.

Interest Expense.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense consists primarily of the cash interest costs and the related amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs on our outstanding debt. The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily due to principal payments in fiscal 2013 and 2014, which included $325.0 million of voluntary pre-payments, of amounts borrowed under our Credit Agreement, lower weighted-average interest rates due to refinancing both the Term Loan A and Term Loan B facilities, and the redemption of $405.0 million in principal amount of our 2.00% Convertible Notes due 2037, or the 2007 Notes, in December 2013. These decreases were partially offset by additional interest expense from the accretion of principal on our 2.00% Convertible Notes due 2043, or the 2013 Notes, at 4.0% annually.

Debt Extinguishment Loss.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we refinanced the Term Loan B facility of our Credit Agreement and voluntarily prepaid $25.0 million of principal. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $4.5 million for the write off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we made a $100.0 million voluntary pre-payment on our Term Loan B facility. As a result, the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs aggregating $2.9 million related to this prepayment was recorded as a debt extinguishment loss.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we refinanced the Term Loan B facility of the Credit Agreement and made a voluntary prepayment of $200.0 million of principal. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $6.0 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs. In the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we refinanced the Term Loan A facility of the Credit Agreement and certain existing creditors opted not to participate in such refinancing. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $3.2 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs.

Other (Expense) Income, net.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In fiscal 2014, this account was primarily comprised of other-than-temporary impairment charges on cost-method equity investments of $6.9 million and net foreign currency exchange losses of $1.8 million, partially offset by gains of $3.8 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts and mutual funds related to our deferred compensation plan. 

In fiscal 2013, this account was primarily comprised of gains on our investments for our deferred compensation plan of $4.7 million, a $2.0 million gain on the sale of a cost-method investment, $1.3 million from insurance and investment 

49
recoveries, and net foreign currency exchange gains of $0.5 million. Partially offsetting these gains were other-than-temporary impairment charges for cost-method equity investments of $6.4 million.

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2014 was 63.9% compared to a benefit of 1.7% on the pretax loss in fiscal 2013.  For fiscal 2014, the effective tax rate was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to unbenefited foreign losses partially offset by the domestic production activities deduction benefit.

For fiscal 2013, the effective tax rate was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge, non-deductible contingent consideration expense related to the TCT and Interlace acquisitions and unbenefited foreign losses, partially offset by the domestic production activities deduction benefit and the release of a $19.9 million valuation allowance related to capital losses utilized to offset capital gains generated during the year.

Segment Results of Operations

We report our business as four segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report. We measure segment performance based on total revenues and operating income or loss. Revenues from product sales of each of these segments are described in further detail above. The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment.

Diagnostics.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diagnostics revenues decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the decrease in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013, primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $1.1 billion recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 related to our Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit discussed above.

Gross profit in absolute dollars increased primarily due to the inclusion in the prior fiscal year of fair value adjustments of $52.4 million for acquired Gen-Probe inventory that did not recur in the current year. In addition, we were able to record contingent revenue under our blood screening collaboration in the current fiscal year that had previously been recorded as unbilled accounts receivable in purchase accounting as described above. Furthermore, we experienced favorable manufacturing variances across many of our products, lower royalty costs for ThinPrep, and lower instrumentation sales, partially offset by lower ThinPrep volumes and slightly lower pricing on ThinPrep and Aptima sales. As a result, the gross margin improved to 46.8% in fiscal 2014 from 41.4% in fiscal 2013.

Operating expenses, excluding the goodwill impairment charge noted above, decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to a decrease of $80.0 million of contingent consideration charges related to TCT, the divestiture of Lifecodes, which contributed $9.4 million of operating expenses in fiscal 2013, and lower Gen-Probe integration costs, restructuring charges, and compensation from headcount reductions as part of our cost containment measures. These decreases were partially offset by the $5.1 million IPR&D charge, increases in spending on research and development for our virology products and market research, higher intangible asset amortization expense of $4.2 million due to changes in estimated useful lives, and an increase in the medical device excise tax of $2.8 million. As discussed above, the prior fiscal year included a $53.9 million gain related to the settlement with KV for the sale of our rights to Makena.

50
Breast Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Breast Health revenues increased in the fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the $28.0 million increase in service revenues and $11.6 million increase in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to higher operating expenses partially offset by an increase in gross profit in absolute dollars. Gross profit in absolute dollars increased primarily due to the increase in product and service revenues and the favorable product mix between 3D Dimensions and our 2D systems partially offset by a $24.9 million increase in developed technology asset impairment charges related to our impairment assessment of the MRI breast coils product line in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 discussed above and higher intangible asset amortization expense. As a result, overall gross margin declined slightly to 50.1% in fiscal 2014 compared to 50.2% in fiscal 2013.

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to higher restructuring and divestiture charges, which includes corporate allocated amounts and the loss on disposal of the MRI breast coils product line of $5.3 million, higher research and development expenditures primarily for next generation breast biopsy devices, higher compensation and an increase in the medical device excise tax of $2.6 million and intangible asset and property impairment charges related to the MRI breast coils product line aggregating $1.8 million.

GYN Surgical.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GYN Surgical revenues remained relatively flat in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 as discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to a decrease in operating expenses while gross profit in absolute dollars was relatively flat as revenues were consistent year over year. Gross margin was 56.9% in both fiscal 2014 and 2013.

Operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2014 primarily due to the $11.3 million of contingent consideration charges related to the Interlace earn-out included in the prior year. Additional reductions in operating expenses were primarily due to headcount reductions, lower research and development program expenditures and lower marketing related expenditures, all as a result of our cost containment measures, and lower intangible asset amortization expense. These decreases were offset by higher legal fees associated with our ongoing litigation, restructuring charges and an increase in the medical device excise tax.

51
Skeletal Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Skeletal Health revenues increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in product revenues of $0.9 million discussed above and a slight increase in service and other revenue. 

Operating income increased in fiscal 2014 compared to the prior year primarily due to the increase in gross profit in absolute dollars as a result of higher sales of our higher margin Horizon product and lower operating expenses. The decrease in operating expenses was primarily driven by a decrease in restructuring charges.

52
Fiscal Year Ended September 28, 2013 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 29, 2012 

Product Revenues. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diagnostics product revenues increased 63.4% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to the inclusion of Gen-Probe’s product sales (acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012), which contributed $483.1 million of additional revenue in fiscal 2013, partially offset by lower ThinPrep revenues of $28.5 million and fiscal 2013 had one less week than fiscal 2012, which was a 53-week fiscal period. The decline in ThinPrep revenue was primarily due to lower domestic volumes and, to a lesser extent, lower average selling prices internationally. We attributed the domestic volume decline to an increase in testing intervals as a result of recent screening recommendations from governmental agencies and professional organizations. We also experienced lower average selling prices in China, at least in part, due to restructuring the sales channel as we move toward using a combination of dealers and our direct sales force to gain broader market coverage compared to principally a direct sales strategy in fiscal 2012. However, international ThinPrep unit volumes were higher in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. We also experienced a decrease in our Rapid Fetal Fibronectin test revenue compared to the prior year primarily due to lower domestic volumes. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in revenues from our sale of Cervista HPV products primarily in the United States, as we continued to gain new customer accounts and increase unit sales to existing customers. The inclusion of Gen-Probe’s results was partially impacted by our blood screening collaboration. Pursuant to the collaboration, a portion of Gen-Probe’s revenue is contingent on donations testing revenue earned by Novartis (currently our partner is Grifols). As a result, amounts to be received for this contingent revenue related to inventory on hand and not yet utilized by Novartis’ customers as of the date of our acquisition of Gen-Probe were recorded as unbilled accounts receivable on the balance sheet in purchase accounting and were not recorded as revenue in our results of operations. In fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 this contingent revenue of $23.5 million and $11.6 million, respectively, was not recognized in our results of operations. 

Breast Health product revenues increased 0.7% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. Our digital mammography systems revenue increased $23.0 million in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to the increase in our 3D Dimensions systems revenue of $52.5 million in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 as we sold more 3D Dimensions units with higher average selling prices in the United States, partially offset by slightly lower average selling prices internationally. Partially offsetting the increase in 3D Dimensions sales in fiscal 2013, we had lower unit sales and, to a lesser extent, lower average selling prices of our 2D Dimensions systems and Selenia systems on a worldwide basis. We also experienced a decline in sales of related components and workstation products of $7.0 million in fiscal 2013 compared to the prior year primarily because customers that upgrade to 3D Dimensions do not always require new versions of these related products. Our breast biopsy products revenue increased $7.8 million in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to an increase in the number of Eviva biopsy devices sold in the United States and, to a lesser extent, internationally, and an increase in the number of Celero devices sold in the United States. Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in the unit sales and average selling price of our ATEC devices, which we attribute to the introduction and increased sales of our Eviva biopsy devices. Additionally, in fiscal 2013, we experienced an $8.0 million decline in revenue from our organic photoconductor materials business as this non-core product line continues to experience pricing pressures in a competitive market space. We decided to phase out this product line in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.

GYN Surgical product revenues decreased 1.9% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to the decline in sales of NovaSure devices of $24.0 million and an $11.3 million decrease due to the discontinuance of Adiana system sales. In addition, fiscal 2013 had one less week than fiscal 2012. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in MyoSure system sales, including our new Aquilex fluid management system used with our MyoSure devices, of $29.5 million. We experienced a decrease in the number of NovaSure devices sold in the United States, which we primarily attributed to the continuing effect of unemployment and economic uncertainty and the trend toward higher insurance co-payments and deductibles, resulting in cost-conscious patients delaying surgery or opting for lower cost and generally less effective alternatives. Partially offsetting this decrease, we sold more units internationally in fiscal 2013 compared to the prior year. The discontinuance of Adiana system sales was due to our decision to cease manufacturing, marketing and selling the product as of 

53
the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2012, determining it was not financially viable and would not become so in the foreseeable future. The increase in MyoSure system revenue in fiscal 2013 was substantially due to an increase in units sold domestically offset slightly by lower average selling prices due to the introduction of new variations of the primary MyoSure device compared to fiscal 2012.

Skeletal Health product revenues decreased 5.3% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to a decline of $5.2 million in our osteoporosis assessment system sales worldwide and lower average selling prices internationally, partially offset by an increase in mini C-arm sales of $1.6 million, primarily due to the introduction of our new Insight FD product.

In fiscal 2013, 73.9% of product sales were generated in the United States, 13.6% in Europe, 8.9% in Asia-Pacific, and 3.6% in other international markets. In fiscal 2012, 72.8% of product sales were generated in the United States, 11.9% in Europe, 9.3% in Asia-Pacific, and 6.0% in other international markets.

The increase in product revenues in the United States as a percent of consolidated product revenues in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 was primarily due to the inclusion of Gen-Probe and to a lesser extent higher sales of our 3D Dimensions systems. The increase in European product revenues as a percent of consolidated product revenues in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 was primarily due to the inclusion of Gen-Probe product sales in Europe and, to a lesser extent, a higher percentage of Selenia system unit sales to total sales in that region.

Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues increased 13.5% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily in our Breast Health business due to an increase in the number of service contracts driven by an increase in the installed base of our digital mammography systems. In addition, the inclusion of Gen-Probe contributed an additional $24.4 million, primarily comprised of other revenue, in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. Partially offsetting these increases was one less week in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.

Cost of Product Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

** Percentage not meaningful

Product gross margin decreased to 46.3% in fiscal 2013 compared to 50.6% in fiscal 2012 primarily due to higher intangible asset amortization expense and charges for additional costs related to the sale of acquired inventory written up to fair value in purchase accounting.

Cost of Product Revenues. The cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues was 38.9% in fiscal 2013 compared to 37.2% in fiscal 2012. Cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues in the current fiscal year increased moderately in Diagnostics and slightly in Breast Health and decreased in GYN Surgical and to a lesser extent in Skeletal Health compared to the prior year, resulting in an overall increased rate in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.

54
Diagnostics’ gross margin declined in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 due to the inclusion of Gen-Probe, which included $52.4 million of additional costs related to the sale of acquired inventory written up to fair value in purchase accounting in fiscal 2013 compared to $19.9 million of such costs in fiscal 2012. We also recorded impairment charges of $6.3 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 to write down certain instruments and related inventory due to our plan to transition certain customers to our Panther instrumentation from our HTA instrument. In addition, Gen-Probe’s gross margin since acquisition has been lower than its historical gross margin rate primarily due to the purchase accounting effect on our collaboration agreement with Grifols in our blood screening business. Based on the Grifols collaboration terms, a portion of Gen-Probe’s revenue is contingent on donations testing revenue earned by Grifols, however, Gen-Probe recognizes the full product cost upon shipment. As a result, amounts to be received for this contingent revenue related to inventory on hand and not yet utilized by Grifols’ customers as of the acquisition date were recorded as unbilled accounts receivable on the balance sheet in purchase accounting and were not recorded as revenue in our results of operations. This contingent revenue not recognized in our results of operations was $23.5 million and $11.6 million in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, respectively. Also contributing to the decline in the Diagnostics gross margin rate was a decline in domestic ThinPrep sales and lower average selling prices in China and other international markets, unfavorable manufacturing and overhead variances, higher service costs, depreciation of equipment at customer sites, and distribution costs.

Breast Health experienced a slight decrease in gross margin in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to the lower gross margin rate in our breast biopsy business from higher sales of our Eviva disposable, which carries lower gross margins due to higher manufacturing costs and royalty costs compared to our ATEC disposable, and lower average selling prices of our ATEC disposables domestically. We also experienced unfavorable absorption and higher production spend for this line of business primarily due to the transfer of our manufacturing lines from Indianapolis to Costa Rica, resulting in production of some of our breast biopsy products at two facilities. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in unit sales and average selling prices of our 3D Dimensions systems in the United States coupled with a decrease in our 2D digital systems sales as a percentage of total unit sales in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. This 2D digital systems decrease was primarily related to our Selenia system and, to a lesser extent, our 2D Dimensions systems. Selenia systems have lower average selling prices and gross margins than our Dimensions systems.

GYN Surgical gross margin increased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 due to favorable manufacturing absorption and the discontinuance of the Adiana system in fiscal 2012, offset by the impact of lower NovaSure system sales. The Adiana system had a much lower gross margin rate compared to the NovaSure and MyoSure systems. During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we determined the Adiana product was not financially viable and would not become so in the foreseeable future. As a result, we ceased manufacturing, marketing and selling our Adiana system and recorded a charge of $19.1 million in fiscal 2012 for the write-off of inventory, manufacturing equipment and equipment at customer sites, and contractual purchase orders for which there was no expected future use of the materials and components. In addition, the improved gross margin in fiscal 2013 is partially due to the increase in MyoSure system sales and the transfer of its production to Costa Rica, which has resulted in overall lower production costs.

Skeletal Health had a slightly higher gross margin in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to favorable product mix.

Amortization of Intangible Assets. The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 is primarily due to the inclusion of Gen-Probe, which accounted for $112.6 million of additional expense, partially offset by fiscal 2013 having one less week compared to fiscal 2012.

Impairment of Intangible Assets. During the third quarter of fiscal 2013, we determined that a developed technology asset was impaired, primarily due to our decision to cease selling and providing support for such product. As a result, we recorded a charge of $1.7 million to record the asset at its fair value.

55
Cost of Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues gross margin was 48.1% in fiscal 2013 compared to 45.1% in fiscal 2012. Within our Breast Health segment, the continued conversion of a high percentage of our domestic installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period without a corresponding increase in costs to service such contracts has resulted in higher gross margins, partially offset by increased warranty, higher spare parts and additional headcount costs.

Operating Expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

** Percentage not meaningful

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 50.8% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to $76.0 million of additional expense from the inclusion of Gen-Probe. Partially offsetting this increase was a decline in compensation and benefits from lower headcount and bonus expense in the legacy Hologic businesses. In addition, expenses were lower in fiscal 2013 due to a decrease in prototype materials and consulting expense based on the status and timing of various projects and the discontinuance of Adiana development projects in fiscal 2012. 

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 6.1% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to $39.0 million of additional expense from the inclusion of Gen-Probe, higher compensation for additional sales personnel worldwide, and integration costs related to the Gen-Probe acquisition. In fiscal 2013, we also had higher marketing spend for our initiatives related to our 3D Dimensions tomosynthesis products and MyoSure system, and higher training and travel expenses for our increased sales personnel headcount. Partially offsetting these increases in fiscal 2013 was the absence of expenditures for our NovaSure direct-to-consumer advertising campaign, which was completed in fiscal 2012, the discontinuance of the Adiana system in fiscal 2012, decreased expenditures for international trade shows, meetings and medical education and a reduction of headcount in the second half of fiscal 2013. In addition, there was one less week in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.

56
General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 3.3% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to $41.4 million of additional expense from the inclusion of Gen-Probe, integration costs related to the Gen-Probe acquisition, the medical device excise tax of $15.7 million, higher compensation and benefits, and an increase in information technology service contracts from an increase of licenses, partially offset by lower acquisition transaction costs to third-parties and lower consulting costs as well as a reduction in headcount in the second half of fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2013, these increases were partially offset by legal settlement benefits of $8.9 million, lower international bad debt expense, and lower charges for sales and other non-income tax audits as compared to fiscal 2012. In addition, there was one less week in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.

Amortization of Intangible Assets. The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 was primarily due to the inclusion of Gen-Probe, which accounted for $45.0 million of additional expense, partially offset by one less week in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.

Contingent Consideration—Compensation Expense. The amounts recorded in fiscal 2013 relate solely to TCT, and in fiscal 2012, primarily relate to TCT. The measurement period for the TCT earn-out was completed in fiscal 2013.

Contingent Consideration—Fair Value Adjustments. In connection with our acquisitions of Sentinelle Medical and Interlace, we were required to pay future consideration that was contingent on achieving certain revenue based milestones. The Sentinelle Medical final measurement period ended in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, and as a result the charges recorded in fiscal 2013 relate solely to Interlace. We recorded a charge of $11.3 million in fiscal 2013 reflecting an increase in the fair value of the liability due to higher revenues for Interlace than estimated. In fiscal 2012, we recorded a charge of $38.5 million related to an increase in estimated Interlace revenues resulting in a charge of $41.8 million offset by a benefit of the Sentinelle Medical liability of $3.3 million due to a reduction in estimated revenues. The measurement period for the Interlace earn-out was completed in fiscal 2013.

Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, as a result of our company-wide annual budgeting and forecasting process and a full re-evaluation of our existing product development efforts and cost structure, we reduced our short term and long term revenue forecasts and determined that indicators of impairment existed in our Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit. The Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit is primarily comprised of our Aptima business acquired in the Gen-Probe acquisition and the molecular diagnostics business acquired in the Third Wave acquisition. The updated forecast, which reflected pricing pressures, for revenue and profitability were lower than those expected at the time of the Gen-Probe acquisition. As such, the fair value of this reporting unit declined. As a result of performing Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires the completion of a hypothetical purchase price allocation to determine the fair value of the implied goodwill, we recorded a $1.1 billion goodwill impairment charge.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we recorded an impairment charge of $5.8 million related to our MammoSite reporting unit, which is included in our Breast Health segment. The fair value of this reporting unit declined from fiscal 2011 primarily due to our reassessment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 of the overall market size of breast brachytherapy and long-term growth projections. For additional information, refer to Note 2— “Intangible Assets and Goodwill” to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Gain on Sale of Intellectual Property. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we recorded a net gain of $53.9 million related to the sale of our Makena assets to KV. On August 4, 2012, KV and certain of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. In December 2012, we and KV executed a settlement agreement, which became effective on December 28, 2012. Under the settlement agreement, we released KV from all claims in consideration of a $60.0 million payment. We recorded this amount net of certain costs, including contingent fees and amounts due to the inventor. We will receive no more payments from KV. During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we received a scheduled payment of $12.5 million from KV, which was recorded net of amounts owed to the original inventor of Makena. For additional information, please refer to Note 7 contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Acquired In-Process Research and Development. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we acquired certain research and development assets that were determined to have no future alternative use and recorded a $4.5 million charge within our GYN Surgical segment.

Restructuring and Divestiture Charges. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, in connection with our acquisition of Gen-Probe, we implemented a restructuring action to consolidate our Diagnostics operations by decreasing headcount and transferring our legacy molecular diagnostics operations in Madison, Wisconsin to San Diego, California. We also finalized our decision to transfer production of our interventional breast products from our Indianapolis facility to our Costa Rica facility. In addition, we transfered our Selenium panel coating production line from Germany to Newark, Delaware. In the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2013, we implemented additional restructuring actions to reduce expenses which included terminating 

57
employees. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the majority of severance and benefit charges were being recognized ratably over the respective required employee service periods, and in certain circumstances we were recording charges pursuant to contractual or statutory requirements. Other charges, such as facility closure costs are being recognized as incurred. In fiscal 2013 and 2012, we recorded restructuring charges of $32.8 million and $17.5 million, respectively, which were primarily comprised of severance and related benefits, including stock compensation for acceleration of equity awards. For additional information, please refer to Note 4 contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report. 

Interest Income. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest income decreased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to lower rates on funds invested in sweep accounts.

Interest Expense.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 was primarily due to debt borrowed under the Credit Agreement and sale of Senior Notes in connection with our Gen-Probe acquisition in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2013, we incurred additional expenses of $4.1 million related to our retirement of $370.0 million in aggregate principal of our 2007 Notes for $370.0 million in aggregate principal of 2013 Notes. This exchange enabled us to extend the first put date to December 15, 2017 as well as the subsequent put dates with the conversion price of the notes remaining at approximately $38.59. In addition, in fiscal 2013, we incurred additional expenses of $3.5 million related to our refinancing of the Term Loan A and Term Loan B facilities under the Credit Agreement, which lowered the interest rates on these facilities by 100 basis points and 75 basis points, respectively. The majority of the refinancings was accounted for as a modification for accounting purposes and the pro-rata amount of issuance costs were expensed and not capitalized. Partially offsetting this increase was lower amortization of our convertible notes’ debt discount.

Debt Extinguishment Loss.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we refinanced the Term Loan B facility of the Credit Agreement and made a voluntary prepayment of $200.0 million of principal. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $6.0 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs. In the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we refinanced the Term Loan A facility of the Credit Agreement and certain existing creditors opted not to participate in such refinancing. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $3.2 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we retired $500.0 million in aggregate principal of our 2007 Notes for $500.0 million in aggregate principal of new 2.00% Convertible Notes due 2042, or the 2012 Notes. This exchange enabled us to extend the first put date to March 1, 2018 as well as the subsequent put dates. In consideration, the equity conversion price of the notes was reduced to approximately $31.18 from $38.59, and the cash coupon payment period was extended four and a quarter more years, consistent with extending the first put date, instead of accreting the coupon to the principal as required under the original terms. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $42.3 million, which includes the write-off of the pro-rata allocation of deferred financing costs.

58
Other Income (Expense), net.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In fiscal 2013, this account was primarily comprised of gains on our investments for our deferred compensation plan of $4.7 million, a $2.0 million gain on the sale of a cost-method investment, $1.3 million from insurance and investment recoveries, and net foreign currency exchange gains of $0.5 million. Partially offsetting these gains were other-than-temporary impairment charges for cost-method equity investments of $6.4 million.

In fiscal 2012, this account was primarily comprised of gains on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan of $3.2 million, net foreign currency transaction gains of $0.8 million, and other miscellaneous gains.

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2013 was a benefit of 1.7% on the pretax loss compared to 19.4% of the pretax loss in fiscal 2012. For fiscal 2013, the effective tax rate was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge, non-deductible contingent consideration expense related to the TCT and Interlace acquisitions and unbenefited foreign losses, partially offset by the domestic production activities deduction benefit and the release of a $19.9 million valuation allowance related to capital losses utilized to offset capital gains generated during the year.

Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2012 was significantly impacted by non-deductible contingent consideration compensation expense related to the TCT, Interlace and Sentinelle Medical acquisitions, nondeductible acquisition costs, a nondeductible goodwill impairment charge, and a net increase in income tax reserves and valuation allowances on certain foreign losses. The unfavorable tax impact of these items was partially offset by the domestic production activities deduction benefit and a loss claimed related to the discontinuance of the Adiana product line. 

Segment Results of Operations

Diagnostics. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

** Percentage not meaningful

Diagnostics revenues increased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to the increase in product revenues discussed above, which is principally attributable to the inclusion of Gen-Probe for a full year.

Operating loss for this business segment increased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012, primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $1.1 billion recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 related to our Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit discussed above.

While gross profit in absolute dollars increased in fiscal 2013 due primarily to the inclusion of Gen-Probe as discussed above, higher operating expenses, excluding the impact of the goodwill impairment charge, more than offset the gross margin impact. Gross margin decreased to 41.4% in fiscal 2013 compared to 50.5% in fiscal 2012, which was primarily attributable to the inclusion of Gen-Probe for the full year and incremental charges related to developed technology intangible asset amortization expense of $112.6 million and inventory written up to fair value in purchase accounting of $32.5 million. In addition, we recorded impairment charges of $6.3 million in the fourth quarter to write down certain instruments and related 

59
inventory due to our plan to transition certain customers to our Panther instrumentation from our HTA instrumentation. Gross margin was also impacted by lower ThinPrep volumes in the U.S. and lower average selling prices in China and other international markets, unfavorable manufacturing and overhead variances, higher service costs, depreciation of equipment at customer sites, and distribution costs.

Operating expenses, excluding the goodwill impairment charge noted above, increased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to the inclusion of Gen-Probe, which contributed an incremental $197.9 million of expenses comprised of research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative and amortization expense. In addition, this segment incurred incremental charges and expenses for restructuring of $4.0 million, TCT contingent consideration expense of $4.6 million, medical device excise taxes of $6.8 million and integration and retention costs. Partially offsetting these increases were reductions in headcount, bonus expense, international trade shows and marketing initiatives and project spend in the legacy Hologic businesses. In addition, in fiscal 2013, we recorded a net gain of $53.9 million related to the settlement with KV for the sale of our rights to Makena discussed above, and in the prior year second quarter, we recorded a net gain of $12.4 million related to the Makena sale.

Breast Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to the $25.5 million increase in service revenue and the $3.8 million in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to an increase in gross profit dollars from higher revenues discussed above and lower operating expenses.

In fiscal 2013, overall gross margin increased to 50.2% compared to 49.4% in the prior year. Product gross margin decreased slightly to 49.3% in fiscal 2013 compared to 49.9% in fiscal 2012 as discussed above. Operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to a gain on the settlement of class-action litigation of $5.7 million, lower clinical trials spend, lower compensation from headcount reductions, and lower corporate allocations due to the Gen-Probe acquisition. Partially offsetting these decreases were incremental restructuring charges of $7.1 million, and the medical device excise tax of $5.3 million.

GYN Surgical.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GYN Surgical revenues decreased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 due to the decrease in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2013, gross profit in absolute dollars increased compared to fiscal 2012 primarily because fiscal 2012 included $19.1 million of charges recorded in cost of product sales related to the discontinuance of the Adiana system discussed above. Gross margin improved to 56.9% in fiscal 2013 from 50.3% in fiscal 2012. Gross margin also improved primarily due to higher sales of our MyoSure system, which was partially offset by a reduction in NovaSure system sales and higher intangible asset amortization expense of $2.9 million.

Operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2013 primarily due a reduction in Interlace contingent consideration charges of $30.5 million, a reduction in advertising expenditures for our NovaSure system’s direct-to-consumer advertising campaign which ended in fiscal 2012, lower legal expenses primarily relating to a lawsuit settlement in fiscal 2012, lower marketing, 

60
medical education and research and development expenses due to the discontinuance of the Adiana product line, and lower compensation due to headcount reductions. In addition, in fiscal 2012, we recorded charges for an ongoing sales tax audit. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher spend on developing the next generation NovaSure device, marketing initiatives for the MyoSure system and the medical device excise tax of $2.7 million.

Skeletal Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Skeletal Health revenues decreased in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to the decrease in product revenues of $3.5 million discussed above and reduction in service revenues of $2.0 million. Operating income decreased in fiscal 2013 compared to the prior year primarily due to lower revenues and higher operating expenses. Higher operating expenses were primarily driven by restructuring charges of $3.8 million and the medical device excise tax of $0.9 million.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At September 27, 2014, we had $946.2 million of working capital, and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $736.1 million. Our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by $86.4 million during fiscal 2014 principally due to principal payments on our outstanding debt and capital expenditures partially offset by cash generated from operations and net proceeds from stock option exercises.

In fiscal 2014, our operating activities provided us with $508.4 million of cash, which included net income of $17.3 million, non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization aggregating $523.2 million, non-cash interest expense of $68.7 million related to our outstanding debt, stock-based compensation expense of $50.0 million, asset impairment charges of $38.4 million, and debt extinguishment losses of $7.4 million. These adjustments to net income were partially offset by a decrease in net deferred tax liabilities of $243.1 million, primarily from the amortization of intangible assets. Cash provided by operations included a net cash inflow of $44.5 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities were driven primarily by a decrease in prepaid income taxes of $22.4 million due to the timing of payments versus their utilization for our tax liability, a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $17.3 million, an increase in deferred revenue of $15.1 million primarily due to an increase in our installed base of digital mammography systems, an increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $14.7 million primarily due to a net increase in bonus and benefits accruals, and restructuring and professional fees, partially offset by contingent consideration payments and lower accrued interest on our debt based on the timing of payments. These cash flow increases were partially offset by an increase in inventories of $44.7 million for expected demand and to build up our safety stock of instruments and assays primarily in our Diagnostics business.

In fiscal 2014, our investing activities utilized $67.0 million of cash primarily for capital expenditures of $80.2 million, which consisted primarily of the placement of equipment under customer usage agreements and purchases of manufacturing equipment and computer hardware, partially offset by proceeds of $10.1 million received from the divestiture of product lines, and net sales of mutual funds and insurance contracts of $6.5 million to pay participant withdrawals from our deferred compensation plan due to employee terminations.

In fiscal 2014, our financing activities used cash of $525.1 million, primarily due to $595.0 million in debt principal payments comprised of $405.0 million to pay off our 2007 Notes and $190.0 million under our Credit Agreement, and $9.8 million to pay employee-related taxes withheld for the net share settlement of vested restricted stock units. Partially offsetting these uses of cash were proceeds of $81.4 million from our equity plans, primarily from the exercise of stock options.

Debt

We had total recorded debt outstanding of $4.3 billion at September 27, 2014, which is comprised of amounts outstanding under our amended Credit Agreement of $2.03 billion (principal $2.05 billion), Senior Notes of $1.0 billion and convertible notes of $1.24 billion (principal $1.32 billion). No amounts were outstanding under our Revolving Facility.

61
Credit Agreement

The facilities under the amended Credit Agreement initially consisted of:

•$1.0 billion senior secured tranche A term loan, or Term Loan A, with a final maturity date of August 1, 2017;

•$1.5 billion senior secured tranche B term loan, or Term Loan B, with a final maturity date of August 1, 2019; and

•$300.0 million secured revolving credit facility, or Revolving Facility, with a final maturity date of August 1, 2017.

As of September 27, 2014, the interest rates under our Term Loan A facility and Term Loan B facility were 2.15% and 3.25%, respectively, and the principal amounts outstanding were $900.0 million and $1.15 billion, respectively. 

The credit facilities are secured by first-priority liens on, and a first-priority security interest in, substantially all of our assets and the assets of the Guarantors, including all of the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. subsidiaries owned by us and the Guarantors, 65% of the capital stock of certain of our first-tier foreign subsidiaries and all intercompany debt.

We are required to make scheduled principal payments under the Term Loan A facility in an increasing amount, which is currently $25.0 million per three month period and increase to $50.0 million per three month period commencing October 31, 2015, and under the Term Loan B facility in equal installments of $3.75 million per three month period beginning on October 31, 2012 and for 27 three month periods thereafter. The remaining balance of $400 million for Term Loan A and $1.07 billion for Term Loan B is due at maturity. Any amounts outstanding under the Revolving Facility are due at maturity. We are required to make principal repayments first, pro rata among the term loan facilities, and second to the Revolving Facility from specified excess cash flows from operations and from the net proceeds of specified types of asset sales, debt issuances, insurance recoveries and equity offerings. Subject to certain limitations, we may voluntarily pre-pay any of the credit facilities without premium or penalty.

The amended Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants customarily applicable to senior secured credit facilities, including covenants restricting our ability and the ability of the Guarantors, subject to negotiated exceptions, to incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on their assets, engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, pay dividends, repurchase or redeem capital stock or make other distributions, voluntarily prepay other indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliated persons, make investments, and change the nature of their businesses.

The amended Credit Agreement contains two financial ratio covenants measured as of the last day of each fiscal quarter: a total net leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. The total net leverage ratio covenant is currently 6.00:1.00, which then decreases over time to 4.00:1.00 for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2017 and each fiscal quarter thereafter. The interest coverage ratio is currently 3.25:1.00, which increases over time to 3.75:1.00 for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2017 and each quarter thereafter. The total net leverage ratio covenant is defined as the ratio of our consolidated net debt as of the quarter end to our consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the four-fiscal quarter period ending on the measurement date. The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of our consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the prior four-fiscal quarter period ending on the measurement date to adjusted consolidated cash interest expense for the same measurement period. These terms, and the calculation thereof, are defined in further detail in the amended Credit Agreement. As of September 27, 2014, we were in compliance with these covenants.

Senior Notes

On August 1, 2012, we completed a private placement of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes at an offering price of 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes are our general senior unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Guarantors. The Senior Notes mature on August 1, 2020 and bear interest at the rate of 6.25% per year, payable semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on February 1, 2013.

The indenture for our Senior Notes contains customarily applicable affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants restricting our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries’, subject to negotiated exceptions and qualifications, to: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends or repurchase or redeem capital stock or make other distributions; make certain investments; incur liens; enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates; and sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies. We are not required to maintain any financial covenants with respect to the Senior Notes.

62
We may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at any time and from time to time before August 1, 2015, at a redemption price equal to 106.250% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. We also have the option to redeem the Senior Notes on or after: August 1, 2015 through July 31, 2016 at 103.125% of par; August 1, 2016 through July 31, 2017 at 102.083% of par; August 1, 2017 through July 31, 2018 at 101.042% of par; and August 1, 2018 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if we undergo a change of control, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date.

Convertible Notes

At September 27, 2014, our convertible notes, in the aggregate principal amount of $1.32 billion, are recorded at $1.24 billion, which is net of the unamortized debt discount attributed to the embedded conversion feature of the convertible notes. These notes consist of:

•$450 million of our 2.00% Convertible Exchange Senior Notes due 2037 issued in November 2010 (2010 Notes);

•$500 million of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2042 issued in March 2012 (2012 Notes); and

•$370 million of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2043 issued in February 2013 (2013 Notes).

The 2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes are collectively referred to herein as the convertible notes. Interest on the 2013 Notes is currently being accreted to principal, from their date of issuance, at a rate of 4.00% per year until and including December 15, 2017, and 2.00% per year thereafter. All other notes bear interest at a rate of 2.00% per year on the original principal amount, payable semi-annually in arrears until their first put date and thereafter accrete principal at the rate of 2.00% per year. In addition, under certain circumstances contingent interest may be payable under the convertible notes after each of their first put date. 

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2010 Notes on each of December 15, 2016, 2020, 2025, on December 13, 2030 and on December 14, 2035, or upon a fundamental change, as provided in the indenture for the 2010 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2012 Notes on each of March 1, 2018, 2022, 2027 and 2032, and on March 2, 2037, or upon a fundamental change, as provided in the indenture for the 2012 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2013 Notes on each of December 15, 2017, 2022, 2027, 2032 and 2037, or upon a fundamental change, as provided in the indenture for the 2013 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.

We may redeem any of the 2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes beginning December 19, 2016, March 6, 2018, and December 15, 2017, respectively. We may redeem all or a portion of the 2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes (i.e., in cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock) at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the applicable redemption date.

We have recorded deferred tax liabilities related to the convertible notes original issuance discount, representing the spread between the cash coupon rate and the higher interest rate deductible for tax purposes. When our convertible notes are extinguished, we are required to recapture the original issuance discount previously deducted for tax purposes.

Stock Repurchase Program

On November 11, 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $250 million of our outstanding common stock over the next three years. Under the stock repurchase program, we are authorized to repurchase, from time-to-time, shares of our outstanding common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions in the United States. The timing and amount of stock repurchases will be determined based upon our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The stock repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time, and we have no obligation to repurchase any amount of our common stock under the program. Through September 27, 2014 we had not repurchased any shares of our common stock under this program.

63
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of September 27, 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Included within long-term debt obligations, we have three issuances (2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes) of convertible notes which can first be put to us on December 15, 2016 ($450 million principal), March 1, 2018 ($500 million principal), and December 15, 2017 ($370 million principal) and we have assumed for purpose of the above table that the principal amounts for each issuance will be paid off when they first can be put to us, which is in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018. The 2013 Notes also have principal accretion of 4% annually, which is included in the principal amount in the 3-5 years column above. The amounts in the table do not include deferred tax liabilities for the recapture of the original issuance discount.

(2)The financing leases represent two leases for an office building and a manufacturing facility, which were required to be recorded on our balance sheet under U.S. GAAP. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

(3)Purchase obligations primarily represent minimum purchase commitments for inventory and instruments and, to a lesser extent, other operating expense commitments.

(4)Represents minimum royalties due on net sales of products incorporating licensed technology and subject to a minimum annual royalty payment, and payments under collaborative agreements. In addition to the minimum payments due under our collaborative agreements included above, we may be required to pay up to $4.4 million in milestone payments, plus royalties on net sales of any products using specified technology

(5)Pension obligations do not include our obligation under our deferred compensation plans of $35.8 million, which is recorded as a current liability. Deferred compensation plan benefits are generally paid out at retirement or termination of employment.

The above table does not reflect our long-term liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions recorded under FIN 48 (codified primarily in ASC 740, Income Taxes) totaling $131.4 million. Due to the complexity associated with tax uncertainties, we cannot reasonably make a reliable estimate of the period in which we expect to settle these non-current liabilities. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information on our unrecognized tax benefits. In addition, certain of our cost method equity investments give us the option to acquire the company in the future. Since it is not possible to estimate when, or even if, we will exercise our option to acquire these companies, we have not included these future potential payments in the table above.

Future Liquidity Considerations

We expect to continue to review and evaluate potential strategic transactions and alliances that we believe will complement our current or future business. Subject to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and the general disclaimers set forth in our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Annual Report, we believe that cash flow from operations and the cash available under our Revolving Facility will provide us with sufficient funds in order to fund our expected normal operations, and debt payments, including interest over the next twelve months. Our longer-term liquidity is contingent upon future operating performance. We may also require additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures, repayment of debt, acquisitions or other investments, or to repay our convertible notes and related deferred tax liabilities. As described above, we have significant indebtedness outstanding under our Credit Agreement, Senior Notes and convertible notes. These capital requirements could be substantial. Our operating performance may also be affected 

64
by matters discussed under the above-referenced Risk Factors set forth elsewhere in this report. These risks, trends and uncertainties may also adversely affect our long-term liquidity.

Legal Contingencies

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and claims. In connection with these legal proceedings and claims, management periodically reviews estimates of potential costs to be incurred by us in connection with the adjudication or settlement, if any, of these proceedings. These estimates are based on an analysis of potential litigation outcomes and settlement strategies. In accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies, loss contingencies are accrued if, in the opinion of management, an adverse outcome is probable and such outcome can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that future results for any particular quarter or annual period may be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies relating to these proceedings.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements, allowance for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, valuations, purchase price allocations and contingent consideration related to business combinations, expected future cash flows including growth rates, discount rates, terminal values and other assumptions used to evaluate the recoverability of long-lived assets and goodwill, estimated fair values of intangible assets and goodwill, amortization methods and periods, warranty reserves, certain accrued expenses, restructuring and other related charges, stock-based compensation, contingent liabilities, tax reserves and recoverability of our net deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate. Any differences may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

The following is a discussion of what we believe to be the more significant critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Inventory

Our inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. As a developer and manufacturer of high technology medical equipment, we may be exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures on products and prices, and reliability and replacement of and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate our ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product expiration or end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Assumptions used in determining our estimates of future product demand may prove to be incorrect, in which case the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory would have to be adjusted in the future. If inventory is determined to be overvalued, excess or obsolete, we would be required to record impairment charges within cost of goods sold at the time of such determination. Although considerable effort is made to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or expected usage could have a significant negative impact on the value of our inventory and our operating results. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to its net realizable value.

Accounts Receivable Reserves

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our trade receivables based on a combination of factors, including discussions with the customer to determine the cause of non-payment, and evaluation of the customer’s current financial situation. In the event it is determined that the customer may not be able to meet its full obligation to us, we record a specific allowance to reduce the receivable to the amount that we expect to recover given all information present. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and our assessment of the customer’s current credit worthiness. We continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for 

65
estimated credit losses based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates in the future. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, additional allowances may be required.

We also record a provision for estimated sales returns and allowances on product and service related sales in the same period as the related revenues are recorded. These estimates are based on the specific facts and circumstances of particular orders, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. If the data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect reserve requirements, then a change in the allowances would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be adversely affected.

Business Combinations

We record tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting. Amounts paid for each acquisition are allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition. Contingent consideration, which is not deemed to be linked to continuing employment, is recorded at fair value as measured on the date of acquisition. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections under various potential scenarios, which are generally probability weighted as to the outcome of each scenario. These cash flow projections are discounted with an appropriate risk adjusted rate. Quarterly until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is reassessed at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment and actual results are likely to differ from the amounts originally recorded.

The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimate of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. 

Purchased research and development represents the value of in-process projects that have not yet reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future uses as of the date of acquisition. We use the income approach to determine the fair values of our purchased research and development. This approach determines fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to an in-process project over its useful life and then discounting these after-tax cash flows back to a present value. We base our revenue assumptions on estimates of relevant market sizes, expected market growth rates, expected trends in technology and expected product introductions by competitors. In arriving at the value of the in-process projects, we consider, among other factors, the in-process projects’ stage of completion, the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date, the costs already incurred, the projected costs to complete, the contribution of core technologies and other acquired assets, the expected introduction date and the estimated useful life of the technology. We base the discount rate used to arrive at a present value as of the date of acquisition on the time value of money and medical technology investment risk factors. We believe that the estimated purchased research and development amounts so determined represent the fair value at the date of acquisition and do not exceed the amount a third-party would pay for the projects. If the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial benefits expected for these projects or for the acquisitions as a whole and impairments may result.

We also used the income approach, as described above, to determine the estimated fair value of certain other identifiable intangible assets including developed technology, customer relationships and contracts, and trade names. Developed technology represents patented and unpatented technology and know-how. Customer relationships represent established relationships with customers, which provide a ready channel for the sale of additional products and services. Trade names represent acquired company and product names.

With respect to property, plant and equipment, we estimate the fair value of these assets using a combination of the cost and market approaches, depending on the component. Generally, we apply the cost approach as the primary method in estimating the fair value of land and buildings as the market approach is less reliable based on potential significant differences between the property being valued and the potentially comparable sales of similar properties.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill

Intangible Assets

We amortize our intangible assets that have finite lives using either the straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefit of the asset is expected to be consumed. The economic pattern is based on undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization is recorded over the estimated useful lives ranging from 2 to 30 years. We review 

66
our intangible assets subject to amortization to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a change in the remaining useful life. If the carrying value of an asset exceeds its undiscounted cash flows, we will write-down the carrying value of the intangible asset to its fair value in the period identified. In assessing fair value, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and discount rates. If these estimates or related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. We generally determine fair value based on the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. If the estimate of an intangible asset’s remaining useful life is changed, we will amortize the remaining carrying value of the intangible asset prospectively over the revised remaining useful life.

Goodwill

We test goodwill at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Events that could indicate impairment and trigger an interim impairment assessment include, but are not limited to current economic and market conditions, including a decline in market capitalization, a significant adverse change in legal factors, business climate, operational performance of the business or key personnel, and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Our annual impairment test date is the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter.

In performing the test, we utilize the two-step approach prescribed under ASC 350. The first step requires a comparison of the reporting unit’s carrying value to its fair value. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, including an independent valuation to conduct this test. The valuation is based upon expected future discounted operating cash flows of the reporting unit as well as analysis of recent sales and ratio comparisons of similar companies. We base the discount rate on the weighted average cost of capital, or WACC, of market participants. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, we will perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill to its carrying value. The second step requires us to perform a hypothetical purchase allocation as of the measurement date and estimate the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets. The fair value of intangible assets is determined as described above and is subject to significant judgment.

We conducted our fiscal 2014 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We utilized discounted cash flows, or DCF, and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of June 29, 2014 and ultimately used the fair value determined by the DCF in making our impairment test conclusions. We believe we used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows, market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date. As a result of completing Step 1, all of the reporting units had fair values exceeding their carrying values, and as such, Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for those reporting units. For illustrative purposes, had the fair value of each of our remaining reporting units been lower by 10%, all of our other reporting units, except for one, would have still passed Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. The one reporting unit that was at risk of failing Step 1 is within the Diagnostics segment and had goodwill of $202.8 million at September 27, 2014.

Since the fair value of our reporting units was determined by use of the DCF, and the key assumptions that drive the fair value in this model are the WACC, terminal values, growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, significant judgment is applied in determining fair value. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, this would likely result in a higher WACC because market participants would require a higher rate of return. In the DCF as the WACC increases, the fair value decreases. The other significant factor in the DCF is our projected financial information (i.e., amount and timing of expected future cash flows and growth rates) and if these assumptions were to be adversely impacted, this could result in a reduction of the fair value of this reporting unit.

At September 27, 2014, we believe that all reporting units, except for one within our Diagnostics segment as noted above, with goodwill aggregating $2.61 billion were not at risk of failing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test based on the current forecasts.

We conducted our fiscal 2013 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We utilized discounted cash flows, or DCF, and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of June 30, 2013 and ultimately used the fair value determined by the DCF in making our impairment test conclusions. We believe we used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows, market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date. As a result of completing Step 1, all of the reporting units, except for our Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit, which is within our Diagnostics reportable segment, had fair values exceeding their carrying values, and as such, Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for those reporting units.

As a result of our company-wide annual budgeting and strategic planning process and a full re-evaluation of our existing product development efforts and cost structure performed in the fourth quarter, we reduced our short term and long term 

67
revenue forecasts and determined that indicators of impairment existed in our Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit. The Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit is primarily comprised of our Aptima business acquired in the Gen-Probe acquisition and the molecular diagnostics business acquired in the Third Wave acquisition. The updated forecast, which reflected pricing pressures, for revenue and profitability were lower than those expected at the time of the Gen-Probe acquisition.

As a result, the fair value of this reporting unit was below its carrying value. We performed Step 2 of the impairment test, consistent with the procedures described above, and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1.1 billion. The basis of fair value for Molecular Diagnostics assumed the reporting unit would be purchased or sold in a taxable transaction, and the discount rate of 10% applied to the after-tax cash flows was relatively consistent with that used in our purchase accounting for the Gen-Probe acquisition. For illustrative purposes, had the fair value of Molecular Diagnostics been lower by 10%, the Company would have recorded an additional impairment charge of $195.4 million.

Revenue Recognition

We generate revenue from the sale of products, primarily medical imaging systems and diagnostic and surgical disposable products, and related services, which are primarily support and maintenance services on our medical imaging systems.

We recognize product revenue upon shipment provided that there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, there are no uncertainties regarding acceptance, the sales price is fixed or determinable, no right of return exists and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Generally, our product arrangements for capital equipment sales, primarily in our Breast Health and Skeletal Health reporting segments, are multiple-element arrangements, including services, such as installation and training, and multiple products. In accordance with ASC 605-25, based on the terms and conditions of the product arrangements, we believe that these services and undelivered products can be accounted for separately from the delivered product element as our delivered products have value to our customers on a stand-alone basis. Accordingly, revenue for services not yet performed at the time of product shipment are deferred and recognized as such services are performed. The relative selling price of any undelivered products is also deferred at the time of shipment and recognized as revenue when these products are delivered. There is no customer right of return in our sales agreements.

Service revenues primarily consist of amounts recorded under service and maintenance contracts and repairs not covered under warranty, installation and training, and shipping and handling costs billed to customers. Service and maintenance contract revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the contract. Other service revenues are recognized as the services are performed.

For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, we record revenue as separate units of accounting if the delivered items have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis, and if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered items, the delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially within our control. Some of our products have both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality. We determined that except for our CAD products and C-View product, the software element in our other products is incidental and not within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules, ASC 985-605, Software—Revenue Recognition. We determined that given the significance of the software component’s functionality to our CAD and C-View systems, which are sold by our Breast Health segment, these products are within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules. We evaluated the appropriate revenue recognition treatment of our other hardware products, including our Dimensions digital mammography systems, which have both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the products’ essential functionality (i.e., it is a tangible product), and determined they are not within the scope of ASC 985-605.

We are required to allocate revenue to multiple element arrangements based on the relative fair value of each element’s selling price. We typically determine the selling price of our products based on our best estimate of selling price, referred to as ESP, and services based on vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price, referred to as VSOE. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold on a stand-alone basis. In determining VSOE, our policy requires a substantial majority of selling prices for a product or service to be within a reasonably narrow range. We also consider the class of customer, method of distribution, and the geographies into which our products and services are sold when determining VSOE. If VSOE cannot be established, which may occur in instances when a product or service has not been sold separately, stand-alone sales are too infrequent, or product pricing is not within a narrow range, we attempt to establish the selling price based on third-party evidence of selling price, referred to as TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. When we cannot determine VSOE or TPE, we use ESP in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would typically transact a stand-alone sale of the product or service. ESP is determined by considering a number of factors including our pricing policies, internal costs and gross margin objectives, method of distribution, information gathered from experience in customer negotiations, market research and information, recent technological trends, competitive landscape and geographies.

68
For those arrangements accounted for under the software revenue recognition rules, ASC 985-605 generally requires revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each element based on their relative VSOE of fair value. If VSOE does not exist for a delivered element, the residual method is applied in which the arrangement consideration is allocated to the undelivered elements based on their VSOE with the remaining consideration recognized as revenue for the delivered elements. For multiple-element software arrangements where VSOE of fair value of Post-Contract Customer Support, referred to as PCS, has been established, we recognize revenue using the residual method at the time all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.

As part of our Diagnostics reporting segment, we manufacture blood screening products according to demand schedules provided by our collaboration partner, Grifols. Our agreement provides that we share a portion of Grifols’s revenue from screening blood donations. Upon shipment to Grifols, we recognize blood screening product sales at an agreed upon fixed transfer price, which is not refundable, and record the related cost of products sold. Based on the terms of our collaboration agreement with Grifols, our ultimate share of the net revenue from sales to the end user in excess of the transfer price revenues recognized is not known until it is reported to us by Grifols. On a monthly basis, Grifols reports net revenue generated during the prior month and remits an additional corresponding net payment to us which we record as revenue at that time. This payment combined with the transfer price revenues previously recognized represents our ultimate share of net revenue under the agreement.

While the majority of our instruments are placed at customer sites, in certain instances, we sell sell instruments to our clinical diagnostics customers and record sales of these instruments upon delivery and customer acceptance. Prior to delivery, each instrument is tested to meet the Company’s specifications and the specifications of the FDA, and is shipped fully assembled. Customer acceptance of the Company’s clinical diagnostic instrument systems requires installation and training by our technical service personnel. Installation is a standard process consisting principally of uncrating, calibrating and testing the instrumentation. We sell our instruments to Grifols for use in blood screening and record these instrument sales upon delivery since Grifols is responsible for the placement, maintenance and repair of the units with its customers. 

Within our Diagnostics business and, to a lesser extent, our GYN Surgical business, we provide our instrumentation (for example, the ThinPrep Processor, ThinPrep Imaging System, Panther and Tigris) and certain other hardware to customers without requiring them to purchase the equipment or enter into a lease. Instead, we recover the cost of providing the instrumentation and equipment in the amount we charge for our diagnostic tests and assays and other disposables. Customers enter into a customer usage agreement, and we install the equipment at customer sites and customers commit to purchasing minimum quantities of disposable products at a stated price over a defined contract term, which is typically between three and five years. Revenue is recognized over the term of the customer usage agreement as tests, assays and other disposable products are shipped or delivered, depending on the customer arrangement. 

Stock-Based Compensation

We recognize stock-based compensation expense associated with the granting of stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock units issued to our employees. Determining the amount of stock-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates to be used in calculating the grant-date fair value of stock options. We use a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of our stock options. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of stock options including the advice of an outside valuation advisor and the advisor’s model. The model requires us to make estimates of the following assumptions:

Expected volatility—We are responsible for estimating volatility and have considered a number of factors, including third-party estimates, when estimating volatility. We currently use a combination of historical and implied volatility, which is weighted based on a number of factors.

Expected term—We use historical employee exercise and option expiration data to estimate the expected term assumption. We believe that this historical data is currently the best estimate of the expected term of a new option, and that generally, all of our employees exhibit similar exercise behavior.

Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities for a period that is commensurate with the expected term assumption is used as the risk-free interest rate.

The amount of stock-based compensation expense recognized during a period is based on the value of the portion of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest. ASC 718, Stock Compensation, requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Based on an analysis of historical forfeitures, we have determined a specific forfeiture rate for certain employee groups and have applied forfeiture rates ranging from 0% to 6.5% as of September 27, 2014 depending on the specific employee group. This analysis is re-evaluated 

69
periodically and the forfeiture rate is adjusted as necessary. Ultimately, the actual expense recognized over the vesting period will only be for those awards that vest.

We recognized $50.0 million, $52.3 million and $40.6 million of stock-based compensation expense for employee equity awards in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of September 27, 2014, there was $24.4 million and $62.1 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options and stock units, respectively, that we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of 3.0 years and 2.6 years, respectively.

Income Taxes

We use the asset and liability method for accounting for income taxes. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between our assets and liabilities financial reporting and taxes bases. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse.

We have recognized $1.34 billion in net deferred tax liabilities at September 27, 2014 and $1.58 billion at September 28, 2013. The liabilities primarily relate to deferred taxes associated with our acquisitions and debt. The tax assets relate primarily to net operating loss carryforwards, accruals and reserves, stock-based compensation, and research credits. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event we determine that we could realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination is made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination is made.

We had $137.0 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, at September 27, 2014 and $121.8 million at September 28, 2013. At September 27, 2014, $66.1 million represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would result in a reduction of the Company’s effective tax rate. In the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that we will reduce our unrecognized tax benefits by $6.0 to $8.0 million due to statute of limitations expiring and potentially favorably settling with taxing authorities.

In the ordinary course of global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes for all years subject to audit. While we consider our estimates reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome will not be different than amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If our assumptions are incorrect, the differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. ASU 2014-15 explicitly requires management to evaluate, at each annual or interim reporting period, whether there are conditions or events that exist that raise substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date the financial statements are issued and to provide related disclosures. ASU 2014-15 is effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2016 and earlier application is permitted. The adoption of ASU 2014-15 is not expected to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements or disclosures.

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 660), which provides guidance for revenue recognition. This ASU is applicable to any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets. ASU 2014-09 will supersede the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and most industry-specific guidance. The standard’s core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current U.S. GAAP. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. ASU 2014-09 is effective prospectively for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2016, which is fiscal 2018 for the Company. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.

70
In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exist. ASU 2013-11 amends the presentation requirements of ASC 740 and requires an unrecognized tax benefit to be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward. To the extent the tax benefit is not available at the reporting date under the governing tax law or if the entity does not intend to use the deferred tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit should be presented as a liability and not combined with deferred tax assets. The ASU is effective for annual periods, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013, which is fiscal 2015 for us. The amendments are to be applied to all unrecognized tax benefits that exist as of the effective date and may be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2013-11 on our consolidated financial position.

In March 2013, FASB issued ASU 2013-05, Foreign Currency Matters (Topic 830): Parent’s Accounting for the Cumulative Translation Adjustment upon Derecognition of Certain Subsidiaries or Groups of Assets within a Foreign Entity or of an Investment in a Foreign Entity.  ASU 2013-05 addresses the accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment when a parent either sells a part or all of its investment in a foreign entity or no longer holds a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets that is a nonprofit activity or a business within a foreign entity. The guidance outlines the events when cumulative translation adjustments should be released into net income. The ASU is effective for annual periods, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013, which is fiscal 2015 for us. We will apply the guidance prospectively to any derecognition events that may occur after the effective date and does not expect the adoption of ASU 2013-05 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk