ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

The following factors, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, or in other filings by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could adversely affect the Corporation’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material could also affect our business operations and financial results.  

Global economic conditions could continue to adversely affect the Corporation’s business and financial results.  

Unfavorable economic conditions, including the impact of recessions in the United States and throughout the world, may continue to negatively affect the Corporation’s business and financial results. These economic conditions could negatively impact (i) consumer demand for our products, including shifting consumer purchasing patterns to lower-cost options such as private label products, (ii) the mix of our products’ sales, (iii) our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis from certain customers and (iv) the ability of certain suppliers to fill our orders for raw materials or other goods and services. A prolonged recession could result in decreased revenue, margins and earnings.  

Significant increases in prices for raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results.  

Increases in the cost of and availability of raw materials, including pulp and petroleum-based materials, the cost of energy, transportation and other necessary services, supplier constraints, an inability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relations or an inability to avoid disruptions in production output caused by events such as natural disasters, power outages, labor strikes, and the like could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial results.  

Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or recycled fiber from recovered waste paper, is used extensively in the Corporation’s tissue products and is subject to significant price fluctuations due to the cyclical nature of these fiber markets. Recycled fiber accounts for approximately 32 percent of the Corporation and its equity companies’ overall fiber requirements.  

Increases in pulp prices could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings if selling prices for its finished products are not adjusted or if these adjustments significantly trail the increases in pulp prices. Derivative instruments have not been used to manage these risks. On a worldwide basis, the Corporation supplies approximately 8 percent of its virgin fiber needs from internal pulp manufacturing operations.  

A number of the Corporation’s products, such as diapers, training and youth pants, incontinence care products, disposable wipes and various health care products, contain certain materials which are principally derived from petroleum. These materials are subject to price fluctuations based on changes in petroleum prices, availability and other factors. The Corporation purchases these materials from a number of suppliers. Significant increases in prices for these materials could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings if selling prices for its finished products are not adjusted or if adjustments significantly trail the increases in prices for these materials. Derivative instruments have not been used to manage these risks.  

4  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

Although the Corporation believes that the supplies of raw materials needed to manufacture its products are adequate, global economic conditions, supplier capacity constraints and other factors could affect the availability of, or prices for, those raw materials.  

The Corporation’s manufacturing operations utilize electricity, natural gas and petroleum-based fuels.  

To ensure that it uses all forms of energy cost-effectively, the Corporation maintains ongoing energy efficiency improvement programs at all of its manufacturing sites. The Corporation’s contracts with energy suppliers vary as to price, payment terms, quantities and duration. The Corporation’s energy costs are also affected by various market factors including the availability of supplies of particular forms of energy, energy prices and local and national regulatory decisions. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be fully protected against substantial changes in the price or availability of energy sources. Derivative instruments are used to hedge a substantial portion of natural gas price risk in accordance with the Corporation’s risk management policy.  

Increased pricing pressure and intense competition for sales of the Corporation’s products could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial results.  

The Corporation competes in intensely competitive markets against well-known, branded products and private label products both domestically and internationally. Inherent risks in the Corporation’s competitive strategy include uncertainties concerning trade and consumer acceptance, the effects of consolidation within retailer and distribution channels, and competitive reaction. Some of the Corporation’s major competitors have undergone consolidation, which could result in increased competition and alter the dynamics of the industry. This consolidation may give competitors greater financial resources and greater market penetration and enable competitors to offer a wider variety of products and services at more competitive prices, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results. It may be necessary for the Corporation to lower prices on its products and increase spending on advertising and promotions, each of which could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results.  

In addition, the Corporation incurs substantial development and marketing costs in introducing new and improved products and technologies. The introduction of a new consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually requires substantial expenditures for advertising and marketing to gain recognition in the marketplace. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising and promotional support to maintain its relative market position. Some of the Corporation’s competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Corporation. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Corporation can. The Corporation’s ability to develop new products is affected by whether it can develop and fund technological innovations, receive and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection and successfully anticipate consumer needs and preferences.  

There is no guarantee that the Corporation will be successful in developing new and improved products and technologies necessary to compete successfully in the industry or that the Corporation will be successful in advertising, marketing and selling its products.  

Changes in the policies of our retail trade customers and increasing dependence on key retailers in developed markets may adversely affect our business.  

The Corporation’s products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace, which is experiencing increased concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. With the   

5  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

 consolidation of retail trade, especially in developed markets such as the U.S. and Europe, the Corporation is increasingly dependent on key retailers, and some of these retailers, including large-format retailers, may have greater bargaining power than does the Corporation. They may use this leverage to demand higher trade discounts or allowances which could lead to reduced profitability. The Corporation may also be negatively affected by changes in the policies of its retail trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, delisting of our products; additional requirements related to safety, environmental, social and other sustainability issues; and other conditions. If the Corporation loses a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.  

There is no guarantee that the Corporation’s efforts to reduce costs will be successful.  

The Corporation continues to implement plans to improve its competitive position by accelerating cost reductions in its operations. In addition, the Corporation expects to obtain ongoing cost savings from its recently completed streamlining of manufacturing and administrative operations. The Corporation further anticipates cost savings to result from reducing material costs and manufacturing waste and realizing productivity gains and distribution efficiencies in each of its business segments. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If the Corporation cannot successfully implement its cost savings plans, the Corporation may not realize all anticipated benefits. Any negative impact these plans have on the Corporation’s relationships with employees or customers or any failure to generate the anticipated efficiencies and savings could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results.  

The Corporation’s sales may not occur as estimated.  

There is no guarantee that the Corporation will be able to anticipate consumer preferences, estimate sales of new products, estimate changes in population characteristics and the acceptance of the Corporation’s products in new markets and anticipate changes in technology and competitive responses. As a result, the Corporation may not be able to achieve anticipated sales.  

The Corporation’s international operations are subject to foreign market risks, including foreign exchange risk and currency restrictions, which may adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results.  

Because the Corporation and its equity companies have manufacturing facilities in 38 countries and their products are sold in more than 150 countries, the Corporation’s results may be substantially affected by foreign market risks. The Corporation is subject to the impact of economic and political instability in developing countries.  

The Corporation faces increased risks in its international operations, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency restrictions, adverse political and economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights, costs and difficulties in managing international operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. Each of these factors could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results.  

In addition, intense competition in European personal care and tissue markets, and the challenging economic, political and competitive environments in Latin America and developing and other countries in Eastern Europe and Asia may slow the Corporation’s sales growth and earnings potential. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Corporation’s success internationally also depends on its ability to acquire or to form successful business alliances, and there is no guarantee that the Corporation will be able to acquire or form these alliances. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Corporation’s products will be accepted in any particular market.  

6  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

The Corporation is subject to the movement of various currencies against each other and versus the U.S. dollar. A portion of the exposures, arising from transactions and commitments denominated in non-local currencies, is systematically hedged through foreign currency forward and swap contracts.  

Translation exposure for the Corporation with respect to foreign operations generally is not hedged. Weaker foreign currency exchange rates reduce the potential benefit of forecasted declines in dollar-based input costs for operations outside the U.S. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be fully protected against substantial foreign currency fluctuations.  

The current credit market disruptions and recession in the United States and certain foreign countries may adversely affect our business.  

During 2008, unprecedented volatility in global commodity, currency and financial markets resulted in a high level of uncertainty in the business environment, which is expected to continue into 2009. The Corporation relies on access to the credit markets, specifically the commercial paper and public bond markets, to provide supplemental funding for its operations. Although the Corporation has not experienced a disruption in its ability to access the credit markets, there is no assurance that the credit markets will not deteriorate further. It is possible that the Corporation may have difficulty accessing the credit markets in the future, which may disrupt its businesses or further increase the Corporation’s cost of funding its operations. Additionally, the current uncertainty in global economic conditions resulting from the recent disruptions in credit markets and other factors, including recession in the United States and recessions in various foreign markets where the Corporation operates, may adversely affect our sales and results of operations. If the current situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be further negatively impacted, including reduced demand for our products, or supplier, customer or creditor disruptions, resulting from tighter credit markets and other economic factors.  

The Corporation may acquire new product lines or businesses and may have difficulties integrating future acquisitions or may not realize anticipated benefits of acquisitions.  

The Corporation may pursue acquisitions of new product lines or businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired product lines or businesses, personnel turnover and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or may be unable to successfully integrate and manage product lines or businesses that we may acquire in the future. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits or cost savings from future acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. Any inability by us to integrate and manage any acquired product lines or businesses in a timely and efficient manner, any inability to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the time frame we anticipate or any unanticipated required increases in trade, promotional or capital spending could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Moreover, future acquisitions by us could result in our incurring substantial additional indebtedness, being exposed to contingent liabilities or incurring the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  

Pending litigation, administrative actions and new legal requirements could have an adverse effect on the Corporation.  

There is no guarantee that the Corporation will be successful in defending itself in legal and administrative actions or in asserting its rights under various laws, including intellectual property laws. In addition, the Corporation could incur substantial costs in defending itself or in asserting its rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. The costs and other effects of pending litigation and administrative actions against the   

7  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

 Corporation and new legal requirements cannot be determined with certainty. Although management believes that no such proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Corporation, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”.  

The Corporation obtains certain manufactured products and administrative services from third parties. If the third-party providers fail to satisfactorily perform, our operations could be adversely impacted.  

As part of the Corporation’s Global Business Plan, a number of administrative functions have been transferred to third-party service providers. Those functions include certain information technology; finance and accounting; sourcing and supply management; and human resources services. Although moving these administrative functions to third-party service providers is expected to improve certain capabilities and lower the Corporation’s cost of operations, the Corporation could experience disruptions in the quality and timeliness of the services. Additionally, third parties manufacture some of the Corporation’s products. Disruptions or delays at the third-party manufacturers or service providers due to regional economic, business, environmental, or political events, or information technology system failures or military actions, or the failure of these manufacturers or service providers to otherwise satisfactorily perform, could adversely impact the Corporation’s operations, sales, payments to the Corporation’s vendors, employees, and others, and the Corporation’s ability to report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis.  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES