PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.  

References in this report to “we”, “us” and “our” are to Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (“MMC”) and one or more of its subsidiaries, as the context requires.  

GENERAL  

MMC is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world’s leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including: Marsh, the insurance broker, intermediary and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; Oliver Wyman Group, the management and economic consultancy; and Kroll, the risk consulting firm. With approximately 52,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue exceeding $10 billion, MMC provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries.  

MMC conducts business through three operating segments:  

   ¡    Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. We conduct business in this segment primarily through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.  

   ¡    Consulting includes human resource consulting and related outsourcing and investment services, and specialized management and economic consulting services. We conduct business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.  

   ¡    Risk Consulting and Technology includes risk consulting and related investigative, intelligence, financial, security and technology services. We conduct business in this segment through Kroll.  

We describe our operating segments in further detail below. We provide financial information about our segments in our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report.  

OUR BUSINESSES  

Risk and Insurance Services  

Risk and Insurance Services, comprising Marsh and Guy Carpenter, is MMC’s largest business segment. This segment generated approximately 50% of MMC’s total operating segment revenue in 2009 and employs approximately 26,000 colleagues worldwide.  

Marsh  

Marsh is a world leader in delivering risk and insurance services and solutions to its clients. From its founding in 1871 to the present day, Marsh has provided thought leadership and innovation for clients and the insurance industry—introducing and promoting the concept and practice of client representation through brokerage, the discipline of risk management, the globalization of insurance and risk management services and many other innovative tools and service platforms.  

1  

Table of Contents 

Marsh generated approximately 41% of MMC’s total operating segment revenue in 2009. Over 23,000 Marsh colleagues provide risk management, risk consulting, insurance broking, alternative risk financing, and insurance program management services to a wide range of businesses, government entities and professional service organizations around the world in more than 100 countries.  

Marsh’s clients vary by size, industry, geography and risk exposures. Marsh is organized to serve clients efficiently and effectively, delivering tailored solutions based on complexity of the risk and global footprint, and matched to clients’ buying styles.  

Insurance Broking and Risk Consulting  

In its main insurance broking and risk consulting business, Marsh employs a team approach to address clients’ risk management and insurance needs. Each client relationship is coordinated by a client executive who draws from the many industry and risk specialties within Marsh to assemble the resources needed to analyze, measure and assist a client in managing its various risks. Product and service offerings include program design and placement, post-placement program support and administration, claims advocacy, and a wide array of risk analysis and risk management consulting services. These include Multinational Client Service, Marsh Risk Consulting, Risk, Specialty and Industry Practices, Bowring Marsh, Consumer Operations and Marsh & McLennan Agency.  

Multinational Client Service  

Multinational Client Service (MCS) is solely focused on delivering service excellence and insurance solutions to multinational clients, irrespective of their size. Executing in a clear and consistent manner around the globe, MCS provides risk management programs with a service platform that comprises a combination of proprietary tools and technology and specialized resources. MCS provides global expertise and an intimate knowledge of local markets, helping clients navigate local regulatory and legal environments and address the worldwide risk issues that confront them.  

Marsh Risk Consulting  

Marsh Risk Consulting (MRC) is a global organization comprised of consulting specialists dedicated to providing clients with advice and solutions across a comprehensive range of insurable and non-insurable risk issues, such as restructuring, product safety, patient safety, business interruption, supply chain, governance, workforce, and reputation. MRC helps clients identify exposures, assess critical business functions and evaluate existing risk treatment practices and strategies. MRC provides client services in five main areas of exposure:  

   ¡    Business/Enterprise Risk: provides risk modeling and assessments, enterprise risk management, risk management optimization and reputational risk and crisis management.  

   ¡    Claims and Litigation Support: provides support and solutions to clients to assist in managing claim portfolios and resolving insured and uninsured losses and disputes of all kinds, as well as calculating losses and asset valuations.  

   ¡    Operational Risk Management: provides an integrated approach to managing and optimizing the impact of operational risks such as those associated with property (including natural hazards), supply chain, business continuity, and products (including recalls).  

   ¡    Human Capital: assists in protecting the quality of clients’ operational processes and the health and safety of their employees, focusing on issues such as absenteeism, safety and ergonomic programs and employment practices.  

   ¡    Risk Technologies: provides services to help clients manage, collect, analyze and report on the data and workflow associated with risk, insurance, claims and legal matters within their organizations.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Risk, Specialty and Industry Practices  

In further support of its clients’ strategic, operational and risk management objectives, Marsh provides consultative advice, brokerage and claims advocacy services through dedicated global Risk, Specialty and Industry Practices in the areas listed below. For both large and mid-size organizations, Practice colleagues apply their experience and working knowledge of clients’ industry sectors, and of the unique environments in which they operate, to facilitate the requisite breadth of coverage and to reduce cost of risk.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Bowring Marsh  

Bowring Marsh was established in 2008 to respond to clients’ growing needs and marketplace opportunity, specializing as an international placement broker for property (including terrorism) and casualty risks. Bowring Marsh utilizes placement expertise in major international insurance market hubs (including Bermuda, Brazil, Dublin, London, Miami, Singapore, Tokyo and Zurich) and an integrated global network to secure advantageous terms and conditions for its clients throughout the world.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Consumer Operations—Affinity/Program & Private Client  

In addition to its main risk management and broking practices described above, Marsh operates a “Consumer” business in each geographic region that focuses on either or both of program marketing and administration opportunities and high net worth individual insurance sales. The Affinity/Program businesses sell and administer insurance products and services on a program basis, typically working with a sponsoring organization client to leverage the affinity relationship that client has with its constituencies (e.g., employees, members, franchisees, or customers, as the case may be). These programs typically include group life & health coverage, professional liability coverage, personal property and liability coverage including automobile and homeowners’ insurance, business owner protection, annuities, and variable security-related products. Marsh Consumer’s sales and servicing activities regarding high net worth individuals are largely U.S.-focused and operate under the names “Private Client Services” (for property & casualty insurance products), and “Private Client Life Insurance Solutions” or “Private Client Solutions” (for life & health insurance-focused activities).  

More specifically, areas of the Consumer business include:  

   ¡    Affinity Program Solutions: markets and administers standardized and customized insurance programs, selling and servicing group/master and individual policies for many life & health and property & casualty lines of insurance business as well as certain other non-insurance products and services. Clients generally include associations, employers, unions, fraternal organizations, franchisors, and other consumer-focused “brand” companies, including large multinational financial institutions and automobile manufacturers.  

   ¡    Private Client Solutions: offers high-net-worth individuals, families and their advisors a single source solution to manage their complete spectrum of risk, uphold their current quality of life and protect and preserve their wealth, current income and legacy. This business also offers key-person and executive benefit programs to organizations.  

   ¡    Business Process Outsourcing Solutions: provides comprehensive, “private label” and/or outsourced back-office billing, operational and marketing support services to leading insurers, financial institutions and other service businesses.  

Marsh & McLennan Agency  

In October 2008, Marsh established the Marsh & McLennan Agency (MMA) to be one of the premier insurance agencies in the United States, meeting the needs of mid-sized businesses across the country. MMA’s services are targeted to customers who seek professional advice on program structure, market knowledge, experience and expertise in their industry, competitive prices, and local resources and service professionals. MMA offers commercial property and casualty, personal lines, employee benefits and life insurance / estate planning to clients through a dedicated sales and service force in retail locations, operating independently from Marsh’s other insurance broking operations.  

Captive Solutions  

Operating from offices in 31 captive domiciles, along with consulting expertise residing in Marsh brokerage offices worldwide, Captive Solutions serves approximately 1,270 captive facilities, including single-parent captives, reinsurance pools, risk retention groups and others. The Practice includes the Captive Advisory group—a consulting arm that performs captive feasibility studies and helps to structure and implement captive solutions, and Captive Management—an industry leader in managing captive facilities, providing administrative, consultative and insurance-related services.  

Schinnerer Group  

As one of the largest underwriting managers of professional liability and specialty insurance programs in the United States, Victor O. Schinnerer provides risk management and insurance solutions to clients through licensed brokers. During the 2009 fiscal year, Schinnerer received applications from approximately 9,200 licensed brokers, of which approximately 6,500 have active policies with Schinnerer.  

4  

Table of Contents 

This group includes the ENCON Group Inc., a leading managing general agent in Canada. ENCON offers professional liability and construction insurance, as well as group and retiree benefits programs for individuals, professionals, organizations and businesses, through a national network of licensed insurance brokers and plan advisors.  

Marsh Client Technologies  

Marsh Client Technologies comprises MarshConnect, Marsh’s global client technology interface, and CS STARS, a leading provider of risk and claims management systems and related data services.  

MarshConnect is a shared platform that delivers two sets of functions: Risk and Insurance Databases and Client Servicing Applications. Our proprietary databases provide a broad range of risk and insurance market intelligence, research tools and interactive utilities. Additionally, MarshConnect offers real-time access to critical risk and insurance information relevant to a client’s operations and risk profile. The platform enables teams to share information, collaborate and transact business online, increasing operational efficiency for Risk Management departments.  

CS STARS serves the technology needs of risk management professionals, as well as insurance carriers and third-party administrators, through integrated software and services that support risk management, claims administration, compliance management, and data management.  

Guy Carpenter  

Guy Carpenter generated approximately 9% of MMC’s total operating segment revenue in 2009. Approximately 2,350 Guy Carpenter professionals create and execute reinsurance and risk management solutions for clients worldwide, by providing risk assessment analytics, actuarial services, highly specialized product knowledge and trading relationships with reinsurance markets. Client services also include contract and claims management and fiduciary accounting. Run-off services and other reinsurance and insurance administration solutions are offered through Guy Carpenter affiliates on a fee basis.  

Acting as a broker or intermediary on all classes of reinsurance, Guy Carpenter places two main types of property and casualty reinsurance: treaty reinsurance, which involves the transfer of a portfolio of risks; and facultative reinsurance, which entails the transfer of part or all of the coverage provided by a single insurance policy.  

Guy Carpenter also provides reinsurance services in a broad range of specialty practice areas, including: agriculture; alternative risk transfer (such as group-based captives and insurance pools); aviation & aerospace; casualty clash (losses involving multiple policies or insureds); construction and engineering; credit, bond & political risk; excess & umbrella; general casualty; life, accident & health; marine and energy; medical professional liability; professional liability; program manager solutions; property; retrocessional reinsurance (reinsurance between reinsurers); surety (reinsurance of surety bonds and other financial guarantees); terror risk and workers compensation.  

Guy Carpenter also offers clients alternatives to traditional reinsurance, including industry loss warranties and, through its affiliates, capital markets alternatives such as transferring catastrophe risk through the issuance of risk-linked securities. Guy Carpenter affiliates also provide advisory services in connection with mergers & acquisitions and private debt and equity capital raising.  

In addition, Guy Carpenter provides its clients with numerous reinsurance-related services, such as actuarial, enterprise risk management, financial and regulatory consulting, portfolio analysis and advice on the efficient use of capital. Guy Carpenter’s Instrat® unit delivers advanced risk assessment analytics, catastrophe modeling and exposure management tools to assist clients in the reinsurance decision-making process.  

Guy Carpenter offers run-off services for inactive clients in North America and elsewhere through Reinsurance Solutions LLC and Reinsurance Solutions Limited, respectively. These affiliates also offer reinsurance and insurance administration solutions on a fee basis.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Compensation for Services in Risk and Insurance Services  

Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services primarily through fees and commissions paid by clients. Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer, the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiations with clients. Marsh and Guy Carpenter receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others.  

For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in our Risk and Insurance Services segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.  

Consulting  

Consulting is MMC’s second-largest business segment, generating approximately 44% of total operating segment revenue in 2009 and employing approximately 22,000 colleagues worldwide. MMC conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.  

Mercer  

With approximately 18,900 professionals active in 41 countries, Mercer is a leading global provider of human resource consulting and related outsourcing and investment services. Clients include a majority of the companies in the Fortune 1000 and FTSE 100, as well as medium- and small-market organizations. Mercer generated approximately 32% of MMC’s total operating segment revenue in 2009.  

Mercer operates in the following areas:  

Retirement, Risk and Finance Consulting. Mercer provides a wide range of strategic and compliance-related retirement services and solutions to corporate, governmental and institutional clients. Mercer assists clients worldwide in the design, governance and risk management of defined benefit, defined contribution and hybrid retirement plans. Mercer’s financial approach to retirement services enables clients to consider the benefits, accounting, funding and investment aspects of plan design and management in the context of business objectives and governance requirements.  

Health & Benefits. In its health & benefits business, Mercer assists public and private sector employers in the design, management and administration of employee health care programs; compliance with local benefits-related regulations; and the establishment of health and welfare benefits coverage for employees. Mercer provides advice and solutions to employers on: total health management strategies; global health brokerage solutions; vendor performance and audit; life and disability management; and measurement of healthcare provider performance. These services are provided through traditional consulting as well as commission-based brokerage services in connection with the selection of insurance companies and healthcare providers.  

Rewards, Talent & Communications. Mercer’s rewards, talent and communications business advises organizations on the engagement, management and rewarding of employees; the design of executive remuneration programs; and improvement of human resource (HR) effectiveness.  

Through proprietary survey data and decision support tools, Mercer’s information products solutions business provides clients with human capital information and analytical capabilities to improve strategic human capital decision making.  

Mercer’s communication business helps clients to plan and implement HR programs and other organizational change in order to maximize employee engagement, drive desired employee behavior and achieve improvements in business performance.  

Outsourcing. Through its outsourcing business, Mercer provides benefits administration services to clients globally. By delivering services across benefit domains and international borders, Mercer helps clients more efficiently manage their employee benefits programs. Mercer’s outsourcing business  

6  

Table of Contents 

 offers total benefits outsourcing, including administration and delivery for wealth, health and flexible benefits; total retirement outsourcing, including administration and delivery for retirement benefits; and stand-alone services for defined benefit administration, defined contribution administration, health benefits administration and flexible benefits programs.  

Investment Consulting & Management. Mercer provides investment consulting services to the fiduciaries of pension funds, foundations, endowments and other investors in more than 35 countries. Mercer advises clients and provides outsourced decision-making services covering all stages of the institutional investment process, from strategy, structure and implementation to ongoing portfolio management.  

Mercer’s investment management business provides multi-manager investment solutions, primarily for retirement plan assets, to institutional investors (such as retirement plan sponsors and trustees), and to individual investors (primarily through the inclusion of funds managed by Mercer on affiliated and third party defined contribution and financial advice platforms). These solutions include “one-stop” investment advisory and asset management solutions for plan sponsors, bundled services for frozen defined benefit plans utilizing our expertise in liability-driven investment and actuarial techniques, and personal wealth solutions. The investment management business offers a diverse range of investment options to meet a full spectrum of risk/return preferences and manages investment vehicles across a range of investment strategies in four geographic regions (US, Canada, Europe and Australia/New Zealand). As of December 31, 2009, Mercer’s investment management business had assets under management of $28.8 billion worldwide.  

Oliver Wyman Group  

With approximately 3,400 professionals based in 22 countries, Oliver Wyman Group delivers advisory services to clients through three operating units, each of which is a leader in its field: Oliver Wyman; Lippincott; and NERA Economic Consulting. Oliver Wyman Group generated approximately 12% of MMC’s total operating segment revenue in 2009.  

Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consulting firm. Oliver Wyman’s consultants specialize by industry and functional area, allowing clients to benefit from both deep sector knowledge and specialized expertise in strategy, operations, risk management, organizational transformation, and leadership development. Industry groups include:  

   ¡    Automotive;  

   ¡    Aviation, Aerospace and Defense;  

   ¡    Communications, Media and Technology;  

   ¡    Energy;  

   ¡    Financial services, including corporate and institutional banking, insurance, and retail and business banking;  

   ¡    Industrial products and services;  

   ¡    Health and life sciences;  

   ¡    Retail and consumer products; and  

   ¡    Surface transportation.  

Oliver Wyman overlays its industry knowledge with expertise in the following functional specializations:  

   ¡    Business Transformation. Oliver Wyman advises clients who face major strategic discontinuities and risks on business model transformation.  

   ¡    Delta. The Delta business provides consulting services and customized programs to help CEOs and other senior corporate leaders improve their individual and organizational capabilities. Services include organizational design and transformation; enterprise leadership and board effectiveness.  

7  

Table of Contents 

   ¡    Finance and Risk. Oliver Wyman works with CFOs and other senior finance and risk management executives of leading corporations and financial institutions to help them meet the challenges presented by their evolving roles and the needs of their organizations. Key areas of focus include risk, capital and performance measurement; performance and value-based management; and risk governance amid regulatory changes. Oliver Wyman also offers actuarial consulting services to public and private enterprises, self-insured group organizations, insurance companies, government entities, insurance regulatory agencies and other organizations.  

   ¡    Leadership Development. The Leadership Development business provides customized solutions for clients to develop leadership capability across all levels of their organization in order to accelerate the development of leadership as a source of strategic advantage. These customized solutions blend a range of learning methodologies including leadership & employee engagement programs, action learning, coaching, e-learning, and online applications  

   ¡    Marketing and Sales. Oliver Wyman advises leading firms in the areas of offer/pricing optimization; product/service portfolio management; product innovation; marketing spend optimization; value-based customer management; and sales & distribution model transformation.  

   ¡    Operations and Technology. Oliver Wyman offers market-leading IT organization design, IT economics management, Lean Six Sigma principles and methodologies, and sourcing expertise to clients across a broad range of industries.  

   ¡    Strategy. Oliver Wyman is a leading provider of corporate strategy advice and solutions in the areas of growth strategy and corporate portfolio; non-organic growth and M&A; performance improvement; business design and innovation; corporate center and shared services; and strategic planning.  

Lippincott is a brand strategy and design consulting firm which advises corporations around the world in a variety of industries on corporate branding, identity and image. Lippincott has helped create some of the world’s most recognized brands.  

NERA Economic Consulting provides economic analysis and advice to public and private entities to achieve practical solutions to highly complex business and legal issues arising from competition, regulation, public policy, strategy, finance and litigation. NERA professionals operate worldwide assisting clients including corporations, governments, law firms, regulatory agencies, trade associations, and international agencies. NERA’s specialized practice areas include: antitrust; securities; complex commercial litigation; energy; environmental economics; network industries; intellectual property; product liability and mass torts; and transfer pricing.  

Compensation for Services in Consulting  

Mercer and the Oliver Wyman Group businesses are compensated for advice and services primarily through fees paid by clients. Mercer’s health & benefits business is compensated through commissions from insurance companies for the placement of insurance contracts (comprising more than half of the revenue in the health & benefits business) and consulting fees. Mercer’s discretionary investment management business and certain of Mercer’s defined contribution administration services are compensated typically through fees based on assets under administration and/or management. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in the Consulting segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.  

Risk Consulting & Technology  

MMC’s Risk Consulting and Technology segment, which conducts business through Kroll, generated approximately 6% of MMC’s total operating segment revenue in 2009.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Kroll is the world’s leading risk intelligence company. With approximately 3,000 colleagues in 32 countries, Kroll provides a wide range of consulting-based services and technology-enabled solutions to a global client base of law firms, financial institutions, corporations, non-profits, government agencies and individuals.  

Consulting Services. Kroll’s Consulting Services Group helps clients mitigate business, financial and physical risks to facilitate the achievement of their legal, operational and financial objectives.  

Kroll’s business intelligence and investigations unit provides: reputational due diligence associated with investments and transactions; information gathering and analysis; investigative services; litigation support; assistance in locating misappropriated assets; and programs to protect intellectual property, prevent money laundering and assess the integrity of vendors.  

Kroll’s financial advisory services unit provides forensic accounting and litigation consulting to help clients uncover fraud and comply with securities and corporate governance regulations.  

Kroll’s security services operation serves clients worldwide, including multinational corporations, government agencies, high-net-worth individuals, architectural firms, and private and public sector organizations. Services include: security consulting; architectural security engineering; executive protection; high risk environment intelligence and protective services; and crisis response programs. Kroll also monitors law enforcement agencies and other public and private entities’ compliance with federal consent decrees and other government mandates. Until its sale in May 2009, this operation included Kroll Government Services, a business that conducted security clearance investigations of government personnel.  

Litigation Support and Data Recovery. Kroll’s Litigation Support and Data Recovery unit provides its services through Kroll Ontrack. Kroll Ontrack provides technology-driven services and software to help legal, corporate and governmental entities, as well as consumers, recover, search, analyze, produce and present electronic data efficiently and cost-effectively. These services are provided to organizations and individuals in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. In addition to its award-winning suite of software, Kroll Ontrack provides data recovery, advanced search, electronic and paper discovery, computer forensics, electronically stored information (“ESI”) consulting and data archiving solutions, document review services and trial consulting and presentation services.  

Background Screening. Kroll’s Background Screening companies provide organizations with comprehensive screening services that help them make informed choices in such critical areas as employment, lending, vendor selection, investment placement and academic institutional admissions. It also provides data breach incident management—including identity theft solutions for individuals.  

Kroll Background Screening provides employment screening to corporate, institutional and government clients in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. Through its Fraud Solutions practice, Kroll helps organizations and individuals address each phase of personal data theft detection and mitigation, from pre-breach preparedness, risk assessment and planning to post-event customer communication, investigation and resolution. During 2009, Kroll Background Screening included a substance abuse testing business; this business was sold in February 2010.  

Kroll Factual Data offers credit-related information services to mortgage and consumer lending businesses, property management firms and governmental organizations in the United States.  

Compensation for Services in Risk Consulting and Technology   

Kroll receives compensation in the form of fees paid by clients. These fees are typically earned on an hourly, project, fixed fee or per-unit basis. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in our Risk Consulting & Technology segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.  

Regulation  

MMC’s activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under United States federal and state laws, as well as laws of other countries in which MMC’s subsidiaries  

9  

Table of Contents 

 operate. See Part I, Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) below for a discussion of how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our businesses.  

Risk and Insurance Services. While laws and regulations vary from location to location, every state of the United States and most foreign jurisdictions require insurance market intermediaries and related service providers (such as insurance brokers, agents and consultants, reinsurance brokers, managing general agents and third party administrators) to hold an individual and/or company license from a governmental agency or self-regulatory organization. Some jurisdictions issue licenses only to individual residents or locally-owned business entities; in this case, if MMC has no licensed subsidiary, we may maintain arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in such jurisdiction. Such arrangements are only permitted following an extensive review process.  

Beginning in January 2005, all European Union member states were required to implement the Insurance Mediation Directive. This Directive aims to apply consistent minimum professional standards to insurance and reinsurance intermediaries, including a licensing system based on an assessment of factors such as professional competence, financial capacity and professional indemnity insurance. The adoption by member states of the European Union of regulations to comply with the Directive has led our insurance intermediary operations in the European Union to become subject to enhanced regulatory requirements. In January 2005, as part of the implementation of the Directive in the United Kingdom, the power and responsibilities of the Financial Services Authority, or FSA, were expanded to include regulation of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries in the United Kingdom.  

Insurance authorities in the United States and certain other jurisdictions in which MMC’s subsidiaries do business, including the FSA in the United Kingdom, also have enacted laws and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and regulations typically provide for segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them.  

Certain of MMC’s Risk and Insurance Services activities are governed by other regulatory bodies, such as investment, securities and futures licensing authorities. In the United States, Marsh and Guy Carpenter use the services of MMC Securities Corp., a U.S.-registered broker-dealer and investment advisor, member FINRA/SIPC, primarily in connection with investment banking-related services and advising on alternative risk financing transactions. Also in the United States, Marsh uses the services of Interlink Securities Corp., primarily in connection with variable insurance products for high net worth individuals. Guy Carpenter provides advice on securities or investments in the European Union through MMC Securities (Europe) Ltd. (formerly GC Securities Ltd.), which is authorized and regulated by the FSA. Marsh receives investment management services in the European Union from another MMC subsidiary, Marsh Investment Service Limited, which is also regulated by the FSA. MMC Securities Corp., Interlink Securities Corp. and MMC Securities (Europe) Ltd. are indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries of MMC.  

In some jurisdictions, insurance-related taxes may be due either directly from clients or from the insurance broker. In the latter case, the broker customarily looks to the client for payment.  

Consulting. Certain of Mercer’s retirement-related consulting services are subject to pension law and financial regulation in many countries, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, in the United States and the FSA in the United Kingdom. In addition, the trustee services, investment services (including advice to individuals on the investment of personal pension assets and assumption of discretionary investment management responsibilities) and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services provided by Mercer and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to investment and securities regulations in various jurisdictions. The benefits insurance consulting and brokerage services provided by Mercer and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to the same licensing requirements and regulatory oversight as the insurance market intermediaries described above regarding our Risk and Insurance Services businesses. Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group use the services of MMC Securities Corp (In the United States) and MMC Securities (Europe) Limited (in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe), primarily in connection with the provision of certain retirement and employee benefit services, and investment banking services, respectively.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Risk Consulting & Technology. Certain of Kroll’s risk consulting and investigative activities are licensed and regulated at the federal, state and local level in the United States and abroad. Many of these activities also involve the use of data from outside sources, including third party vendors and governmental records. As a result, changes in existing, or the implementation of new, laws and regulations, particularly relating to privacy, could interfere with Kroll’s historical access to and use of such data.  

Competitive Conditions  

MMC faces strong competition in all of its businesses from providers of similar products and services. MMC also encounters strong competition throughout its businesses from both public corporations and private firms in attracting and retaining qualified employees. In addition to the discussion below, see “Risks Relating to MMC Generally—Competitive Risks,” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.  

Risk and Insurance Services. MMC’s combined insurance and reinsurance services businesses are global in scope. The principal bases upon which our insurance and reinsurance businesses compete include the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. MMC encounters strong competition from other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere, from insurance and reinsurance companies that market, distribute and service their insurance and reinsurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other businesses, including commercial and investment banks, accounting firms and consultants, that provide risk-related services and products.  

Certain insureds and groups of insureds have established programs of self insurance (including captive insurance companies) as a supplement or alternative to third-party insurance, thereby reducing in some cases their need for insurance placements. There are also many other providers of affinity group and private client services, including specialized firms, insurance companies and other institutions.  

The continuing impact of legal and regulatory proceedings concerning our insurance brokerage operations also could affect Marsh’s competitive position. These proceedings are discussed in more detail in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report. Please also read our discussion of the risks associated with these proceedings and their impact under Part I, Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) below.  

Consulting. MMC’s consulting and HR outsourcing businesses face strong competition from other privately and publicly held worldwide and national companies, as well as regional and local firms. These businesses compete generally on the basis of the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. Competitors include independent consulting and outsourcing firms, as well as consulting and outsourcing operations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms.  

Mercer’s investment consulting and investment management businesses face competition from many sources, including multi-manager services offered by other investment consulting firms and financial institutions.  

In many cases, clients have the option of handling the services provided by Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group internally, without assistance from outside advisors.  

Risk Consulting & Technology. In Risk Consulting and Technology, MMC faces competition from local, regional, national and international firms that provide similar services in the fields of accounting, investigative and security services, consulting and technology services. Kroll’s Consulting Services Group faces competition from local, regional, national and international consulting and accounting firms who provide forensic accounting, litigation support and investigative services, as well as other specialist firms providing architectural engineering and security consulting services. Kroll’s Litigation Support and Data Recovery and Background Screening businesses face competition from a variety of law firms, independent service providers and technology companies.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Segmentation of Activity by Type of Service and Geographic Area of Operation.  

Financial information relating to the types of services provided by MMC and the geographic areas of its operations is incorporated herein by reference to Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2009, MMC and its consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 52,000 people worldwide, including approximately 26,000 in risk and insurance services, approximately 22,000 in consulting and approximately 3,000 in risk consulting and technology. Approximately 600 individuals are employed by MMC at the parent-company level.  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF MMC  

The executive officers of MMC are appointed annually by MMC’s Board of Directors. As of February 26, 2010, the following individuals were executive officers of MMC:  

Ben F. Allen, age 45, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Kroll, a position he assumed in March 2008. In July 2007, Mr. Allen was named Chief Operating Officer of Kroll while continuing in his position as President of Kroll’s Technology Services Group. He led the Technology Services Group, comprised of Kroll Ontrack, Kroll Factual Data and Kroll’s background screening and substance abuse testing businesses, beginning in January 2005. Previously, Mr. Allen was President of Kroll Ontrack, the firm’s legal technologies and data recovery business, following Kroll’s acquisition of Ontrack Data International, Inc. in June 2002. Mr. Allen had been President and Chief Executive Officer of Ontrack Data International since July 2001, and previously served in several roles for that firm, including as Chief Operating Officer and General Manager of the U.K. and France offices.  

Orlando D. Ashford, age 41, is Senior Vice President, Human Resources, of MMC. Mr. Ashford joined MMC in September 2008. Prior to MMC, he was with the Coca-Cola Company since 2005 in human resource management, most recently as Group Director of Human Resources for Eurasia and Africa. While at Coca-Cola, Mr. Ashford reorganized and rebuilt the company’s corporate center HR team and headed a company-wide cultural change initiative. Prior to Coca-Cola, Mr. Ashford held positions with Motorola, the Delta Consulting Group (subsequently Mercer Delta Consulting), Ameritech and Andersen Consulting.  

Peter J. Beshar, age 48, is Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MMC. Before joining MMC in November 2004, Mr. Beshar was a Litigation Partner in the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mr. Beshar joined Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in 1995 after serving as an Assistant Attorney General in the New York Attorney General’s office and as the Special Assistant to Cyrus Vance in connection with the peace negotiations in the former Yugoslavia.  

M. Michele Burns, age 52, is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Mercer. Ms. Burns joined MMC as Executive Vice President on March 1, 2006, assumed the position of Chief Financial Officer of MMC on March 31, 2006 and moved to her current position with Mercer on September 25, 2006. Prior to joining MMC, Ms. Burns was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2004, and Chief Restructuring Officer since August 2004, of Mirant Corporation, an energy company. Prior to joining Mirant, she was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta Air Lines, Inc. from August 2000 to April 2004. She held various other positions in the finance and tax departments of Delta beginning in January 1999. Delta filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in September 2005.  

John P. Drzik, age 47, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Oliver Wyman Group, a position he assumed in June 2006. From 2003 to 2006, Mr. Drzik was President of Mercer Oliver Wyman, which was formed following MMC’s acquisition of Oliver, Wyman & Company in 2003. He joined Oliver, Wyman & Company in 1984, became President in 1995, and was appointed Chairman in 2000.  

Brian Duperreault, age 62, is Director, President and Chief Executive Officer of MMC, a position he assumed in January 2008. Prior to joining MMC, Mr. Duperreault served as Chairman and Chief  

12  

Table of Contents 

 Executive Officer of ACE Limited from 1994 to 2004, and continued as Chairman through the end of 2007. Prior to ACE, Mr. Duperreault was with American International Group (AIG) for more than 20 years, holding numerous positions and eventually becoming Executive Vice President of AIG Foreign General Insurance and Chairman and Chief Executive of AIG’s American International Underwriters (AIU). Mr. Duperreault is a Director of Tyco International Ltd.  

E. Scott Gilbert, age 54, is Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of MMC. Prior to joining MMC in January 2005, he had been the Chief Compliance Counsel of the General Electric Company since September 2004. Prior thereto, he was Counsel, Litigation and Legal Policy at GE. Between 1986 and 1992, when he joined GE, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York.  

Daniel S. Glaser, age 49, is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh, a position he assumed in December 2007. Previously, he had been Managing Director of AIG Europe (U.K.) Limited, and the Regional President of AIG’s American International Underwriters (AIU) U.K./Ireland division. He joined AIG in 2000 as President of the firm’s Global Energy Division. He was named Managing Director of AIG Europe (U.K.) in 2002. Mr. Glaser began his career in the insurance industry in 1982 as a Marsh broker. He worked at Marsh for a decade, serving in roles in New York, London and Saudi Arabia. Thereafter, he spent eight years at Willis, where he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Willis Risk Solutions, the Willis large accounts practice.  

David A. Nadler, age 61, is Vice Chairman, Office of the CEO of MMC. Dr. Nadler founded the Delta Consulting Group, Inc., a consulting firm specializing in executive leadership and organizational change, in 1980. He served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of that firm until its acquisition by Mercer in 2000, when it became Mercer Delta Consulting. Dr. Nadler served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Oliver Wyman’s Delta Organization & Leadership business through December 2005 and remains a Senior Partner of that firm.  

Vanessa A. Wittman, age 42, is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MMC. Prior to joining MMC in September 2008, Ms. Wittman was Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Adelphia Communications Corp. from 2003 to 2007. She joined Adelphia as part of a new executive team that oversaw one of the most complex bankruptcy cases in U.S. history. While there, Ms. Wittman was responsible for accounting, tax and internal audit functions; operational and field finance; corporate development; and the bankruptcy and investor relations teams. Prior to Adelphia, Ms. Wittman served as Chief Financial Officer of 360networks, based in Seattle, where she led the company’s restructuring efforts and successful emergence from bankruptcy protection in November 2002. She also has held positions with Microsoft, Metricom Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  

Peter Zaffino, age 43, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Guy Carpenter. Prior to assuming this position in February 2008, he had served since 2007 as Executive Vice President and head of Guy Carpenter’s U.S. treaty operations. Previously, Mr. Zaffino was responsible for treaty operations in Guy Carpenter’s U.S. eastern region and prior to that led the firm’s global specialty practices business. Before joining Guy Carpenter in 2001, Mr. Zaffino served in an executive role with a GE Capital portfolio company specializing in casualty treaty reinsurance.  

AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

MMC is subject to the informational reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with the Exchange Act, MMC files with the SEC annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. MMC makes these reports and any amendments to these reports available free of charge through its website, www.mmc.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The public may read and copy these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, like MMC, that file electronically with the SEC.  

13  

Table of Contents 

MMC also posts on its website the following documents with respect to corporate governance:  

   ¡    Guidelines for Corporate Governance;  

   ¡    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics;  

   ¡    Procedures for Reporting Complaints and Concerns Regarding Accounting Matters; and  

   ¡    the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Compliance Committee and Directors and Governance Committee of MMC’s Board of Directors.  

All of the above documents are available in printed form to any MMC stockholder upon request.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors