Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Business Overview  

Foot Locker, Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates in two reportable segments — Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers. The Athletic Stores segment is one of the largest athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the world, with formats that include Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Champs Sports, Footaction, SIX:02, as well as the retail stores of Runners Point Group, including Runners Point and Sidestep. The Direct-to-Customers segment includes Footlocker.com, Inc. and other affiliates, including Eastbay, Inc., and the direct-to-customer subsidiary of Runners Point Group, which sell to customers through their Internet and mobile sites and catalogs.  

The Foot Locker brand is one of the most widely recognized names in the markets in which the Company operates, epitomizing premium quality for the active lifestyle customer. This brand equity has aided the Company’s ability to successfully develop and increase its portfolio of complementary retail store formats, such as Lady Foot Locker, and Kids Foot Locker, as well as Footlocker.com, its direct-to-customer business. Through various marketing channels, including broadcast, digital, print, and various sports sponsorships and events, the Company reinforces its image with a consistent message — namely, that it is the destination for athletically inspired shoes and apparel with a wide selection of merchandise in a full-service environment.  

Store Profile  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Athletic Stores  

The Company operates 3,423 stores in the Athletic Stores segment. The following is a brief description of the Athletic Stores segment’s operating businesses and their respective taglines:  

Foot Locker — “Approved” — Foot Locker is a leading global athletic footwear and apparel retailer, which caters to the sneaker enthusiast — If it’s at Foot Locker, it’s Approved. Its stores offer the latest in athletically-inspired footwear and apparel, manufactured primarily by the leading athletic brands. Foot Locker provides the best selection of premium products for a wide variety of activities, including basketball, running, and training. Additionally, we operate 178 House of Hoops, primarily a shop-in-shop concept, which sells premier basketball-inspired footwear and apparel. Foot Locker’s 1,835 stores are located in 23 countries including 1,015 in the United States, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, 126 in Canada, 603 in Europe, and a combined 91 in Australia and New Zealand. The domestic stores have an average of 2,500 selling square feet and the international stores have an average of 1,500 selling square feet.  

Lady Foot Locker —“The Place for Her” — Lady Foot Locker is a leading U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories for active women. Its stores carry major athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories brands designed for a variety of activities, including running, walking, training, and fitness. Lady Foot Locker operates 198 stores that are located in the United States and Puerto Rico. These stores have an average of 1,400 selling square feet.   

14 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

SIX:02 —“It’s Your Time” — SIX:02 is an elevated retail concept designed for her, featuring top brands in fitness apparel, footwear, and accessories for a variety of activities, including running, yoga, strength training, dance, and CrossFit. This banner connects with each local market’s fitness community through gym, studio, and trainer partnerships, and celebrates the time each woman invests in herself. SIX:02 operates 15 stores in the United States and have an average of 2,100 selling square feet.  

Kids Foot Locker — “Go Big” — Kids Foot Locker is a children’s athletic retailer that offers the largest selection of brand-name athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for children. Its stores feature an environment geared to appeal to both parents and children. Of its 357 stores, 336 are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, 16 in Europe, and 5 in Canada. These stores have an average of 1,500 selling square feet.  

Footaction — “Own It” — Footaction is a national athletic footwear and apparel retailer that offers the freshest, best edited selection of athletic lifestyle brands and looks. This banner is uniquely positioned at the intersection of sport and style. The primary customer is a style-obsessed, confident, influential young male who is always dressed to impress. Its 272 stores are located throughout the United States and Puerto Rico and focus on authentic, premium product. The Footaction stores have an average of 2,900 selling square feet.  

Champs Sports — “We Know Game” — Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in North America. Its product categories include athletic footwear and apparel, and sport-lifestyle inspired accessories. This assortment allows Champs Sports to differentiate itself from other mall-based stores by presenting complete head-to-toe merchandising stories representing the most powerful athletic brands, sports teams, and athletes in North America. Of its 547 stores, 517 are located throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands and 30 in Canada. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,500 selling square feet.  

Runners Point — “Your Way, Our Passion” — Runners Point specializes in running footwear, apparel, and equipment for performance and lifestyle purposes. Its 116 stores are located in Germany and Austria. This banner caters to local running communities providing technical products, training tips and access to local running and group events. The Runners Point stores have an average of 1,200 selling square feet.  

Sidestep — “Sneaker Lifestyle” — Sidestep is a predominantly sports fashion footwear banner. Its 83 stores are located in Germany, Austria, and the Netherlands. Sidestep caters to a more discerning, fashion consumer. Sidestep stores have an average of 900 selling square feet.  

Direct-to-Customers  

The Company’s Direct-to-Customers segment is multi-branded and multi-channeled. This segment sells directly to customers through its Internet and mobile sites and catalogs.  

The Direct-to-Customers segment operates the websites for eastbay.com, final-score.com, eastbayteamsales.com, as well as websites aligned with the brand names of its store banners (footlocker.com, ladyfootlocker.com, six02.com kidsfootlocker.com, footaction.com, footlocker.ca, footlocker.eu, and champssports.com). Additionally, this segment includes the direct-to-customer subsidiary of Runners Point Group, which operates the websites for runnerspoint.com, sidestep-shoes.com, and sp24.com. These sites offer one of the largest online selections of running sport items in Europe, while providing a seamless link between e-commerce and store banners.  

Eastbay — “First Choice For Athletes” — Eastbay is among the largest direct marketers in the United States, providing high school and other athletes with a complete sports solution including athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, team licensed, and private-label merchandise for a broad range of sports.  

Franchise Operations  

The Company has two separate ten-year agreements with third parties for the operation of Foot Locker stores located within the Middle East and the Republic of Korea. Additionally, franchised stores located in Germany and Switzerland operate under the Runners Point and Sidestep banners. A total of 78 franchised stores were operating at January 31, 2015, of which 31 are operating in the Middle East, 27 in Germany and Switzerland, and 20 in the Republic of Korea. Royalty income from the franchised stores was not significant for any of the periods presented. These stores are not included in the Company’s operating store count above.   

15 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures  

In the following tables, the Company has presented certain financial measures and ratios identified as non-GAAP. The Company believes this non-GAAP information is a useful measure to investors because it allows for a more direct comparison of the Company’s performance for 2014 as compared with prior years and is useful in assessing the Company’s progress in achieving its long-term financial objectives. The 2014 and 2013 results represent the 52 weeks ended January 31, 2015 and February 1, 2014, respectively, as compared with the 53 weeks in the 2012 reporting year. The following represents a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed throughout the Overview of Consolidated Results:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

16 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company estimates the tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments by applying its marginal tax rate to each of the respective items.  

During 2013 and 2012, the Company recorded benefits of $3 million and $9 million, or $0.02 per diluted share and $0.06 per diluted share, respectively, to reflect the settlement of foreign tax audits, which resulted in a reduction in tax reserves established in prior periods. Additionally, in 2012, the Company recorded a benefit of $1 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, to reflect the repeal of the last two stages of certain Canadian provincial tax rate changes.  

When assessing Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”), the Company adjusts its results to reflect its operating leases as if they qualified for capital lease treatment. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the presentation of these leases as if they were capital leases is appropriate. Accordingly, the asset base and net income amounts are adjusted to reflect this in the calculation of ROIC. ROIC, subject to certain adjustments, is also used as a measure in executive long-term incentive compensation.  

The closest U.S. GAAP measure is Return on Assets (“ROA”) and is also represented below. ROA increased to 14.7 percent as compared with 12.5 percent in the prior year reflecting the Company’s overall strong performance in 2014. Our ROIC improvement is due to an increase in our earnings before interest and income taxes, partially offset by an increase in our average invested capital, primarily related to an increase in capitalized operating leases. This reflected the effect of opening larger stores, and resulting additional rent, supporting the various shop-in-shop initiatives.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) Represents net income of $520 million, $429 million, and $397 million divided by average total assets of $3,532 million, $3,427 million, and $3,209 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.    

  (2) See below for the calculation of ROIC.    

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (3) The determination of the capitalized operating leases and the adjustments to income have been calculated on a lease-by-lease basis and have been consistently calculated in each of the years presented above. Capitalized operating leases represent the best estimate of the asset base that would be recorded for operating leases as if they had been classified as capital or as if the property were purchased. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 2.8 percent to 14.5 percent, which represent the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease.    

  (4) The adjusted income tax expense represents the marginal tax rate applied to net operating profit for each of the periods presented.     

17 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Overview of Consolidated Results  

The following represents our long-term financial objectives and our progress towards meeting those objectives. The following represents non-GAAP results for all the periods presented. In addition, the 2012 results are shown on a 53-week basis.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our results in 2014 were very strong and we achieved three of our long-term objectives. Highlights of our 2014 financial performance include:  

  • Sales and comparable-store sales, as noted in the table below, both increased and continued to benefit from exciting assortments and enhanced store formats across our various banners, as well as improved performance of the Company’s store banner.com websites.    

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  • Sales from Direct-to-Customers segment increased 21.0 percent to $865 million compared with $715 million in 2013 and increased 110 basis points as a percentage of total sales to 12.1 percent. The direct business has been steadily increasing over the last several years led by the growth in the store banners’ e-commerce sales.    

  • Gross margin, as a percentage of sales, increased by 40 basis points to 33.2 percent in 2014. The improvement was driven by the occupancy and buyers expense rate, which decreased 70 basis points, reflecting effective leverage on higher sales.    

  • SG&A expenses on a non-GAAP basis were 19.9 percent of sales, a decrease of 50 basis points as compared with the prior year, as we carefully managed expenses.    

  • Net income on a non-GAAP basis was $522 million, or $3.58 diluted earnings per share, an increase of 24.7 percent from the prior-year period.    

  • The Company ended the year in a strong financial position. At year end, the Company had $833 million of cash and cash equivalents, net of debt and obligations under capital leases. Cash and cash equivalents at January 31, 2015 were $967 million, representing an increase of $100 million as compared with last year. This reflects both the execution of various key initiatives noted in the items below and the Company’s strong performance.    

  • Cash capital expenditures during 2014 totaled $190 million and were primarily directed to the remodeling or relocation of 319 stores, the build-out of 86 new stores, as well as other technology and infrastructure projects.    

  • Dividends totaling $127 million were declared and paid during 2014, returning significant value to our shareholders.    

  • A total of 5.9 million shares were repurchased under our 2012 share repurchase program at a cost of $305 million.    

  • ROIC increased to 15.0 percent as compared to the prior year result of 14.1 percent, reflecting profitability improvements and a disciplined approach to capital spending.     

18 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Summary of Consolidated Statements of Operations  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales  

All references to comparable-store sales for a given period relate to sales of stores that were open at the period-end and had been open for more than one year. The computation of comparable-store sales also includes the sales of the Direct-to-Customers segment. Stores opened or closed during the period are not included in the comparable-store base; however, stores closed temporarily for relocation or remodeling are included. Computations exclude the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. Sales from acquired businesses that include inventory are included in the computation of comparable-store sales after 15 months of operations. Accordingly, sales of Runners Point Group were included in the computation of comparable-store sales beginning October 2014.  

Sales of $7,151 million in 2014 increased by 9.9 percent from sales of $6,505 million in 2013, this represented comparable-store sales of 8.0 percent. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations and sales of Runners Point Group, sales increased 8.5 percent as compared with 2013.  

Sales of $6,505 million in 2013 increased by 5.2 percent from sales of $6,182 million in 2012, this represented comparable-store sales of 4.2 percent. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations and sales of Runners Point Group, sales increased 2.4 percent as compared with the 53 weeks of 2012. Results for 2012 include the effect of the 53rd week, which represented sales of $81 million.  

The following represents the percentage of sales from each of the major product categories:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross Margin  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in the occupancy and buyers’ compensation rate reflects improved leverage of primarily fixed costs. Merchandise margin declined by 30 basis points as the cost of merchandise increased in 2014 as compared with 2013. This primarily reflects the effect of lower initial markups driven by supplier and category mix, and lower shipping and handling margin, partially offset by lower markdowns.  

The decline in the gross margin rate in 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily reflects the effect of lower initial markups. Excluding the effect of the 53rd week in 2012, the gross margin rate in 2013 was flat as compared with 2012.   

19 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A)  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, SG&A increased by $101 million for 2014 as compared with 2013. Runners Point Group, which was acquired in early July 2013, represented an incremental $39 million in expenses in 2014. Additionally, the Company incurred $2 million in integration costs during 2014. Excluding these items, the increase was driven by higher variable expenses to support sales, such as store wages and banking expenses. As a percentage of sales, SG&A improved 60 basis points representing improved leverage on our sales increase. This improvement reflected continued effective expense management, including store wages, which benefitted from the utilization of hiring and scheduling tools, as well as enhanced associate training.  

Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, SG&A increased by $34 million for 2013 as compared with 2012. Runners Point Group represented an incremental $45 million in expenses. Additionally, the Company incurred $6 million in integration and acquisition costs during 2013. Excluding foreign currency fluctuations, the effect of the acquisition, and the effect of the 53rd week in 2012, SG&A decreased by $4 million. The decrease reflects effective expense management, specifically variable costs.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increases in both 2014 and 2013 reflect increased capital spending on store improvements and technology. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, depreciation and amortization increased $7 million in 2014. The 2014 amount included $2 million of capital accrual adjustments made during the third quarter of 2014 which reduced depreciation and amortization. The change in 2013 as compared with 2012 also included $6 million of Runners Point Group expense.  

Interest Expense, Net  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net interest expense in 2014 was essentially unchanged from 2013 and 2012. The Company did not have any short-term borrowings, other than amounts outstanding in connection with capital leases, for any of the periods presented.  

Income Taxes  

The effective tax rate for 2014 was 35.7 percent, as compared with 35.3 percent in 2013. The Company regularly assesses the adequacy of the provisions for income tax contingencies in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance on accounting for income taxes.   

20 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

As a result, the reserves for unrecognized tax benefits may be adjusted due to new facts and developments, such as changes to interpretations of relevant tax law, assessments from taxing authorities, settlements with taxing authorities, and lapses of statutes of limitations. The effective tax rate for 2014 includes reserve releases totaling $5 million due to audit settlements and lapses of statutes of limitations.  

Excluding the reserve releases in 2014 and in 2013, the effective tax rate for 2014 increased slightly as compared with 2013 primarily due to the higher proportion of income earned in higher tax jurisdictions in 2014.  

The effective tax rate for 2013 was 35.3 percent, as compared with 34.6 percent in 2012. The effective tax rate for 2013 includes reserve releases totaling $6 million due to audit settlements and lapses of statutes of limitations. Additionally, in connection with the purchase of Runners Point Group, the Company recorded a tax expense of $1 million related to non-deductible acquisition costs. Excluding these items as well as the reserve releases in 2012, the effective tax rate for 2013 decreased as compared with 2012 primarily due to the effect of full implementation of international tax planning initiatives in 2013.  

Segment Information  

The Company’s two reportable segments, Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers, are based on its method of internal reporting. The Company evaluates performance based on several factors, the primary financial measure of which is division results. Division profit reflects income before income taxes, corporate expense, non-operating income, and net interest expense.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) Included in the results for 2014, 2013, and 2012 are impairment and other charges of $2 million, $2 million, and $5 million, respectively. The 2014 amount reflected impairment charges to fully write-down the value of certain trademarks. The 2013 and 2012 amounts were incurred in connection with the closure of CCS stores.    

  (2) Included in the results for 2014 and 2012 are non-cash impairment charges of $2 million and $7 million, respectively, related to the CCS trademarks.    

  (3) Corporate expense for 2014 and 2013 reflected the reallocation of expense between corporate and the operating divisions. Based upon annual internal studies of corporate expense, the allocation of such expenses to the operating divisions was increased by $4 million and $27 million for 2014 and 2013, respectively, thereby reducing corporate expense.    

  (4) Other income includes non-operating items such as: gains from insurance recoveries; discounts/premiums paid on the repurchase and retirement of bonds; royalty income; and the changes in fair value, premiums paid, realized gains associated with foreign currency option contracts and property sales. The increase in 2014 as compared with 2013 primarily reflects a $4 million gain on sale of real estate.     

21 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Athletic Stores  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2014 compared with 2013  

Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro and Canadian dollar, sales from the Athletic Stores segment increased 9.4 percent. Comparable-store sales increased by 6.7 percent. This segment includes $133 million of incremental sales related to the Runners Point stores, which were acquired in early July 2013. Excluding the sales of the Runners Point stores, the comparable-store gain was primarily driven by Kids Foot Locker, Foot Locker U.S., Footaction, and Foot Locker Europe. While Lady Foot Locker’s overall sales declined in 2014, the banner experienced a comparable-store gain for the year. The shift into more performance oriented assortments has been resonating with customers, as both footwear and apparel grew on a comparable-store basis. The overall Lady Foot Locker sales decrease primarily reflects a net decline of 44 stores.  

Basketball, running, and children’s footwear were strong drivers of sales increases. Sales of basketball footwear were driven by Jordan and key marquee player styles, while running shoes from Nike and Adidas had strong results. Additionally, children’s footwear continued to perform well across multiple divisions. Apparel sales were challenging primarily in Foot Locker Europe and Champs Sports, as customers have shifted away from certain lifestyle and licensed apparel programs, which had previously driven strong results. This segment continues to benefit from strong banner differentiation, which has created unique store designs and product assortments which have resonated with customers and enhanced the shopping experience.  

Included in the 2014 division profit was a $1 million impairment charge related to the write-down of a tradename for our stores operating in the Republic of Ireland, reflecting historical and projected underperformance, and a $1 million charge to fully write down the value of a private-label brand acquired as part of the Runners Point Group acquisition, as a result of exiting the product line. The overall improvement primarily reflected higher sales, an improved gross margin rate, and effective control over variable expenses, such as store wages.  

2013 compared with 2012  

Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, sales from the Athletic Stores segment increased by 3.7 percent in 2013. Comparable-store sales increased by 3.0 percent. The Athletic Stores segment included $146 million of sales related to the Runners Point stores. Excluding the sales of the Runners Point stores, the increase was primarily driven by Kids Foot Locker, Foot Locker Europe, and Foot Locker U.S. Kids Foot Locker and Foot Locker Europe increased their store count during 2013 by 31 and 14 stores, respectively. The increase in these banners was partially offset by sales declines in Lady Foot Locker, Footaction, and Champs Sports. Lady Foot Locker’s sales declined in 2013 as management closed underperforming stores and redefined the product offerings. Lady Foot Locker’s store count declined by 46 stores during 2013. On a comparable-store sales basis, Footaction reported a modest increase for 2013. Comparable-store sales for Champs Sports were negatively affected, in part, by the level of store remodel projects, which require temporary store closure during remodel.  

Within the Athletic Stores segment, footwear was the biggest driver, led by our children’s category, which had strong gains across all banners. Footwear sales increased in our largest category, basketball, which benefited from key marquee player shoes. The segment is also benefiting from the continued expansion of the shop-in-shop partnerships with our various suppliers.  

Athletic Stores reported a division profit of $656 million in 2013 as compared with $653 million in 2012, an increase of $3 million. Included in the 2013 results are costs of $2 million associated with the closure of the CCS stores. While the results of the Runners Point stores were accretive during the period, it was not significant.   

22 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Additionally, the 2013 results reflect the reallocation of corporate expense to this segment. Excluding these items, division profit margin for 2013 would have been essentially unchanged.  

Direct-to-Customers  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2014 compared with 2013  

Comparable sales increased 17.8 percent from the prior year, led by basketball and running footwear. The Direct-to-Customers segment includes $18 million of incremental sales related to the e-commerce division of Runners Point Group, which the Company acquired during the second quarter of 2013. Excluding these sales, the increase was primarily a result of continued strong sales performance related to the Company’s store-banner websites both in the U.S. and in Europe, as well as increased Eastbay sales. Of the total increase, sales from our U.S. store-banner websites comprised the majority of the increase, reflecting the continued success of several initiatives, including improving the connectivity of the store banners to the e-commerce sites, enhancements to the mobile e-commerce sites, investments in technology to improve the shopping experience, and investments in making the sites more engaging. These increases were offset, in part, by a decline in the CCS business, which was transitioned to the Eastbay banner during the third quarter of 2014.  

Division profit increased by $25 million as compared to 2013, representing a division profit margin improvement of 90 basis points. The 2014 results include a $2 million impairment charge related to the CCS business which was triggered by the Company’s decision to transition the skate business to the Eastbay banner. Gross margin was negatively affected by the liquidation of the CCS merchandise and the effects of providing additional free shipping offers. Notwithstanding this, the increase in division profit was the result of strong flow-through of sales to profit and good expense management.  

2013 compared with 2012  

Comparable sales increased 14.8 percent from the prior year. The Direct-to-Customers segment included $18 million of sales related to the e-commerce division of Runners Point Group. Excluding these sales, the increase was primarily a result of continued strong sales performance related to the Company’s store-banner websites, as well as increased Eastbay sales. Of the total increase, sales from our store-banner websites comprised approximately three quarters of the increase reflecting success of several e-commerce initiatives. These increases were offset, in part, by a further decline in the CCS business.  

The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $84 million in 2013, as compared with $65 million in 2012. The 2013 results reflect the reallocation of corporate expense. Excluding this change, division profit margin would have been 12.3 percent. During 2012, an impairment charge of $7 million was recorded to write down CCS intangible assets. Excluding these items, division profit increased by $17 million. The effect of the Runners Point Group acquisition was not significant to this segment’s 2013 division profit.  

Corporate Expense  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Corporate expense consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses as well as depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s corporate headquarters, centrally managed departments, unallocated   

23 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and other items. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense was $13 million, $12 million, and $13 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  

Corporate expense increased by $5 million in 2014, as compared with 2013. This increase is primarily related to incentive compensation and legal costs, which increased $8 million and $2 million, respectively. Additionally, depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense increased by $1 million. These increases were partially offset by the annual adjustment to the allocation of corporate expense to the operating divisions, which reduced corporate expense by $4 million. In addition, acquisition and integration costs related to Runners Point Group were $4 million less in the current year.  

Corporate expense decreased by $32 million to $76 million in 2013, as compared with 2012. The allocation of corporate expenses to the operating divisions was increased thereby reducing corporate expense by $27 million for 2013. In addition, incentive compensation decreased by $11 million and legal expenses, which in 2012 included a litigation charge, decreased by $4 million. Additionally, depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $1 million. These decreases were partially offset by $6 million of costs related to the Company’s acquisition and integration of Runners Point Group, as well as an increase of $5 million for share-based compensation expense.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Liquidity  

The Company’s primary source of liquidity has been cash flow from earnings, while the principal uses of cash have been to: fund inventory and other working capital requirements; finance capital expenditures related to store openings, store remodelings, Internet and mobile sites, information systems, and other support facilities; make retirement plan contributions, quarterly dividend payments, and interest payments; and fund other cash requirements to support the development of its short-term and long-term operating strategies. The Company generally finances real estate with operating leases. Management believes its cash, cash equivalents, and future cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund these requirements.  

As of January 31, 2015, the Company had $537 million of cash and cash equivalents held in foreign jurisdictions. Because we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from potential future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Depending on the source, amount, and timing of a repatriation, some tax may be payable. The Company believes that its cash invested domestically and future domestic cash flows are sufficient to satisfy domestic requirements.  

The Company may also from time to time repurchase its common stock or seek to retire or purchase outstanding debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. As of January 31, 2015, approximately $65 million was remaining on the share repurchase program. On February 17, 2015, the Board of Directors approved a new 3-year, $1 billion share repurchase program extending through January 2018, replacing the Company’s previous $600 million program.  

Also on February 17, 2015, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share to be paid on May 1, 2015. This dividend represents a 14 percent increase over the Company’s previous quarterly per share amount.  

Any material adverse change in customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, or customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, the Company’s reliance on a few key suppliers for a significant portion of its merchandise purchases and risks associated with global product sourcing, economic conditions worldwide, the effects of currency fluctuations, as well as other factors listed under the heading “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” could affect the ability of the Company to continue to fund its needs from business operations.   

24 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Maintaining access to merchandise that the Company considers appropriate for its business may be subject to the policies and practices of its key suppliers. Therefore, the Company believes that it is critical to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with its key suppliers. In 2014 and 2013, the Company purchased approximately 89 percent and 88 percent, respectively, of its merchandise from its top five suppliers and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these suppliers in future periods. Approximately 73 percent in 2014 and 68 percent in 2013 was purchased from one supplier — Nike, Inc.  

The Company’s 2015 planned capital expenditures and lease acquisition costs are approximately $220 million. Planned capital expenditures are $218 million and planned lease acquisition costs related to the Company’s operations in Europe are $2 million. The Company’s planned capital expenditures include $176 million related to remodeling and expansion of existing stores and the planned opening of approximately 100 new stores primarily related to Kids Foot Locker, European expansion, and SIX:02. Additionally, the planned spending includes $42 million for the development of information systems and infrastructure, including a new e-commerce order management system, point of sale device enhancements, and further rollout of our merchandise allocation system. The Company has the ability to revise and reschedule much of the anticipated capital expenditure program, should the Company’s financial position require it.  

Free Cash Flow (non-GAAP measure)  

In addition to net cash provided by operating activities, the Company uses free cash flow as a useful measure of performance and as an indication of the strength of the Company and its ability to generate cash. The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures (which is classified as an investing activity). The Company believes the presentation of free cash flow is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to evaluate the cash generated from the Company’s underlying operations in a manner similar to the method used by management.  

Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures.  

The following table presents a reconciliation of the Company’s net cash flow provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The amount provided by operating activities reflects income adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes. Adjustments to net income for non-cash items include non-cash impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, share-based compensation expense and related tax benefits. The improvement in 2014 represented the Company’s earnings strength and working capital improvements. During 2014, the Company contributed $6 million to its Canadian qualified pension plans as compared with $2 million contributed in 2013. Cash paid for income taxes was $251 million for 2014 as compared with $175 million for 2013.  

The improvement in 2013 as compared with 2012 also reflected the Company’s earnings strength. During 2012, the Company contributed $25 million and $1 million to its U.S. and Canadian qualified pension plans, respectively. Cash paid for income taxes was $175 million for 2013 as compared with $230 million for 2012.   

25 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Investing Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Capital expenditures in 2014 were $190 million, primarily related to the remodeling of 319 stores, the build-out of 86 new stores, and various corporate technology upgrades. This represented a decrease of $16 million as compared with the prior year, as the timing of certain projects shifted to later in the current year. During 2014, the Company sold real estate for proceeds of $5 million and recorded a gain on sale of $4 million. During 2014, maturities of short-term investments totaled $9 million. This compares with net sales and maturities of $37 million of short-term investments during 2013.  

During 2013, the Company completed its purchase of Runners Point Group for $81 million, net of cash acquired. Capital expenditures in 2013 were $206 million, primarily related to the remodeling of 320 stores, the build-out of 84 new stores, and various corporate technology upgrades. This represented an increase of $43 million as compared with 2012. Net sales and maturities of short-term investments were $37 million during 2013, as compared with net purchases of $49 million during 2012.  

Financing Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of the Company’s return to shareholders initiatives, including its share repurchase program and cash dividend payments, as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During 2014, 2013, and 2012, the Company repurchased 5,888,698 shares, 6,424,286 shares, and 4,000,161 shares of its common stock under its share repurchase programs. Additionally, the Company declared and paid dividends representing a quarterly rate of $0.22, $0.20 and $0.18 per share in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  

Offsetting the amounts above were proceeds received from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $22 million, $30 million, and $48 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. In connection with stock option exercises, the Company recorded excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $12 million, $9 million, and $11 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  

The activity during 2014 also reflected payments on capital lease obligations of $3 million, as compared with $1 million during 2013. These obligations were recorded in connection with the acquisition of the Runners Point Group.  

Capital Structure  

The 2011 Restated Credit Agreement provides for a $200 million asset based revolving credit facility maturing on January 27, 2017. In addition, during the term of the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement, the Company may make up to four requests for additional credit commitments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $200 million. Interest is based on the LIBOR rate in effect at the time of the borrowing plus a 1.25 to 1.50 percent margin depending on certain provisions as defined in the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement.   

26 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The 2011 Restated Credit Agreement provides for a security interest in certain of the Company’s domestic assets, including certain inventory assets, but excluding intellectual property. The Company is not required to comply with any financial covenants as long as there are no outstanding borrowings. With regard to the payment of dividends and share repurchases, there are no restrictions if the Company is not borrowing and the payments are funded through cash on hand. If the Company is borrowing, Availability as of the end of each fiscal month during the subsequent projected six fiscal months following the payment must be at least 20 percent of the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and the Borrowing Base (all terms as defined in the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement). The Company’s management currently does not expect to borrow under the facility in 2015, other than amounts used to support standby letters of credit.  

Credit Rating  

As of March 30, 2015, the Company’s corporate credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are BB+ and Ba1, respectively. In addition, Moody’s Investors Service has rated the Company’s senior unsecured notes Ba2.  

Debt Capitalization and Equity (non-GAAP Measure)  

For purposes of calculating debt to total capitalization, the Company includes the present value of operating lease commitments in total net debt. Total net debt including the present value of operating leases is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 2.8 percent to 14.5 percent, which represent the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the inclusion of the present value of operating leases in total debt is useful to our investors, credit constituencies, and rating agencies.  

The following table sets forth the components of the Company’s capitalization, both with and without the present value of operating leases:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased by $100 million during 2014, which was the result of strong cash flow generation from operating activities. Including the present value of operating leases, the Company’s net debt capitalization percent increased 90 basis points in 2014. The change in total debt including the present value of the operating leases, as compared with the prior-year period, primarily reflects the effect of lease renewals, partially offset by foreign exchange fluctuations.   

27 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Contractual Obligations and Commitments  

The following tables represent the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments at January 31, 2015:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) The amounts presented above represent the contractual maturities of the Company’s long-term debt, including interest; however, it excludes the unamortized gain of the interest rate swap of $12 million. Additional information is included in the Long-Term Debt and Obligations Under Capital Leases note under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”    

  (2) The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Company’s leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance, and other costs. These costs have historically represented approximately 20 to 30 percent of the minimum rent amount. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are unknown.    

  (3) The Company’s other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 31, 2015 primarily comprise pension and postretirement benefits, deferred rent liability, income taxes, workers’ compensation and general liability reserves, and various other accruals. Other than this liability, other amounts (including the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million, as well as penalties and interest of $2 million) have been excluded from the above table as the timing and/or amount of any cash payment is uncertain. The timing of the remaining amounts that are known has not been included as they are minimal and not useful to the presentation. Additional information is included in the Other Liabilities, Financial Instruments and Risk Management, and Retirement Plans and Other Benefits notes under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”    

  (4) Represents open purchase orders, as well as other commitments for merchandise purchases, at January 31, 2015. The Company is obligated under the terms of purchase orders; however, the Company is generally able to renegotiate the timing and quantity of these orders with certain suppliers in response to shifts in consumer preferences.    

  (5) Represents payments required by non-merchandise purchase agreements.    

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

The majority the Company’s contractual obligations relate to operating leases for our stores. Future scheduled lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as of January 31, 2015 are described in the table under Contractual Obligations and Commitments above and with additional information in the Leases note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

The Company does not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities. Our policy prohibits the use of derivatives for which there is no underlying exposure.  

In connection with the sale of various businesses and assets, the Company may be obligated for certain lease commitments transferred to third parties and pursuant to certain normal representations, warranties, or indemnifications entered into with the purchasers of such businesses or assets. Although the maximum potential amounts for such obligations cannot be readily determined, management believes that the resolution of such contingencies will not significantly affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. The Company is also operating certain stores for which lease agreements are in the process of being negotiated with landlords. Although there is no contractual commitment to make these payments, it is likely that leases will be executed.   

28 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Critical Accounting Policies  

Management’s responsibility for integrity and objectivity in the preparation and presentation of the financial statements requires diligent application of appropriate accounting policies. Generally, the Company’s accounting policies and methods are those specifically required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” is a summary of the Company’s most significant accounting policies. In some cases, management is required to calculate amounts based on estimates for matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company believes the following to be the most critical of those accounting policies that necessitate subjective judgments.  

Merchandise Inventories and Cost of Sales  

Merchandise inventories for the Company’s Athletic Stores are valued at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method (“RIM”). The RIM is commonly used by retail companies to value inventories at cost and calculate gross margins due to its practicality. Under the retail method, cost is determined by applying a cost-to-retail percentage across groupings of similar items, known as departments. The cost-to-retail percentage is applied to ending inventory at its current owned retail valuation to determine the cost of ending inventory on a department basis. The RIM is a system of averages that requires management’s estimates and assumptions regarding markups, markdowns and shrink, among others, and as such, could result in distortions of inventory amounts.  

Significant judgment is required for these estimates and assumptions, as well as to differentiate between promotional and other markdowns that may be required to correctly reflect merchandise inventories at the lower of cost or market. The Company provides reserves based on current selling prices when the inventory has not been marked down to market. The failure to take permanent markdowns on a timely basis may result in an overstatement of cost under the retail inventory method. The decision to take permanent markdowns includes many factors, including the current retail environment, inventory levels, and the age of the item. Management believes this method and its related assumptions, which have been consistently applied, to be reasonable.  

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Intangibles  

The Company performs an impairment review when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, a triggering event, comprises measurable operating performance criteria at the division level as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis is necessitated by the occurrence of a triggering event, the Company uses assumptions, which are predominately identified from the Company’s strategic long-range plans, in performing an impairment review. In the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets, the Company compares the carrying amount of the asset with the estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows, the Company measures the amount of the impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with its estimated fair value. The estimation of fair value is measured by discounting expected future cash flows at the Company’s weighted-average cost of capital. Management believes its policy is reasonable and is consistently applied. Future expected cash flows are based upon estimates that, if not achieved, may result in significantly different results.  

The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter of its fiscal year or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. The review of impairment consists of either using a qualitative approach to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the assets is less than their respective carrying values or a two-step impairment test, if necessary. In performing the qualitative assessment, management considers many factors in evaluating whether the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, including declines in stock price and market capitalization in relation to the book value of the Company and macroeconomic conditions affecting retail. If, based on the results of the qualitative assessment, it is concluded that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, additional quantitative impairment testing is performed using a two-step test. The initial step requires that the carrying value of each reporting unit be compared with its estimated fair value. The second step — to evaluate goodwill of a reporting unit for impairment — is only required if the carrying value of that reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.   

29 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

In 2014, the Company elected to perform its review of goodwill using the two-step impairment test approach. The Company used a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The determination of discounted cash flows of the reporting units and assets and liabilities within the reporting units requires significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, earnings before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. The market approach requires judgment and uses one or more methods to compare the reporting unit with similar businesses, business ownership interests, or securities that have been sold. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. The Company has evaluated the merits of each significant assumption, both individually and in the aggregate, used to determine the fair value of the reporting units, as well as the fair values of the corresponding assets and liabilities within the reporting units, and concluded they are reasonable and are consistent with prior valuations. The fair value of all the reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values.  

Owned trademarks and tradenames that have been determined to have indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but are reviewed at least annually for potential impairment. The fair values of purchased intangible assets are estimated and compared to their carrying values. We estimate the fair value of these intangible assets based on an income approach using the relief-from-royalty method. This methodology assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of these types of assets. This approach is dependent on a number of factors, including estimates of future growth and trends, royalty rates in the category of intellectual property, discount rates, and other variables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. During 2014, impairment charges totaled $4 million.  

Share-Based Compensation  

The Company estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes option pricing valuation model requires the use of subjective assumptions. Changes in these assumptions, listed below, can materially affect the fair value of the options.  

Risk-free Interest Rate — The risk-free interest rate is determined using the Federal Reserve nominal rates for U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds with maturities similar to those of the expected term of the award being valued.  

Expected Volatility — The Company estimates the expected volatility of its common stock at the grant date using a weighted-average of the Company’s historical volatility and implied volatility from traded options on the Company’s common stock. A 50 basis point change in volatility would cause a 1 percent change to the fair value.  

Expected Term — The expected term of options granted is estimated using historical exercise and post-vesting employment termination patterns, which the Company believes are representative of future behavior. Changing the expected term by one year changes the fair value by 7 to 8 percent depending on if the change was an increase or decrease to the expected term.  

Dividend Yield — The expected dividend yield is derived from the Company’s historical experience. A 50 basis point change to the dividend yield would change the fair value by approximately 5 percent.  

Share-based compensation expense is recorded for those awards expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate based on the Company’s historical pre-vesting forfeiture data, which it believes are representative of future behavior, and periodically will revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.   

30 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Pension and Postretirement Liabilities  

Management reviews all assumptions used to determine its obligations for pension and postretirement liabilities annually with its independent actuaries, taking into consideration existing and future economic conditions and the Company’s intentions with regard to the plans. The assumptions used are:  

Long-Term Rate of Return — The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return expected to be earned on the plans’ assets and is recognized as a component of pension expense. The rate is based on the plans’ weighted-average target asset allocation, as well as historical and future expected performance of those assets. The target asset allocation is selected to obtain an investment return that is sufficient to cover the expected benefit payments and to reduce future contributions by the Company. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. The weighted-average long-term rate of return used to determine 2014 pension expense was 6.25 percent.  

A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return would have increased 2014 pension expense by approximately $3 million. The actual return on plan assets in a given year typically differs from the expected long-term rate of return, and the resulting gain or loss is deferred and amortized into expense over the average life expectancy of its inactive participants.  

Discount Rate — An assumed discount rate is used to measure the present value of future cash flow obligations of the plans and the interest cost component of pension expense and postretirement income. The cash flows are then discounted to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. The discount rate is determined by reference to the Bond:Link interest rate model based upon a portfolio of highly rated U.S. corporate bonds with individual bonds that are theoretically purchased to settle the plan’s anticipated cash outflows. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Company’s Canadian benefit obligations was developed by using the plan’s bond portfolio indices, which match the benefit obligations. The weighted-average discount rates used to determine the 2014 benefit obligations related to the Company’s pension and postretirement plans were 3.43 percent and 3.40 percent, respectively.  

Changing the weighted-average discount rate by 50 basis points would have changed the accumulated benefit obligation of the pension plans at January 31, 2015 by approximately $35 million and $38 million, depending on if the change was an increase or decrease, respectively. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average discount rate would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation on the postretirement plan by approximately $2 million. Such a decrease would not have significantly changed 2014 pension expense or postretirement income.  

Trend Rate — The Company maintains two postretirement medical plans, one covering certain executive officers and key employees of the Company (“SERP Medical Plan”), and the other covering all other associates. With respect to the SERP Medical Plan, a one percent change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would change this plan’s accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $4 million and $3 million, depending on if the change was an increase or decrease, respectively. With respect to the postretirement medical plan covering all other associates, there is limited risk to the Company for increases in health care costs since, beginning in 2001, new retirees have assumed the full expected costs and then-existing retirees have assumed all increases in such costs.  

Mortality Assumptions — In 2014, the Company changed the mortality table used to calculate the present value of pension and postretirement plan liabilities, excluding the SERP Medical Plan. We previously used the RP 2000 mortality table projected with scale AA to 2019 for males and to 2013 for females. In 2014, we used the RP 2000 mortality table with generational projection using scale AA for both males and females. This mortality table was chosen after considering alternative tables including the RP-2014 table. We chose the RP 2000 table because it resulted in the closest match to the Company’s actual experience. For the SERP Medical Plan, the mortality assumption was updated to the RP 2014 table with generational projection using MP 2014. These changes did not significantly affect the Company’s total obligations.  

The Company expects to record postretirement income of approximately $1 million and pension expense of approximately $16 million in 2015.   

31 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Income Taxes  

In accordance with U.S. GAAP, deferred tax assets are recognized for tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards, reduced by a valuation allowance, which is established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management is required to estimate taxable income for future years by taxing jurisdiction and to use its judgment to determine whether or not to record a valuation allowance for part or all of a deferred tax asset. Estimates of taxable income are based upon the Company’s strategic long-range plans. A one percent change in the Company’s overall statutory tax rate for 2014 would have resulted in a $5 million change in the carrying value of the net deferred tax asset and a corresponding charge or credit to income tax expense depending on whether the tax rate change was a decrease or an increase.  

The Company has operations in multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. Tax audits by their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve. Accruals of tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgments with respect to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual results could vary from these estimates.  

The Company expects its 2015 effective tax rate to approximate 36.5 percent, excluding the effect of any nonrecurring items that may occur. The actual tax rate will vary depending primarily on the level and mix of income earned in the United States as compared with its international operations.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

Descriptions of the recently issued accounting principles, if any, and the accounting principles adopted by the Company during the year ended January 31, 2015 are included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Other than statements of historical facts, all statements which address activities, events, or developments that the Company anticipates will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, such things as future capital expenditures, expansion, strategic plans, financial objectives, dividend payments, stock repurchases, growth of the Company’s business and operations, including future cash flows, revenues, and earnings, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors which are detailed in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the effects of currency fluctuations, customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, the Company’s reliance on a few key suppliers for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key supplier), pandemics and similar major health concerns, unseasonable weather, deterioration of global financial markets, economic conditions worldwide, deterioration of business and economic conditions, any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to the threat of future terrorist activities in the United States or in other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas, the ability of the Company to execute its business and strategic plans effectively with regard to each of its business units, and risks associated with global product sourcing, including political instability, changes in import regulations, and disruptions to transportation services and distribution.  

For additional discussion on risks and uncertainties that may affect forward-looking statements, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A. Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.   

32 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk