PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

General Information  

Fifth Third Bancorp (the “Bancorp”), an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is a bank holding company (“BHC”) as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), and has elected to be treated as a financial holding company (“FHC”) under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”) and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”).  

The Bancorp is a diversified financial services company headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $142 billion in assets and operates 1,154 full-service Banking Centers, and 2,469 ATMs in Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, West Virginia, Georgia and North Carolina. Fifth Third operates four main businesses: Commercial Banking, Branch Banking, Consumer Lending, and Wealth & Asset Management. As of December 31, 2017 Fifth Third’s interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC was approximately 8.6%. The carrying value of the Bancorp’s investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC was $219 million as of December 31, 2017. Fifth Third is among the largest money managers in the Midwest and, as of December 31, 2017, had $362 billion in assets under care, of which it managed $37 billion for individuals, corporations and not-for-profit organizations. Investor information and press releases can be viewed at www.53.com. Fifth Third’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ® Global Select Market under the symbol “FITB.”  

The Bancorp’s subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial products and services to the commercial, financial, retail, governmental, educational, energy and healthcare sectors. This includes a wide range of checking, savings and money market accounts, wealth management solutions, payments and commerce solutions, insurance services and credit products such as commercial loans and leases, mortgage loans, credit cards, installment loans, and auto loans. These products and services are delivered through a variety of channels including the Company’s Banking Centers, other offices, telephone sales, the internet and mobile applications. Fifth Third Bank has deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) through the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as an attachment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of December 31, 2017.  

The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Additional information regarding the Bancorp’s businesses is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Availability of Financial Information  

The Bancorp files reports with the SEC. Those reports include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. The public may read and copy any materials the Bancorp files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The Bancorp’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are accessible at no cost on the Bancorp’s web site at www.53.com on a same day basis after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

Competition  

The Bancorp competes for deposits, loans and other banking services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to traditional financial institutions, the Bancorp competes with securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, specialty finance, telecommunications, technology and insurance companies as well as large retailers. These companies compete across geographic boundaries and provide customers with meaningful alternatives to traditional banking services in nearly all significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology, product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. These competitive trends are likely to continue.  

Acquisitions and Investments  

The Bancorp’s strategy for growth includes strengthening its presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and broadening its product offerings while taking into account the integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates strategic acquisition and investment opportunities and conducts due diligence activities in connection with possible transactions. As a result, discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur. These typically involve the payment of a premium over book value and current market price, and therefore, some dilution of book value and net income per share may occur with any future transactions.  

Regulation and Supervision  

In addition to the generally applicable state and federal laws governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions and their parent companies. Virtually all aspects of the business of the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to specific requirements or restrictions and general regulatory oversight. The principal objectives of state and federal banking laws and regulations and the supervision, regulation and examination of banks and their parent companies (such as the Bancorp) by bank regulatory agencies are the maintenance of the safety and soundness of financial institutions, maintenance of the federal deposit insurance system and the protection of consumers or classes of consumers, rather than the protection of shareholders of a bank or the parent company of a bank. 

180 Fifth Third Bancorp  

Table of Contents 

 The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to an extensive regulatory framework of complex and comprehensive federal and state laws and regulations addressing the provision of banking and other financial services and other aspects of the Bancorp’s businesses and operations. Regulation and regulatory oversight have increased significantly since 2010 as a result of the passage of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “DFA”). To the extent the following material describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statute or regulation.  

Regulators  

The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the FRB, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions (the “Division”) and additionally by certain other functional regulators and self-regulatory organizations. The Bancorp is also subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of its status as a public company and due to the nature of some of its businesses. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to regulation by the FDIC, which insures the bank’s deposits as permitted by law.  

The federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable to banks and to BHCs regulate, among other matters, the scope of their business, their activities, their investments, their capital and liquidity levels, their ability to make capital distributions (such as share repurchases and dividends), their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual and related borrowers and the nature, the amount of and collateral for certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged on loans as applicable. Various federal and state consumer laws and regulations also affect the services provided to consumers.  

The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are required to file various reports with, and is subject to examination by regulators, including the FRB and the Division. The FRB, the Division and the CFPB have the authority to issue orders for BHCs and/or banks to cease and desist from certain banking practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of agreements with, the FRB, the Division and the CFPB. Certain of the Bancorp’s and/or its banking subsidiary regulators are also empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or individuals in certain situations, such as when there is a violation of a law or regulation. Applicable state and federal laws also grant certain regulators the authority to impose additional requirements and restrictions on the activities of the Bancorp and or its banking subsidiary and, in some situations, the imposition of such additional requirements and restrictions will not be publicly available information.  

Acquisitions  

The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB for a BHC to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank or to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any bank, BHC or savings association, or to increase any such non-majority ownership or control of any bank, BHC or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with any BHC.  

The BHCA prohibits a BHC from acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of a company that is not a bank or a BHC and from 

 engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its banking subsidiaries, except that it may engage in and may own shares of companies engaged in certain activities the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be proper incident thereto.  

Financial Holding Companies  

A FHC is permitted to engage directly or indirectly in a broader range of activities than those permitted for a BHC under the BHCA. Permitted activities for a FHC include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation with the Treasury Department, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or are declared by the FRB unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. In addition, a FHC is allowed to conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the FRB. A BHC may elect to become a FHC if each of its banking subsidiaries is well capitalized, is well managed and has at least a “Satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). The DFA also extended the well capitalized and well managed requirement to the BHC. To maintain FHC status, a holding company must continue to meet certain requirements. The failure to meet such requirements could result in material restrictions on the activities of the FHC and may also adversely affect the FHC’s ability to enter into certain transactions (including mergers and acquisitions) or obtain necessary approvals in connection therewith, as well as loss of FHC status. If restrictions are imposed on the activities of an FHC, such information may not necessarily be available to the public.  

Dividends  

The Bancorp depends in part upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect banking subsidiary, to fund its activities, including the payment of dividends. The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to various federal and state restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice.  

The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for BHCs to pay dividends unless a BHC’s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. In addition, the Bancorp’s ability to make capital distributions, including dividends is subject to the FRB’s non-objection to the Bancorp’s capital plan as part of the FRB’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) process discussed below (see Systemically Significant Companies and Capital).  

Source of Strength  

Under long-standing FRB policy and now as codified in the DFA, a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its banking subsidiaries and to commit resources to their support. This support may be required at times when the BHC may not have the resources to provide it. 

181 Fifth Third Bancorp  

Table of Contents 

FDIC Assessments  

Under the FDIC’s assessment system for determining payments to the DIF insured depository institutions with more than $10 billion in assets (“large IDIs”) are assessed under a complex “scorecard” methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs. The assessment base of a large IDI is its total assets less tangible equity. This assessment base affords the FDIC much greater flexibility to vary its assessment system based upon the different asset classes that large IDIs normally hold on their balance sheets.  

During the first quarter of 2016, the FDIC issued a final rule implementing a 4.5 bps surcharge on the quarterly FDIC insurance assessments of large IDIs. The Bancorp became subject to the FDIC surcharge and reduced regular FDIC insurance assessments on July 1, 2016. The surcharges will continue through the quarter that the DIF reserve ratio first reaches or exceeds 1.35% of insured deposits, but not later than December 31, 2018. If the reserve ratio does not reach 1.35% by December 31, 2018, the FDIC will impose a shortfall assessment on March 31, 2019, on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more, such as the Bancorp.  

Transactions with Affiliates  

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the FRB’s Regulation W restrict transactions between a bank and its affiliates, including a parent BHC. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to these restrictions, which include quantitative and qualitative limits on the amounts and types of transactions that may take place, including extensions of credit to affiliates, investments in the stock or securities of affiliates, purchases of assets from affiliates and certain other transactions with affiliates. These restrictions also require that credit transactions with affiliates be collateralized and that transactions with affiliates be on market terms or better for the bank. Generally, a bank’s covered transactions with any affiliate are limited to 10% of the bank’s capital stock and surplus and covered transactions with all affiliates are limited to 20% of the bank’s capital stock and surplus.  

Community Reinvestment Act  

The CRA generally requires insured depository institutions, including the Bank, to identify the communities they serve and to make loans and investments and provide services that meet the credit needs of those communities and the CRA requires the FRB to evaluate the performance of such depository institutions with respect to these CRA obligations. Depository institutions must maintain comprehensive records of their CRA activities for purposes of these examinations. The FRB must take into account the record of performance of depository institutions in meeting the credit needs of the entire community served, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. For purposes of CRA examinations, the FRB rates such institutions’ compliance with the CRA as “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” The FRB conducted a regularly scheduled examination covering 2014 through 2016 to determine the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary’s compliance with the CRA. This CRA examination resulted in a change in rating from “Needs to Improve” to “Outstanding”.  

Capital Generally  

The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to the FRB’s capital adequacy rules. Failure to meet capital requirements could 

 subject the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary to a variety of restrictions and enforcement actions.  

Systemically Significant Companies and Capital  

Pursuant to Title I of the DFA, U.S. BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including Fifth Third, are subject to enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements. The FRB imposes enhanced capital and risk-management standards on these firms and conducts annual stress tests on all BHCs with $50 billion or more in assets to determine whether they have adequate capital available to absorb losses in baseline, adverse, or severely adverse economic conditions.  

BHCs with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets must submit capital plans to the FRB on an annual basis, and those BHCs are generally required to receive the FRB’s non-objection to their capital plan before making a capital distribution, such as a share repurchase or dividend. In addition, even with an approved capital plan, a BHC must seek the approval of the FRB before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, the BHC would not meet its regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution.  

Under its CCAR process, the FRB annually evaluates capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy, assessment processes and capital distribution plans of BHCs with $50 billion or more in assets. The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that those BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company’s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. The mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital over a nine-quarter planning horizon, a description of all planned capital actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the BHC’s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the BHC’s process for assessing capital adequacy and the BHC’s capital policy. A BHC’s ability to make capital distributions – that is, dividends and share repurchases – is subject to limitations if the amount of the BHC’s actual capital issuances are less than the amounts indicated in the BHC’s capital plan as to which it received a non-objection from the FRB. The 2018 capital plan must be submitted to the FRB by April 5, 2018.  

In 2013, the U.S. banking regulators approved final regulatory capital rules (the “Final Capital Rules”) that substantially revised the risk-based capital requirements applicable to BHCs and their depository institution subsidiaries, such as the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary, as compared to the previous U.S. risk-based and leverage capital rules. The Final Capital Rules were based on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s (“Basel Committee”) capital framework for enhancing international capital standards (referred to as Basel III) and also implemented certain provisions of the DFA.  

The Final Capital Rules, among other things, (i) include a new capital measure “Common Equity Tier I” (“CET1”), (ii) specify that Tier I capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier I capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations. CET1 capital consists of common stock instruments that meet the eligibility criteria in the final rules, including common stock and related surplus, net of treasury stock, retained earnings, certain minority interests and, for certain firms, accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”). Under the Final Capital Rules, the Bancorp made a one-time election (the “Opt-out Election”) to filter certain AOCI components, with the result that those components are not recognized in the Bancorp’s CET1. 

182 Fifth Third Bancorp  

Table of Contents 

When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the Final Capital Rules require banking organizations to maintain a capital conservation buffer. For more information related to the capital conservation buffer, refer to Note 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

The Final Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant common stock investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. In September 2017, the U.S. banking regulators proposed to revise and simplify the deductions for these items for banking organizations, such as the Bancorp, that are not subject to the “advanced approaches” under the Final Capital Rules.  

The Final Capital Rules were effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2015, with certain provisions subject to phase-in periods. In November 2017, the U.S. banking regulators revised the Final Capital Rules to extend the current transitional treatment of the deductions described above for non-advanced approaches banking organizations until the September 2017 proposal is finalized.  

In December 2017, the Basel Committee published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms (the standards are commonly referred to as “Basel IV”). Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee’s standardized approach for credit risk (including by recalibrating risk weights and introducing new capital requirements for certain “unconditionally cancellable commitments,” such as unused credit card lines of credit) and provides a new standardized approach for operational risk capital. Under the Basel framework, these standards will generally be effective on January 1, 2022, with an aggregate output floor phasing in through January 1, 2027. Under the current U.S. capital rules, operational risk capital requirements and a capital floor apply only to advanced approaches institutions, and not to the Bancorp or the Bank. The impact of Basel IV will depend on the manner in which it is implemented by the U.S. banking regulators.  

The FRB’s rules require BHCs with $10 billion or more in consolidated assets to establish risk committees and require BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management standards, including company-run liquidity stress testing using various time horizons and a buffer of highly liquid assets based on projected funding needs for a 30-day time horizon. These liquidity-related provisions are designed to be complementary to the Final LCR Rule applicable to BHCs (as discussed below). Rules to implement two other components of the DFA’s enhanced prudential standards –single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements– are still under consideration by the FRB. Fifth Third has conducted a self-evaluation of all the requirements within the enhanced prudential standards, and believe the necessary steps have been taken to ensure compliance with all requirements regarding liquidity, risk exposures, and early remediation. 

Liquidity Regulation  

Liquidity risk management and supervision have become increasingly important since the financial crisis. In addition to the liquidity buffer requirement discussed above, the Bancorp is subject to the U.S. banking regulators final rule (the “Final LCR Rule”) implementing the Basel Committee’s Liquidity Coverage Ratio requirement (“LCR”), which is designed to ensure that banking entities maintain an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets (“HQLA”) under an acute 30-day liquidity stress scenario. The LCR Rule applies in modified, less stringent form to BHCs, such as the Bancorp, having $50 billion or more but less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets and less than $10 billion in total on-balance sheet foreign exposure. The LCR is the ratio of an institution’s HQLA (the numerator) over projected net cash out-flows over the 30-day horizon (the denominator), in each case, as calculated pursuant to the Final LCR Rule. The Final LCR Rule became fully phased-in on January 1, 2017, and a subject institution must maintain an LCR equal to at least 100%. Only specific classes of assets, including U.S. Treasuries, other U.S. government obligations and agency mortgaged-backed securities, qualify under the rule as HQLA, with classes of assets deemed relatively less liquid and/or subject to greater degree of credit risk subject to certain haircuts and caps for purposes of calculating the numerator under the Final LCR Rule. The total net cash outflows amount is determined under the rule by applying prescribed outflow and inflow rates against the balances of the banking organization’s funding sources, obligations, transactions and assets over the 30-day stress period. Inflows that can be included to offset outflows are limited to 75% of outflows (which effectively means that banking organizations must hold HQLA equal to 25% of outflows even if outflows perfectly match inflows over the stress period). The total net cash outflow amount for the modified LCR applicable to the Bancorp is capped at 70% of the outflow rate that applies to the full LCR. The LCR is a minimum requirement, and the FRB can impose additional liquidity requirements as a supervisory matter.  

In addition to the LCR, the Basel III framework also included a second standard, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), which is designed to promote more medium-and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. In May, 2016, the U.S. banking regulators proposed a rule to implement the NSFR. As proposed, the most stringent requirements would apply to firms with $250 billion or more in assets or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure. Holding companies with less than $250 billion, but more than $50 billion in assets and less than $10 billion in on-balance foreign exposure, such as the Bancorp, would be subject to a less stringent, modified NFSR requirement. As proposed the NSFR rule would have taken effect on January 1, 2018; however, the U.S. banking regulators have not issued a final rule.  

Privacy and Data Security  

The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines (the “Guidelines) for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. The Guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its Board of Directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. 

183 Fifth Third Bancorp  

Table of Contents 

 In addition, various U.S. regulators, including the Federal Reserve and the SEC, have increased their focus on cyber-security through guidance, examinations and regulations. The Bancorp has adopted a customer information security program that has been approved by the Bancorp’s Board of Directors.  

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the banking subsidiary’s policies and procedures. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary has implemented a privacy policy.  

Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions  

The Bancorp is subject to federal laws that are designed to counter money laundering and terrorist financing, and transactions with persons, companies, or foreign governments sanctioned by the United States. These include the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and regulations for the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Trading with the Enemy Act, as administered by the United States Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control. These laws obligate depository institutions and broker-dealers to verify their customers’ identity, conduct customer due diligence, report on suspicious activity, file reports of transactions in currency, and conduct enhanced due diligence on certain accounts. They also prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in transactions with certain designated restricted countries and persons. Depository institutions and broker-dealers are required by their federal regulators to maintain robust policies and procedures in order to ensure compliance with these obligations.  

Failure to comply with these laws or maintain an adequate compliance program can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational damage, and federal regulators evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining whether to approve a proposed bank merger, acquisition, restructuring, or other expansionary activity. There have been a number of significant enforcement actions by regulators, as well as state attorneys general and the Department of Justice, against banks, broker-dealers and non-bank financial institutions with respect to these laws and some have resulted in substantial penalties, including criminal pleas. The Bancorp’s Board has approved policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with these laws  

Executive Compensation  

Pursuant to the DFA, the SEC adopted rules in 2011 requiring that each public company give its shareholders the opportunity to vote on the compensation of its executives at least once every three years. The SEC also adopted rules on disclosure and voting requirements for golden parachute compensation that is payable to named executive officers in connection with sale transactions.  

The SEC’s rules also direct the stock exchanges to prohibit listing classes of equity securities of a company if a company’s compensation committee members are not independent. The rules also provide that a company’s compensation committee may only select a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor after taking into consideration factors to be identified by the SEC 

 that affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor.  

In August 2015, the SEC adopted final rules implementing the pay ratio provisions of the DFA by requiring companies to disclose the ratio of the compensation of its chief executive officer to the median compensation of its employees. Under SEC guidance issued in September 2017, companies such as the Bancorp will be able to use widely-recognized tests to determine who counts as an employee under the rule, use existing internal records such as payroll and tax information and describe the ratio as an estimate. For a registrant with a fiscal year ending on December 31, such as Bancorp, the pay ratio will be required as part of its executive compensation disclosure in proxy statements or Form 10-Ks filed starting in 2018.  

The DFA provides that the SEC must issue rules directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing any security of a company unless the company develops and implements a policy providing for disclosure of the policy of the company on incentive-based compensation that is based on financial information required to be reported under the securities laws. In the event the company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the company with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the company will recover from any current or former executive officer of the company who received incentive-based compensation during the three-year period preceding the date on which the company is required to prepare the restatement based on the erroneous data, any exceptional compensation above what would have been paid under the restatement.  

The DFA requires the SEC to adopt a rule to require that each company disclose in the proxy materials for its annual meetings whether an employee or board member is permitted to purchase financial instruments designed to hedge or offset decreases in the market value of equity securities granted as compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board member.  

In June 2016, the SEC and the federal banking agencies issued a proposed rule to implement the incentive-based compensation provisions of section 956 of the DFA. The proposal would establish new requirements for incentive-based compensation at institutions with assets of at least $1 billion. No final rule has been issued.  

Debit Card Interchange Fees  

The DFA provides for a set of new rules requiring that interchange transaction fees for electric debit transactions be “reasonable” and proportional to certain costs associated with processing the transactions. The FRB was given authority to, among other things, establish standards for assessing whether interchange fees are reasonable and proportional. The FRB has issued a final rule establishing certain standards and prohibitions pursuant to the DFA, including establishing standards for debit card interchange fees and allowing for an upward adjustment if the issuer develops and implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent fraud. The rule imposes requirements on the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary and may negatively impact its revenues and results of operations.  

FDIC Matters and Resolution Planning  

Title II of the DFA creates an orderly liquidation process that the FDIC can employ for failing systemically important financial companies. Additionally, the DFA also codifies many of the temporary changes that had already been implemented, such as permanently increasing the amount of deposit insurance to $250,000. 

184 Fifth Third Bancorp  

Table of Contents 

The FDIC’s rules require an insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in total assets to submit periodic contingency plans to the FDIC for resolution in the event of the institution’s failure. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to this rule and submitted its most recent resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2015.  

The FRB’s and FDIC’s rule implementing the resolution planning requirements of Section 165(d) of the DFA requires BHCs with assets of $50 billion or more and nonbank financial firms designated by FSOC for supervision by the FRB to annually submit resolution plans to the FDIC and FRB. Each plan shall describe the company’s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy during times of financial distress. Under the rule, companies must submit their initial resolution plans on a staggered basis. In August 2016, the FDIC and the FRB announced that 38 firms, including Fifth Third, will be required to submit their next resolutions by December 31, 2017. The Bancorp submitted its resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2016 by the required December 31, 2017 deadline.  

Proprietary Trading and Investing in Certain Funds  

The DFA sets forth restrictions on banking organizations’ ability to engage in proprietary trading and sponsor or invest in “covered funds,” such as private equity and hedge funds (the “Volcker Rule”). The Volcker Rule generally prohibits any banking entity from engaging in short-term proprietary trading for its own account, but permits transactions in certain securities (such as securities of the U.S. government), transactions on behalf of customers and activities such as market making, underwriting and risk-mitigating hedging. In addition, the Volcker Rule limits the sponsorship of or investment in a covered fund by any banking entity. The Volcker Rule also prohibits certain types of transactions between a banking entity and any covered fund that is sponsored by the banking entity or for which it serves as investment manager or investment advisor, similar to those transactions between banks and their affiliates that are limited as described above. The FRB granted extensions to banking entities, including the Bancorp, to conform to the requirements of the Volcker Rule with respect to “illiquid funds”, as defined in the Volcker Rule. The Bancorp is also required to maintain a satisfactory Volcker Rule compliance program.  

Derivatives  

Title VII of the DFA includes measures to broaden the scope of derivative instruments subject to regulation by requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives, imposing new capital and margin requirements for certain market participants and imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter derivatives. Fifth Third Bank is provisionally registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer. As with the Volcker Rule, the Bank is required to maintain a satisfactory compliance program to monitor its activities under these regulations. Certain regulations implementing Title VII of the DFA have not been finalized. The ultimate impact of these regulations, and the time it will take to comply, continues to remain uncertain. The final regulations may impose additional operational and compliance costs and may require the restructuring of certain businesses and may negatively impact revenues and results of operations. 

Future Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives  

Federal and state legislators as well as regulatory agencies may introduce or enact new laws and rules, or amend existing laws and rules, that may affect the regulation of financial institutions and their holding companies. The impact of any future legislative or regulatory changes cannot be predicted. However, such changes could affect Bancorp’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

185 Fifth Third Bancorp  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS