Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

This section includes a discussion of our results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2014. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Overview  

Our Company’s goals are targeted at serving our customers, our employees, the environment, the communities in which we work and our stockholders, and achievement of our goals is intended to meet the needs of a changing industry. Our Company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. Increasingly, customers want more of their waste materials recovered, while waste streams are becoming more complex, and our aim is to address, and anticipate, the current, expanding and evolving needs of our customers. Accomplishment of our goals will grow our Company and allow us to meet the needs of our customers and communities as they, too, Think Green®.  

We believe we are uniquely equipped to meet the challenges of the changing waste industry and our customers’ waste management needs, both today and as we work together to envision and create a more sustainable future. As the waste industry leader, we have the expertise necessary to collect and handle our customers’ waste efficiently and responsibly by delivering environmental performance — maximizing resource value, while minimizing environmental impact — so that both our economy and our environment can thrive. Drawing on our resources and experience, we also pursue projects and initiatives that benefit the waste industry, the customers and communities we serve and the environment.  

We remain dedicated to providing long-term value to our stockholders by successfully executing our strategy: to know and service our customers better than anyone in our industry, to extract more value from the materials we manage, and to innovate and optimize our business. We plan to accomplish our strategic goals through competitive advantages derived from a “best cost” structure achieved through operational improvements and differentiation in our industry, driven by capitalizing on our extensive, well-placed network of assets. While we will continue to monitor emerging diversion technologies that may generate additional value, our current attention will be on improving existing diversion technologies, such as recycling operations.  

In pursuit of these long-term goals, we recognize that we must grow the business, and do so as efficiently and cost effectively as possible. Accordingly, we are focusing on the following five key company priorities:  

   •   Customers: provide the best possible service to our customers;  

   •   Traditional Waste Business: continuously improve our operational performance;  

   •   Growth: take advantage of opportunities in our current business, as well as considering attractive acquisition opportunities;  

   •   Yield Management: remain focused on price leadership while considering competitive dynamics; and  

   •   Costs: minimize both operating costs and selling, general & administrative expenses.  

We believe that execution of our strategy through these key priorities will drive continued financial performance and leadership in a dynamic industry.  

Notable items of our 2014 financial results include:  

   •    Revenues of $13,996 million in 2014 compared with $13,983 million in 2013, an increase of $13 million. This increase in revenues is primarily attributable to (i) positive revenue growth from  

32  

Table of Contents 

     yield on our collection and disposal operations of $262 million, or 2.3%, and (ii) revenue from acquired operations, particularly the RCI operations acquired in July 2013, which increased revenues by $77 million. Substantially offsetting these increases were (i) lower volumes which decreased our revenues by $188 million; (ii) divestitures of our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets as well as the December 2014 sale of our Wheelabrator business, which decreased our revenues by $90 million and (iii) foreign currency translation of $61 million related to our Canadian operations;  

   •   Operating expenses of $9,002 million in 2014, or 64.3% of revenues, compared with $9,112 million, or 65.2% of revenues, in 2013. This decrease of $110 million is largely driven by our decline in collection volumes and divestitures, both of which affect several of our operating expense categories, particularly labor costs, transfer and disposal costs, and fuel costs;  

   •   Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1,481 million in 2014, or 10.6% of revenues, compared with $1,468 million, or 10.5% of revenues, in 2013. This increase of $13 million is driven mainly by higher litigation settlements;  

   •   Restructuring costs of $82 million in 2014 compared to $18 million in 2013. The 2014 restructuring charges relate to the consolidation and realignment of several Corporate functions. We anticipate saving in excess of $100 million annually from these actions when fully implemented in 2015;  

   •   Income from operations of $2,299 million, or 16.4% of revenues, in 2014 compared with $1,079 million, or 7.7% of revenues, in 2013, the increase of which is primarily attributable to the $519 million gain on the sale of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014 and impairment charges of $355 million recognized in 2014 compared to impairment charges of $981 million recognized in 2013 discussed below;  

   •   Net income attributable to Waste Management, Inc. of $1,298 million, or $2.79 per diluted share for 2014, as compared with $98 million, or $0.21 per diluted share for 2013, the increase of which is primarily attributable to the increase in income from operations discussed above; and  

   •   In 2014, we returned $1,293 million to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases compared with $922 million in 2013.  

The following explanation of certain items that impacted the comparability of our 2014 results with 2013 has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2014 results were affected by the following:  

   •   The recognition of net pre-tax gains of $515 million, which includes the $519 million gain on the sale of our Wheelabrator business. These items had a positive impact of $1.10 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   •   Net income was negatively impacted by the recognition of net pre-tax charges aggregating $420 million primarily related to (i) $272 million of charges to impair our oil and gas producing properties; (ii) $69 million of charges to impair investments related to waste diversion technology companies; (iii) $31 million of litigation settlements; (iv) $10 million of goodwill impairment charges associated with our recycling operations; and (v) other charges to write down the carrying value of assets to their estimated fair values related to certain of our operations. These items had a negative impact of $0.68 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   •   The recognition of pre-tax restructuring charges of $82 million, which had a negative impact of $0.11 on our diluted earnings per share.  

The following explanation of certain items that impacted the comparability of our 2013 results with 2012 has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2013 results were affected by the following:  

   •    The recognition of net pre-tax charges aggregating $1.0 billion, primarily related to (i) a $483 million charge to impair goodwill associated with our Wheelabrator business; (ii) $262 million of charges to  

33  

Table of Contents 

     impair certain landfills, primarily in our Eastern Canada Area; (iii) $144 million of charges to write down the carrying value of three waste-to-energy facilities and (iv) $71 million of impairment charges relating to investments in waste diversion technology companies. These items had a negative impact of $1.91 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   •   The recognition of pre-tax charges aggregating $23 million primarily related to our acquisitions of Greenstar and RCI as well as our 2012 restructuring and other charges. These items had a negative impact of $0.03 on our diluted earnings per share.  

Our 2012 results were affected by the following:  

   •   The recognition of pre-tax impairment charges aggregating $109 million attributable primarily to facilities in our medical waste services business and investments in waste diversion technologies. These items had a negative impact of $0.17 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   •   The recognition of pre-tax costs aggregating $82 million primarily related to our July 2012 restructuring as well as integration costs associated with our acquisition of Oakleaf. These items had a negative impact of $0.11 on our diluted earnings per share;  

The recognition of a pre-tax charge of $10 million related to the withdrawal from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan and a pre-tax charge of $6 million resulting from a labor union dispute. These items had a negative impact of $0.02 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   •   The recognition of pre-tax charges aggregating $10 million related to an accrual for legal reserves and the impact of a decrease in the risk-free discount rate used to measure our environmental remediation liabilities. These items had a negative impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share.  

We began the year with a focus on growing earnings and free cash flow, increasing yield and exercising discipline around capital spending and costs, and the Company’s execution on these goals translated into strong overall operating results in 2014. Additionally, we increased the amount we returned to stockholders in 2014 compared to 2013 by increasing our dividend and share repurchases. Our fourth quarter results capitalized on the momentum we built throughout the year, delivering growth in income from operations and income from operations margin in our Solid Waste business that we expect to continue into 2015. During the fourth quarter, we also completed our previously announced divestiture of our Wheelabrator business for cash proceeds of $1.95 billion, net of cash divested, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We intend to use these proceeds in support of our strategic growth plans to drive long-term stockholder value, with our priority being on making accretive acquisitions in our Solid Waste business. We also expect our focus on our five key priorities set forth above — Customers; Traditional Waste Business; Growth; Yield Management and Costs – to translate into continued strong free cash flow to pay our dividends, repurchase shares and make other growth investments, while continuing our commitment to maintain a strong balance sheet.  

Free Cash Flow  

As is our practice, we are presenting free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity, in our disclosures because we use this measure in the evaluation and management of our business. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures, plus proceeds from divestitures of businesses (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets. We believe it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. Free cash flow is not intended to replace “Net cash provided by operating activities,” which is the most comparable GAAP measure. However, we believe free cash flow gives investors useful insight into how we view our liquidity. Nevertheless, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt service requirements.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Our calculation of free cash flow and reconciliation to “Net cash provided by operating activities” is shown in the table below (in millions), and may not be calculated the same as similarly-titled measures presented by other companies:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 to the comparable period in 2013, the decrease of $124 million is primarily related to higher income tax payments of $247 million in the current year and a payment of $36 million made in the first quarter of 2014 to terminate our forward starting swaps. These decreases were partially offset by higher cash earnings and favorable working capital changes.  

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 to the comparable period in 2012, the increase of $160 million was primarily related to the impact of higher cash earnings, favorable impacts of working capital changes and the payment of $59 million to settle the liabilities associated with the termination of our forward starting swaps in September 2012. The increase was partially offset by an increase in tax payments of $145 million and the favorable cash receipt of $72 million resulting from the termination of interest rate swaps in April 2012.  

The decrease in capital expenditures when comparing the year ended December 31, 2014 to the comparable period in 2013 and comparing the year ended December 31, 2013 to the comparable period in 2012 can generally be attributed to increased focus on capital spending management.  

The increase in proceeds from divestitures of businesses and other assets (net of cash divested) for the year ended December 31, 2014 from the comparable period in 2013 is largely driven by (i) the sale of our Wheelabrator business in the fourth quarter of 2014 for $1.95 billion; (ii) the sale of our investment in Shanghai Environment Group (“SEG”), which was part of our Wheelabrator business, in the first quarter of 2014 for $155 million; (iii) the sale of our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets in the second quarter of 2014, for proceeds of $80 million, including $65 million in cash; (iv) the sale of certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area in the third quarter of 2014 for $39 million and (v) the sale of a vacant facility in the second quarter of 2014 for $19 million.  

Pending Acquisition  

On September 17, 2014, the Company signed a definitive agreement to acquire the outstanding stock of Deffenbaugh Disposal, Inc., one of the largest privately owned collection and disposal firms in the Midwest. Closing of the acquisition is expected to occur in early 2015, subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions.  

Acquisitions  

Greenstar, LLC — On January 31, 2013, we paid $170 million inclusive of certain adjustments, to acquire Greenstar, LLC (“Greenstar”). Pursuant to the sale and purchase agreement, up to an additional $40 million is payable to the sellers during the period from 2014 to 2018, of which $20 million is guaranteed. The remaining $20 million of this consideration is contingent based on changes in certain recyclable commodity indexes and  

35  

Table of Contents 

 had an estimated fair value at closing of $16 million. Greenstar was an operator of recycling and resource recovery facilities. This acquisition provides the Company’s customers with greater access to recycling solutions, having supplemented our extensive nationwide recycling network with the operations of one of the nation’s largest private recyclers.  

RCI Environnement, Inc. — On July 5, 2013, we paid C$509 million, or $481 million, to acquire substantially all of the assets of RCI Environnement, Inc. (“RCI”), the largest waste management company in Quebec, and certain related entities. Total consideration, inclusive of amounts for estimated working capital, was C$515 million, or $487 million. RCI provides collection, transfer, recycling and disposal operations throughout the Greater Montreal area. The acquired RCI operations complement and expand the Company’s existing assets and operations in Quebec.  

Divestitures  

Divestiture of Wheelabrator Business  

On December 19, 2014, we sold our Wheelabrator business to an affiliate of Energy Capital Partners and received cash proceeds of $1.95 billion, net of cash divested, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We recognized a gain of $519 million on this sale which is included within “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments (other than goodwill) and unusual items” in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. In conjunction with the sale, the Company entered into several agreements to dispose of a minimum number of tons of waste at certain Wheelabrator facilities. These agreements generally provide for fixed volume commitments, with certain market price resets, for up to seven years.  

Wheelabrator provides waste-to-energy services and manages waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production plants. Wheelabrator owns or operates 16 waste-to-energy facilities and four independent power production plants. Prior to the sale, our Wheelabrator business constituted a reportable segment for the Company, as discussed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We concluded that the sale of our Wheelabrator business did not qualify for discontinued operations accounting under current authoritative guidance based on our significant continuing obligations under the long-term waste supply agreements referred to above and in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Other Divestitures  

In the second quarter of 2014, we sold our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets which were included in Tier 3 and Tier 1, respectively, of our Solid Waste business. We received proceeds from the sale of $80 million, consisting of $65 million of cash and $15 million of preferred stock and recognized a loss on the sale of $25 million.  

In the third quarter of 2014, we sold certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area, which were included in Tier 3. We received cash proceeds from the sale of $39 million and recognized a gain of $18 million.  

The gain or loss on these divestitures is included within “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments (other than goodwill) and unusual items” in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The remaining proceeds from divestitures in 2014 were comprised substantially of cash. Additional information on our reportable segments can be found in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial Information  

Comprehensive Income — In February 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued amended authoritative guidance associated with comprehensive income, which requires companies to provide  

36  

Table of Contents 

 information about the amounts that are reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component. Additionally, companies are required to present significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income. The amendment to authoritative guidance associated with comprehensive income was effective for the Company on January 1, 2013. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We have presented the information required by this amendment in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Impairment Testing — In July 2012, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment testing. The amended guidance provides companies the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the entity is not required to take further action. The amendments were effective for indefinite-lived intangible impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012; however, early adoption was permitted. The Company’s early adoption of this guidance in 2012 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. Additional information on impairment testing can be found in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions  

In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with precision from available data or simply cannot be calculated. In some cases, these estimates are difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that present the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments, deferred income taxes and reserves associated with our insured and self-insured claims. Each of these items is discussed in additional detail below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements.  

Landfills  

Accounting for landfills requires that significant estimates and assumptions be made regarding (i) the cost to construct and develop each landfill asset; (ii) the estimated fair value of final capping, closure and post-closure asset retirement obligations, which must consider both the expected cost and timing of these activities; (iii) the determination of each landfill’s remaining permitted and expansion airspace and (iv) the airspace associated with each final capping event.  

Landfill Costs — We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs.  

Final Capping Costs — We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate landfill final  

37  

Table of Contents 

 capping costs to specific final capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post-closure monitoring and maintenance. The estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also consider when the costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post-closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Remaining Permitted Airspace — Our engineers, in consultation with third-party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography.  

Expansion Airspace — We also include currently unpermitted expansion airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe that obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria:  

   •   Personnel are actively working on the expansion of an existing landfill, including efforts to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals;  

   •   It is likely that the approvals will be received within the normal application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill is located;  

   •   We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;  

   •   There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could negatively affect the success of such expansion; and  

   •   Financial analysis has been completed based on conceptual design, and the results demonstrate that the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact.  

For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if certain of these criteria are no longer met as long as we continue to believe we will ultimately obtain the permit, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill-specific review process that includes approval by our Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 23 landfill sites with expansions included at December 31, 2014, five landfills required the  

38  

Table of Contents 

 Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Two of these landfills required approval by our Chief Financial Officer because of community or political opposition that could impede the expansion process. The remaining three landfills required approval due to local zoning restrictions or because the permit application processes do not meet the one- or five-year requirements.  

When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement costs related to final capping, closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill.  

Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined in cubic yards, an airspace utilization factor (“AUF”) is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and is then adjusted to account for future settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site-specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate, and operating practices. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi-level review by our engineering group, and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements.  

After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed as waste is received and deposited at the landfill by dividing the costs by the corresponding number of tons. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change.  

It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post-closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if it is determined that expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of a landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment or incur significantly higher amortization expense. If at any time management makes the decision to abandon the expansion effort, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately.  

Environmental Remediation Liabilities  

We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party (“PRP”) investigations, settlements, and certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials, external contractor costs and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on a number of estimates and assumptions.  

Where it is probable that a liability has been incurred, we estimate costs required to remediate sites based on site-specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation,  

39  

Table of Contents 

 considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the costs for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third-party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:  

   •   Management’s judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties’ sites;  

   •   Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation;  

   •   The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and  

   •   The typical allocation of costs among PRPs, unless the actual allocation has been determined.  

Asset Impairments  

Our long-lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. We monitor the carrying value of our long-lived assets for potential impairment on an ongoing basis and test the recoverability of such assets using significant unobservable (“Level 3”) inputs whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or changes in circumstances, including management decisions pertaining to such assets, are referred to as impairment indicators. If an impairment indicator occurs, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group; (ii) actual third-party valuations and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market for similar assets. If the fair value of an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs and is included in the “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments (other than goodwill) and unusual items” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment and projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized, which could impact our ability to accurately assess whether an asset has been impaired.  

There are additional considerations for impairments of landfills, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, as described below.  

Landfills — The assessment of impairment indicators and the recoverability of our capitalized costs associated with landfills and related expansion projects require significant judgment due to the unique nature of the waste industry, the highly regulated permitting process and the sensitive estimates involved. During the review of a landfill expansion application, a regulator may initially deny the expansion application although the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace, or a landfill may be required to cease accepting waste, prior to receipt of the expansion permit. However, such events occur in the ordinary course of business in the waste industry and do not necessarily result in impairment of our landfill assets because, after consideration of all facts, such events may not affect our belief that we will ultimately obtain the expansion permit. As a result, our tests of recoverability, which generally make use of a probability-weighted cash flow estimation approach, may indicate that no impairment loss should be recorded. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions — Expansion Airspace above for discussion of criteria involved in assessing our likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit.  

40  

Table of Contents 

 At December 31, 2014, one of our landfill sites for which we believe receipt of the expansion permit is probable, is not currently accepting waste. The net recorded capitalized landfill asset cost for this site was $247 million at December 31, 2014. We performed a test of recoverability for this landfill and the undiscounted cash flows resulting from our probability-weighted estimation approach significantly exceeded the carrying value of this site. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $262 million of charges to impair certain of our landfills, primarily as a result of our consideration of management’s decision in the fourth quarter of 2013 not to actively pursue expansion and/or development of such landfills. These charges were primarily associated with two landfills in our Eastern Canada Area, which are no longer accepting waste. We had previously concluded that receipt of permits for these landfills was probable. However, in connection with our asset rationalization and capital allocation analysis, which was influenced, in part, by our acquisition of RCI, we determined that the future costs to construct these landfills could be avoided as we are able to allocate disposal that would have gone to these landfills to other facilities and not materially impact operations. As a result of management’s decision, we determined that the carrying values of landfill assets were no longer able to be recovered by the undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. As such, we wrote their carrying values down to their estimated fair values using a market approach considering the highest and best use of the assets.  

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to landfill asset impairments recognized during the reported periods.  

Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess our goodwill for impairment using Level 3 inputs.  

We assess whether a goodwill impairment exists using both qualitative and quantitative assessments. Our qualitative assessment involves determining whether events or circumstances exist that indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If based on this qualitative assessment we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we will not perform a quantitative assessment.  

If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to perform a qualitative assessment, we perform a quantitative assessment, or two-step impairment test, to determine whether a goodwill impairment exists at the reporting unit. The first step in our quantitative assessment identifies potential impairments by comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. Fair value is typically estimated using a combination of the income approach and market approach or only an income approach when applicable. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows of the reporting units. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted-average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting units’ expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business. The market approach estimates fair value by measuring the aggregate market value of publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics to our business as a multiple of their reported cash flows. We then apply that multiple to the reporting units’ cash flows to estimate their fair values. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using valuation inputs from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our reporting units.  

Fair value computed by these two methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that these two methods provide a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of our reporting units.  

41  

Table of Contents 

During our annual 2013 impairment test of our goodwill balances we determined the fair value of our Wheelabrator business had declined and the associated goodwill was impaired. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of $483 million, which had no related tax benefit. We estimated the implied fair value of our Wheelabrator reporting unit goodwill using a combination of income and market approaches. Because the annual impairment test indicated that Wheelabrator’s carrying value exceeded its estimated fair value, we performed the “step two” analysis. In the “step two” analysis, the fair values of all assets and liabilities were estimated, including tangible assets, power contracts, customer relationships and trade name for the purpose of deriving an estimate of the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill was then compared to the carrying amount of goodwill to determine the amount of the impairment. The factors contributing to the $483 million goodwill impairment charge principally related to the continued challenging business environment in areas of the country in which Wheelabrator operated, characterized by lower available disposal volumes (which impact disposal rates and overall disposal revenue, as well as the amount of electricity Wheelabrator was able to generate), lower electricity pricing due to the pricing pressure created by availability of natural gas and increased operating costs as Wheelabrator’s facilities aged. These factors caused us to lower prior assumptions for electricity and disposal revenue, and increase assumed operating costs. Additionally, the discount factor previously utilized in the income approach in 2013 increased mainly due to increases in interest rates. In 2013, we incurred an additional $10 million of charges to impair goodwill associated with our Puerto Rico operations and $4 million to impair goodwill associated with our recycling business. In 2014, we recognized $10 million of goodwill impairment charges associated with our recycling operations.  

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Goodwill Impairments and Notes 6 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to goodwill impairments recognized during the reported periods.  

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Other Than Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill for impairment.  

When performing the impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we generally first conduct a qualitative analysis to determine whether we believe it is more likely than not that an asset has been impaired. If we believe an impairment has occurred, we then evaluate for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of assets to the carrying value. An impairment charge is recognized if the asset’s estimated fair value is less than its carrying value.  

Fair value is typically estimated using an income approach. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted-average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business.  

Fair value computed by this method is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that this method provides a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of the reporting units.  

Deferred Income Taxes  

Deferred income taxes are based on the difference between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred income tax provision represents the change during the reporting period in the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, net of the effect of acquisitions and dispositions. Deferred tax assets include tax loss and credit carry-forwards and are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  

42  

Table of Contents 

 Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We establish reserves for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions may be challenged and potentially disallowed. When facts and circumstances change, we adjust these reserves through our provision for income taxes. To the extent interest and penalties may be assessed by taxing authorities on any underpayment of income tax, such amounts have been accrued and are classified as a component of income tax expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.  

Insured and Self-Insured Claims  

We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation insurance programs. The exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, are based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from our assumptions used. Estimated recoveries associated with our insured claims are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable.  

Results of Operations  

Operating Revenues  

Our operating revenues set forth below have generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and waste-to-energy services and from sales of commodities by our recycling, waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy operations. Revenues from our collection operations are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility or MRF and our disposal costs. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue generally consists of tipping fees and the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The fees we charge for our collection, disposal, transfer and recycling services generally include fuel surcharges, which are indexed to current market costs for diesel fuel. Our recently divested Wheelabrator business provided waste-to-energy services and managed waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production plants. We also provide additional services that are not managed through our Solid Waste or Wheelabrator businesses, including Strategic Business Solutions (“WMSBS”), Energy and Environmental Services, recycling brokerage and electronic recycling services, landfill gas-to-energy services, and expanded service offerings and solutions. We also offer portable self-storage services through a joint venture; fluorescent bulb and universal waste mail-back through our LampTracker® program; portable restroom servicing under the name Port-o-Let® and street and parking lot sweeping services. In addition, we hold interests in oil and gas producing properties. These operations are presented as “Other” in the table below. The following table summarizes revenues during each period (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

43  

Table of Contents 

The mix of operating revenues from our major lines of business is reflected in the table below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues (dollars in millions) along with an explanation of the significant components of the current period changes:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Calculated by dividing the amount of current year increase or decrease by the prior year’s total company revenue adjusted to exclude the impacts of current year divestitures ($13,893 million and $13,643 million for 2014 and 2013, respectively).  

 (b)  The amounts reported herein represent the changes in our revenue attributable to average yield for the total Company. We also analyze the changes in average yield in terms of related-business revenues in order to differentiate the changes in yield attributable to our pricing strategies from the changes that are caused by  

44  

Table of Contents 

    market-driven price changes in commodities. The following table summarizes changes in revenues from average yield on a related-business basis (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (i) Calculated by dividing the increase or decrease for the current year by the prior year’s related business revenue, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year. The table below summarizes the related business revenues for each year, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (ii) Average revenue growth for yield for “Collection and disposal” excludes all electricity-related revenues generated by our Wheelabrator business and our landfill gas-to-energy operations, which are reported as “Electricity” revenues.  

Our revenues increased $13 million, or 0.1%, for the year ended December 31, 2014. Our revenue fluctuation in the current period has been driven by (i) revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal operations; (ii) revenue from acquired operations, particularly the RCI operations acquired in July 2013, which contributed approximately $77 million to the revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2014; and (iii) fluctuations in electricity prices at Wheelabrator’s merchant waste-to-energy facilities that favorably affected revenues. Offsetting these revenue increases were (i) revenue declines due to lower volumes; (ii) divestitures, primarily our Puerto Rico divestiture in the second quarter of 2014, certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area in the third quarter of 2014, and our Wheelabrator business in December 2014; (iii) foreign currency translation, which affects revenues from our Canadian operations; and (iv) revenue declines resulting from lower recyclable commodity prices.  

Our revenues increased $334 million, or 2.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2013. Our revenue fluctuation in the prior period was driven by (i) revenue from acquired operations, particularly Greenstar acquired in January 2013 and RCI, which increased revenues by $138 million and $80 million, respectively; (ii) increased revenue growth from our collection and disposal average yield; (iii) higher revenues provided by  

45  

Table of Contents 

 our fuel surcharge program; and (iv) fluctuations in electricity prices at our merchant waste-to-energy facilities. Offsetting these revenue increases were (i) revenue declines resulting from lower recyclable commodity prices; (ii) foreign currency translation, which negatively affected revenues from our Canadian operations; and (iii) revenue declines due to lower volumes.  

The following provides further details associated with our period-to-period change in revenues.  

Average yield  

Collection and disposal average yield — This measure reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer, landfill and waste-to-energy disposal operations, exclusive of volume changes. Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield includes not only base rate changes and environmental and service fee increases, but also (i) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to both the types of services provided and the geographic locations where our services are provided; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business and (iii) price decreases to retain customers.  

Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield was $262 million, or 2.3%, and $235 million, or 2.1%, for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  

We experienced growth in all three of our principal collection lines of business in both 2014 and 2013. The details are as follows (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our year-over-year yield growth in both 2014 and 2013 was driven largely by our pricing strategy that combines focused effort on price increases with lower rollbacks. Conversely, our revenue growth due to volume has been negatively affected by our pricing strategy, with more significant volume declines during 2014. However, our pricing strategy and our focus on controlling variable costs have consistently provided margin improvements in our collection line of business, although we have seen margin deterioration in our residential line of business throughout 2014. Other drivers affecting the current period average yield include:  

   •   A fee instituted in April 2013 to help us recover a portion of the significant regulatory costs and fees, such as host fees and disposal taxes, which have not been recouped by our pricing programs. Revenues generated from this fee are approximately $97 million and $43 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, principally in our collection business, with the most significant impact in our commercial line of business.  

   •   Revenue growth from yield in our industrial line of business was aided by our Energy Services business, which typically has higher average rates due to extended transportation distances, special waste handling costs and higher disposal costs as compared with our typical industrial business.  

   •   Our focus on bidding on residential contracts to improve our yield performance and increase our overall returns. Our effort to increase yield in our residential line of business is a challenge principally due to a very competitive environment. A high percentage of our residential business is in municipal franchise markets, and many municipalities are facing significant budget challenges, which results in increased competition on the basis of price as we rebid contracts and try to win new contracts.  

46  

Table of Contents 

   •   Yield growth from our landfill and transfer station operations also improved slightly for both 2014 and 2013.  

Recycling commodities — Decreases in the prices of the recycling commodities we sell resulted in revenue declines of $53 million and $79 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, compared with the same prior year period.  

Fuel surcharges and mandated fees — These revenues, which are predominantly generated by our fuel surcharge program, decreased $2 million and increased $32 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These revenues fluctuate in response to changes in the national average prices for diesel fuel on which our surcharge is based. We experienced a fuel price decline of approximately 2.4% in 2014, which caused a slight decrease in our fuel surcharge revenues. These revenues increased in 2013 resulting from a revision of the surcharge calculation implemented to better capture price increases intended to be recovered by the surcharge. The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to pass-through fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal government agencies at our landfills and transfer stations.  

Volume — Declines in our volume caused our revenue to decrease $188 million, or 1.4%, and $133 million, or 1.0%, for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, as compared with prior year periods, driven primarily by declines in our collection business. Our volume fluctuations are generally attributable to economic conditions, pricing changes, competition and diversion of waste by customers. Our revenue growth due to volume has been negatively affected by our pricing strategy. We are experiencing volume declines due to the loss of low margin customers that we are not willing to keep at current rates. Additionally, we are experiencing losses of certain municipal contracts that are up for bid. As a result of both the very competitive environment and our focus on reasonable returns, we continue to face challenges to keep existing contracts and to win new contracts. Finally, we experienced revenue declines associated with the loss of certain large accounts in our WMSBS organization.  

Other drivers affecting the comparability of volumes for the periods presented include:  

   •   We experienced revenue declines due to lower volumes in our material recovery facilities in 2014 primarily driven by the rationalization of our underperforming assets. Revenue increased due to higher volumes in 2013 driven by additional recycling capacity that we added in 2012.  

   •   We experienced revenue declines of approximately $23 million associated with the severe winter weather conditions in the first quarter of 2014.  

   •   We experienced higher landfill volumes in both comparable periods primarily driven by our municipal solid waste business. In addition, higher special waste volumes in the Southern U.S. also contributed to our higher landfill volumes in 2014.  

   •   We experienced revenue increases due to higher volumes in our ancillary services, primarily driven by increases in our Energy and Environmental Services, our WM Renewable Energy Program and our portable self-storage services in 2014.  

Acquisitions and Divestitures — Revenues increased $124 million and $292 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, due to acquisitions. The revenue increase due to acquisitions in both 2014 and 2013 was principally associated with the RCI operations acquired in July 2013. To a lesser extent, 2013 revenues increased due to the acquisition of Greenstar in January of that year, which is reported in our “Recycling” line of business.  

These revenues were offset partially by revenue decreases of $90 million and $6 million due to divestitures for the years ended 2014 and 2013, respectively. The revenue decrease in 2014 is primarily due to (i) our divestiture of our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets in the second quarter of 2014; (ii) the divestiture of certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area in the third quarter of 2014; and (iii) the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Operating Expenses  

Our operating expenses are comprised of (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs discussed below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are affected by variables such as volumes, distance and fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees, contingent landfill lease payments and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include interest accretion on landfill liabilities, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs and other landfill site costs; (ix) risk management costs, which include auto liability, workers’ compensation, general liability and insurance and claim costs and (x) other operating costs, which include telecommunications, equipment and facility rent, property taxes, utilities and supplies.  

Our operating expenses decreased $110 million, or 1.2%, when comparing 2014 with 2013 and increased $233 million, or 2.6%, when comparing 2013 with 2012. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 64.3% in 2014, 65.2% in 2013, and 65.1% in 2012.  

Divestitures — During 2014, we divested our Wheelabrator business in the fourth quarter, our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets in the second quarter, and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area in the third quarter. As mentioned above, we estimate that divestitures reduced our annual revenues by $90 million. Commensurately, we estimate our operating expenses decreased by approximately $56 million due to divestitures when compared to the prior year period. The decreases in costs were primarily in (i) labor and related benefits and (ii) maintenance and repairs.  

The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions), with significant changes in our operating expenses discussed below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Labor and related benefits — The following significant items affected the comparability of expenses for the periods presented.  

48  

Table of Contents 

The decrease in labor and related benefits in 2014 as compared with 2013 was due to:  

   •   Lower headcount and contract labor due to lower volumes in our collection line of business and operating efficiencies in our recycling line of business;  

   •   Lower costs resulting from recent divestitures, particularly the divestiture of our Puerto Rico operations, offset in part by;  

   •   Higher wages due to merit increases effective in the second quarter of 2013 and 2014; and  

   •   Increased health and welfare costs.  

The increase in labor and related benefits in 2013 as compared with 2012 was due to:  

   •   Higher wages due to merit increases effective in the second quarter of 2013;  

   •   Higher incentive compensation expense in 2013;  

   •   Higher contract labor principally attributed to the recycling line of business;  

   •   Recent acquisitions, principally the Greenstar acquisition, offset in part by; and  

   •   Lower headcount resulting principally from the flexing of our costs in response to lower collection volumes.  

Maintenance and repairs — The increase in 2013 compared to 2012 was driven by (i) the Greenstar acquisition and (ii) higher internal shop labor costs due in part to higher incentive compensation and merit increases. 

Subcontractor costs — The increase in 2014 was driven by (i) remediation services within our Energy and Environmental Services business and (ii) the RCI operations acquired in July 2013; offset in part by the volume decline related to the loss of certain large accounts in our WMSBS organization. The decrease in 2013 was driven primarily by the volume decline associated with the loss of certain large accounts in our WMSBS organization. These decreases were offset, in part, by higher costs associated with the acquired RCI operations.  

Cost of goods sold — The decrease in cost of goods sold in 2014 is due to (i) increased efforts to reduce controllable recycling rebates paid to customers; (ii) better alignment of rebate structures to commodity prices for new recycling contracts; (iii) ongoing recycling business improvement efforts around inbound quality control and (iv) lower commodity prices. These cost decreases were offset in part by our business in portable self-storage services and remediation services. The increase in cost of goods sold in 2013 is due in large part to higher customer rebates resulting from higher volumes in our recycling commodity business driven primarily by the acquired Greenstar operations.  

Fuel — The decrease in fuel expense in both 2014 and 2013 when compared to the prior year periods was driven by (i) lower fuel purchases due to reduced collection volumes; (ii) lower costs resulting from the conversion of our fleet to CNG vehicles; (iii) lower fuel prices and (iv) retroactive CNG fuel excise credits.  

Disposal and franchise fees and taxes— The increase in costs in both 2014 and 2013 can be attributable to (i) higher disposal fees and taxes due to higher landfill volumes and (ii) higher municipal franchise fees relating to the collection line of business. A disposal surcharge at one of our waste-to-energy facilities in 2013 affected the comparability in both periods.  

Landfill operating costs — Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include (i) unfavorable adjustments in 2014 and 2012 as well as favorable adjustments in 2013 related to changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to discount the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery rates and (ii) higher leachate costs for all comparable periods.  

49  

Table of Contents 

Risk management — The decrease in costs in 2014 was primarily due to lower auto and general liability claims and, to a lesser extent, decreased workers’ compensation, claims and lower truck insurance expenses. The increase in costs in 2013 was driven principally by higher workers’ compensation claims.  

Other — The decrease in 2014 is primarily due to the gain on the sale of a vacant facility and lower rental costs. The increased costs in 2013 when compared to 2012 were due in part to (i) higher telecommunications costs driven by our initiative to equip our fleet with onboard computers; (ii) higher utilities; (iii) higher property taxes and (iv) lower gains on the sale of assets. These increases were offset, in part, by favorable adjustments to contingent consideration associated with acquisitions. 

Selling, General and Administrative  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor and related benefit costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity-based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees and (iv) other selling, general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility-related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our “Other” selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $13 million, or 0.9%, and decreased by $4 million, or 0.3%, when comparing 2014 with 2013 and 2013 with 2012, respectively. Our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 10.6% in 2014, 10.5% in 2013 and 10.8% in 2012.  

The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Labor and related benefits — Factors affecting the year-over-year changes in our labor and related benefits costs include:  

   •   Merit increases;  

   •   Higher incentive compensation cost, particularly in 2013, as compared with the prior year periods, including bonuses and equity-based compensation;  

   •   Higher health and welfare costs in 2014 as compared to 2013; and  

   •   Year-over-year labor and related benefits cost savings of approximately $40 million in 2014 and $45 million in 2013 from restructuring plans implemented in 2014 and 2012.  

Professional fees — Our professional fees continued to decline during 2014 as a result of our concerted effort to reduce consulting fees. Our 2013 consulting fees were lower as we incurred significant fees during 2012 resulting from company-wide initiatives. The lower consulting fees were partially offset by higher legal fees in 2014 as compared to 2013.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Provision for bad debts — Our provision for bad debts decreased in 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily as a result of (i) the collection of certain fully reserved receivables related to our Puerto Rico operations and (ii) resolution of billing delay issues experienced during 2012 in our WMSBS organization.  

Other — In 2014, increased costs resulting principally from litigation settlements were partially offset by a decline in controllable costs associated with advertising and travel and entertainment costs. In 2013, controllable costs associated with (i) building and equipment; (ii) advertising; (iii) computer and telecommunication; (iv) travel and entertainment and (v) seminars and education declined primarily as a result of our July 2012 restructuring and focus on cost-control initiatives.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded for capital leases, on a straight-line basis from three to 50 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction and asset retirement costs arising from closure and post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the total estimated remaining capacity of a site, which includes both permitted capacity and expansion capacity that meets our Company-specific criteria for amortization purposes; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units-of-consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, using either a 150% declining balance approach or a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are generally from two to 15 years depending on the type of asset.  

The following table summarizes the components of our depreciation and amortization expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense during 2014 is primarily attributable to favorable adjustments resulting from changes in landfill estimates and fixed asset depreciation that was suspended when our Wheelabrator business was classified as held-for-sale in the third quarter of 2014 and subsequently sold in December 2014. The increase in amortization of intangible assets in 2013 that continued in 2014 is primarily related to the amortization of customer relationships acquired through our acquisition of RCI.  

Restructuring  

In August 2014, we announced a consolidation and realignment of several Corporate functions to better support achievement of the Company’s strategic goals, including cost reduction. Voluntary separation arrangements were offered to all salaried employees within these organizations. Approximately 650 employees have separated from our Corporate and recycling organizations in connection with this restructuring, but we do not anticipate that all of these positions will be permanently eliminated.  

During the year ended December 31, 2014 we recognized a total of $82 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $70 million was related to employee severance and benefit costs. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized. We do not expect to incur any material charges associated with our 2014 restructuring in future periods.  

51  

Table of Contents 

During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized a total of $18 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $7 million was related to employee severance and benefit costs, including costs associated with our acquisitions of Greenstar and RCI and our 2012 restructurings. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

In July 2012, we announced a reorganization of operations, designed to streamline management and staff support and reduce our cost structure, while not disrupting our front-line operations. Principal organizational changes included removing the management layer of our four geographic Groups, each of which previously constituted a reportable segment, and consolidating and reducing the number of our geographic Areas through which we evaluate and oversee our Solid Waste subsidiaries from 22 to 17. This reorganization eliminated approximately 700 employee positions throughout the Company, including positions at both the management and support level. Voluntary separation arrangements were offered to many employees.  

During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized a total of $67 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $56 million were primarily related to employee severance and benefit costs associated with these reorganizations. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

Goodwill Impairments  

During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized $10 million of goodwill impairment charges associated with our recycling operations. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $509 million of goodwill impairment charges, primarily related to (i) $483 million associated with our Wheelabrator business; (ii) $10 million associated with our Puerto Rico operations and (iii) $9 million associated with a majority-owned waste diversion technology company. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $4 million related to certain of our non-Solid Waste operations. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Estimates and Assumptions — Asset Impairments and Notes 3 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these impairment charges as well as the accounting policy and analysis involved in identifying and calculating impairments.  

(Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items  

The following table summarizes the major components of “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized net income of $170 million, primarily related to the following:  

   •   (Income) expense from divestitures — We recognized net gains of $515 million, primarily as a result of a $519 million gain on the sale of our Wheelabrator business and an $18 million gain on the sale of certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area. Partially offsetting these gains was a $25 million loss on the divestiture of our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets. Refer to Note 19 for additional information related to our divestitures.  

   •    Oil and gas properties impairments — We recognized $272 million of charges to impair certain of our oil and gas producing properties, primarily as a result of the pronounced decrease in oil and gas prices  

52  

Table of Contents 

     in the fourth quarter of 2014. We wrote down the carrying value of these properties to their estimated fair value using an income approach.  

   •   Other impairments — We recognized additional impairment charges of $73 million to write down assets in our waste diversion technology, renewable energy, recycling and medical waste operations.  

During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized net charges of $464 million, primarily related to the following:  

   •   Landfill impairments — We recognized $262 million of charges to impair certain of our landfills, primarily as a result of our consideration of management’s decision in the fourth quarter of 2013 not to actively pursue expansion and/or development of such landfills. These charges were primarily associated with two landfills in our Eastern Canada Area, which are no longer accepting waste. We had previously concluded that receipt of permits for these landfills was probable. However, in connection with our asset rationalization and capital allocation analysis, which was influenced, in part, by our acquisition of RCI, we determined that the future costs to construct these landfills could be avoided as we are able to allocate disposal that would have gone to these landfills to other facilities and not materially impact operations. As a result of management’s decision, we determined that the landfill assets were no longer able to be recovered by the undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. As such, we wrote them down to their estimated fair values using a market approach considering the highest and best use of the assets.  

   •   Waste-to-energy impairments — We recognized $144 million of impairment charges relating to three waste-to-energy facilities, primarily as a result of closure or anticipated closure due to continued difficulty securing sufficient volumes to operate the plants at capacity and the prospect of additional capacity entering the market where the largest facility is located. We wrote down the carrying value of our facilities to their estimated fair value using a market approach.  

   •   Other impairments — The remainder of our 2013 charges were attributable to (i) $31 million of charges to impair various recycling assets; (ii) $20 million of charges to write down assets related to a majority-owned waste diversion technology company and (iii) a $15 million charge to write down the carrying value of an oil and gas property to its estimated fair value.  

   •   Divestitures — Partially offsetting these charges were $8 million of net gains on divestitures.  

During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized impairment charges of $79 million, attributable to (i) $45 million of charges related to three facilities in our medical waste services business as a result of projected operating losses at each of these facilities; (ii) $20 million of charges related to investments in waste diversion technology companies and (iii) other charges to write down the carrying value of assets to their estimated fair values, all of which are individually immaterial.  

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions — Asset Impairments for additional information related to the accounting policy and analysis involved in identifying and calculating impairments.  

In addition to the impairments discussed above, we are continuing to evaluate opportunities associated with the sale or discontinued use of assets that may no longer meet our strategic objectives or are underperforming. Accordingly, it is possible that additional charges may be recorded as assets are sold or become held-for-sale.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Income from Operations  

The following table summarizes income from operations for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison.  

Items affecting the comparability of our results of operations include (i) charges associated with our August 2014 and July 2012 restructurings; (ii) subsequent benefits realized as a result of these restructurings and ongoing cost containment efforts; (iii) increased labor costs due to merit increases effective in 2014 and 2013 and (iv) lower 2012 year-over-year incentive compensation costs.  

Solid Waste — The comparability of our income from operations for the periods presented is driven by $279 million of net charges primarily related to impairments recognized in 2013. The most significant impairment charges were in our Eastern Canada Area, which is included in Tier 3, and were associated with the impairment of certain landfills as discussed above in (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items. Other significant items affecting the results of operations of our Solid Waste business during the three years ended December 31, 2014 are summarized below:  

   •   Our base business benefited from (i) internal revenue growth, principally in our collection and disposal business; (ii) increased fuel cost recovery and (iii) decreased fuel costs. These favorable variances were offset, in part, by net cost increases driven by higher operating expenses in 2013;  

   •   Results from our recycling business contributed favorably in 2014 when compared to the prior period principally due to (i) increased efforts to reduce controllable recycling rebates paid to customers; (ii) better alignment of rebate structures to commodity prices for new recycling contracts and (iii) ongoing business improvement efforts around inbound quality control. These favorable variances more than offset lower market prices for recyclable commodities and lower volumes. Results from our recycling business contributed unfavorably in 2013 when compared to the prior period primarily due to (i) lower prices for commodities; (ii) higher processing costs driven in part by increased outbound quality control in 2013 and (iii) operating losses related to the operations of Greenstar acquired in 2013.  

In addition, the following items affected comparability of 2014 to 2013 within specific segments:  

   •   The loss on the sale of our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets in 2014, which were included in Tier 3 and Tier 1, respectively;  

   •   Adverse weather in the first quarter of 2014 unfavorably affected income from operations primarily in Tier 2;  

   •   The gain on the sale of certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area in 2014, which were included in Tier 3;  

   •   The accretive benefits of the RCI operations acquired in July 2013, which are included in Tier 3;  

54  

Table of Contents 

   •   The gain on the sale of a vacant facility in 2014, which was included in Tier 3; and  

   •   A reversal of a reserve in 2014 due to a favorable litigation resolution, which was included in Tier 1.  

In addition, the following items affected comparability of 2013 to 2012 within specific segments:  

   •   A decrease in bad debt expense during 2013 due primarily to the collection of receivables previously reserved during 2012, principally in Puerto Rico, which was included in Tier 3;  

   •   The accretive benefits of the RCI operations acquired, as discussed above;  

   •   A charge for the withdrawal from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan in New England in 2012, which is included in Tier 2; and  

   •   Incremental operating expenses due to a labor union dispute in the Pacific Northwest Area in 2012, which is included in Tier 3.  

Wheelabrator — The most significant items affecting the results of operations of our Wheelabrator business in 2014 and 2013 were (i) a $519 million gain on sale of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014 and (ii) $627 million of pre-tax charges to impair goodwill and certain waste-to-energy facilities in 2013 as discussed above in Goodwill Impairments and (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items. Other items contributing to the variability included (i) higher year-over-year electricity prices at our merchant waste-to-energy facilities and (ii) impairment charges at a waste-to-energy facility as a result of projected operating losses in 2013.  

Other — Our “Other” income from operations includes (i) those elements of our landfill gas-to-energy operations and third-party subcontract and administration revenues managed by our Energy and Environmental Services and Renewable Energy organizations, that are not included with the operations of our reportable segments; (ii) our recycling brokerage and electronic recycling services and (iii) the results of investments that we are making in expanded service offerings, such as portable self-storage and fluorescent lamp recycling, and in oil and gas producing properties. In addition, our “Other” income from operations reflects the results of non-operating entities that provide financial assurance and self-insurance support for our Solid Waste.  

Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include:  

   •   Net charges of $339 million and $59 million primarily related to impairments recognized in 2014 and 2013, respectively;  

   •   Improved results in our Strategic Business Solutions as a result of our system and process enhancements;  

   •   Favorable adjustments in 2014 and 2013 to contingent consideration associated with the Greenstar acquisition, offset by higher administrative and restructuring costs associated with the acquired operations in 2013; and  

   •   Improved results in our organics and medical waste services in 2013.  

Corporate and Other — Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include:  

   •   Restructuring charges recognized in 2014 and subsequent benefits realized as a result of the restructuring;  

   •   Charges for the settlement of a legal dispute and related fees in 2014;  

   •   Increased health and welfare costs in 2014;  

55  

Table of Contents 

   •   Unfavorable adjustments in both 2014 and 2012 as well as favorable adjustments in 2013 related to changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to discount the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets;  

   •   Our professional fees continued to decline during 2014 as a result of our concerted effort to reduce consulting fees. Our 2013 consulting fees were lower as we incurred significant fees during 2012 resulting from company-wide initiatives; and  

   •   Favorable risk management allocation in 2014 and higher year-over-year risk management expense in 2013 primarily due to increased overall costs associated with auto and general liability insurance.  

Interest Expense, net  

Our interest expense, net was $466 million in 2014, $477 million in 2013 and $484 million in 2012. During 2014, the decrease in interest expense was primarily attributable to (i) the impacts that lower market interest rates have had on certain of our tax-exempt debt; (ii) issuing new debt at lower fixed interest rates than debt repaid upon scheduled maturities and (iii) reduced costs associated with our letter of credit facilities due to improvements in the Company’s overall credit rating. These decreases were partially offset by increases in expense associated with our terminated interest rate swaps due to the maturity of the underlying senior notes. In December 2014, the Company decided to redeem $947 million of senior notes due in 2015, 2017 and 2019 with a weighted average coupon rate of 7.0%. The Company incurred a make-whole premium of $130 million to repay these notes with available cash in January 2015. We anticipate that a near-term refinancing of these debt balances will reduce interest expense in future years.  

During 2013, our debt balances increased by approximately $300 million, which can generally be attributed to the debt financing of our acquisition of RCI offset by debt repayments. In spite of this increase in debt, we reduced our interest costs by (i) reducing the interest rate periods of some of our tax-exempt bonds, allowing us to benefit from lower rates available for shorter-term remarketings; (ii) issuing new debt at lower fixed interest rates than debt repaid upon scheduled maturities and (iii) reducing the cost of our revolving credit facility by amending the credit agreement to provide for lower fees and rates.  

Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities  

We recognized “Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities” of $53 million, $34 million and $46 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. These losses are primarily related to our noncontrolling interests in two limited liability companies established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties and a refined coal facility, as well as (i) noncontrolling investments made to support our strategic initiatives and (ii) unconsolidated trusts for final capping, closure, post-closure or environmental obligations. The tax impacts realized as a result of our investments in low-income housing properties and the refined coal facility are discussed below in Provision for Income Taxes. Refer to Notes 9 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these investments. The expense in 2014 as compared to 2013 was impacted by charges of $11 million in 2014 primarily to write down equity method investments in waste diversion technology companies to their fair value. The expense in 2013 as compared to 2012 was impacted by a charge of $10 million in 2012 related to a payment we made under a guarantee on behalf of an equity method investment in an unconsolidated entity that went into liquidation.  

Other, net  

We recognized other, net expense of $29 million, $74 million and $18 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The expenses for 2014, 2013 and 2012 were impacted by impairment charges of $22 million, $71 million and $16 million, respectively, related to other-than-temporary declines in the value of investments in waste diversion technology companies which were accounted for under the cost method. We wrote down our investments to their fair value which was primarily determined using an income approach based on estimated  

56  

Table of Contents 

 future cash flow projections and, to a lesser extent, third-party investors’ recent transactions in these securities. Partially offsetting the 2013 charges was a $4 million gain on the sale of a similar investment. The remaining expenses recognized during the reported periods are primarily related to the impact of foreign currency translation.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

We recorded provisions for income taxes of $413 million in 2014, $364 million in 2013 and $443 million in 2012. These tax provisions resulted in an effective income tax rate of approximately 23.6%, 73.8% and 34.0% for the years ended 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 is primarily affected by (i) variations in our income before income taxes; (ii) the tax implications of divestitures; (iii) federal tax credits; (iv) adjustments to our accruals and related deferred taxes; (v) tax audit settlements; (vi) the realization of federal and state net operating loss and credit carry-forwards and (vii) the tax implications of impairments. The impacts of these items are summarized below:  

   •   Tax Implications of Divestitures — During 2014, the Company recorded a net gain of $515 million primarily related to the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business, our Puerto Rico operations and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area. Had this net gain been fully taxable, our provision for income taxes would have increased by $138 million. Refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to divestitures.  

   •   Investment in Refined Coal Facility — Our refined coal facility investment and the resulting federal tax credits reduced our provision for income taxes by $21 million, $20 million and $21 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our refined coal facility investment.  

   •   Investment in Low-Income Housing Properties — Our low-income housing properties investment and the resulting federal tax credits reduced our provision for income taxes by $37 million, $38 million and $38 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our low-income housing properties investment.  

   •   Adjustments to Accruals and Related Deferred Taxes — Adjustments to our accruals and related deferred taxes due to the filing of our income tax returns and changes in state law resulted in a reduction of $24 million and increases of $4 million and $7 million to our provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

   •   Tax Audit Settlements — The settlement of various tax audits resulted in reductions to our provision for income taxes of $12 million, $11 million and $10 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

   •   State Net Operating Loss and Credit Carry-forwards — During 2014, 2013 and 2012, we recognized state net operating loss and credit carry-forwards resulting in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $16 million, $16 million and $5 million, respectively.  

   •   Federal Net Operating Loss Carry-Forwards — During 2012, we recognized additional federal net operating loss carry-forwards resulting in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $8 million.  

   •   Tax Implications of Impairments — A portion of the impairment charges recognized are not deductible for tax purposes. Had the charges been fully deductible, our provision for income taxes would have been reduced by $8 million, $235 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 respectively. See Notes 6 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to asset impairments and unusual items.  

We expect our 2015 recurring effective tax rate will be approximately 36.0% based on projected income before income taxes, federal tax credits and other permanent items.  

57  

Table of Contents 

The Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 was signed into law on December 19, 2014 and included an extension for one year of the bonus depreciation allowance. As a result, 50% of qualifying capital expenditures on property placed in service before January 1, 2015 were depreciated immediately. The acceleration of deductions on 2014 qualifying capital expenditures resulting from the bonus depreciation provisions had no impact on our effective income tax rate for 2014 although it will reduce our future cash taxes by approximately $60 million. Taking accelerated deductions results in increased cash taxes in subsequent periods when the deductions related to the capital expenditures would have otherwise been taken.  

Noncontrolling Interests  

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $40 million in 2014, $32 million in 2013 and $43 million in 2012. These amounts are principally related to third parties’ equity interests in two limited liability companies (“LLCs”) that own three waste-to-energy facilities operated by our Wheelabrator business. In December 2014, we purchased the noncontrolling interests in the LLCs from the third parties in anticipation of our sale of the Wheelabrator business. The LLCs were then subsequently sold as part of the divestment of our Wheelabrator business. Refer to Notes 19 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the sale of our Wheelabrator business and the consolidation of these variable interest entities, respectively.  

The decrease in 2013 is primarily due to the net loss of $10 million attributable to noncontrolling interest holders associated with the $20 million impairment charge related to a majority-owned waste diversion technology company discussed above in (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items.  

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Discussion and Analysis  

We owned or operated 247 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2014 and 262 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the expected remaining capacity, in cubic yards and tonnage of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills, is shown below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2014 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 46 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are seeking expansion permits at 23 of our landfills that meet the expansion criteria outlined in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions section above. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 49 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume.  

58  

Table of Contents 

The number of landfills we own or operate as of December 31, 2014, segregated by their estimated operating lives (in years), based on remaining permitted and expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume, was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Landfills we operate through lease agreements are similar to landfills we own because we own the landfill’s operating permit and will operate the landfill for the entire lease term, which in many cases is the life of the landfill. We are usually responsible for the final capping, closure and post-closure obligations of the landfills we lease.  

 (b) For operating contracts, the property owner owns the permit and we operate the landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the landfill. However, we are generally responsible for final capping, closure and post-closure obligations under the operating contracts.  

The following table reflects landfill capacity and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts reflected here relate to the combined impacts of (i) new expansions pursued; (ii) increases or decreases in the airspace being pursued for ongoing expansion efforts; (iii) adjustments for differences between the airspace being pursued and airspace granted and (iv) decreases due to decisions to no longer pursue expansion permits.  

 (b) We received expansion permits at eight of our landfills during 2014 and 12 of our landfills during 2013, demonstrating our continued success in working with municipalities and regulatory agencies to expand the disposal capacity of our existing landfills.  

 (c) Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site-specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate; and operating practices. We continually focus on improving the utilization of airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials; and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training.  

59  

Table of Contents 

The tons received at our landfills in 2014 and 2013 are shown below (tons in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In 2014, we divested 11 landfills, our contract expired at three landfills and we closed one landfill.  

 (b) These amounts include 1.2 million tons at December 31, 2014 and 1.5 million tons at December 31, 2013, that were received at our landfills but were used for beneficial purposes and generally were redirected from the permitted airspace to other areas of the landfill. Waste types that are frequently identified for beneficial use include green waste for composting and clean dirt for on-site construction projects.  

When a landfill we own or operate receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, we generally transfer the management of the site, including any remediation activities, to our closed sites management group. As of December 31, 2014, our closed sites management group managed 210 closed landfills.  

Landfill Assets — We capitalize various costs that we incur to prepare a landfill to accept waste. These costs generally include expenditures for land (including the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property), permitting, excavation, liner material and installation, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. The cost basis of our landfill assets also includes estimates of future costs associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities, which are discussed further below.  

The following table reflects the total cost basis of our landfill assets and accumulated landfill airspace amortization as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2014 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As of December 31, 2014, we estimate that we will spend approximately $400 million in 2015, and approximately $800 million in 2016 and 2017 combined, for the construction and development of our landfill assets. The specific timing of landfill capital spending is dependent on future events, and spending estimates are subject to change due to fluctuations in landfill waste volumes, changes in environmental requirements and other factors impacting landfill operations.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Liabilities — As we accept waste at our landfills, we incur significant asset retirement obligations, which include liabilities associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities. These liabilities are accounted for in accordance with authoritative guidance associated with accounting for asset retirement obligations and are discussed in Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have liabilities for the remediation of properties that have incurred environmental damage, which generally was caused by operations or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired operations or a site. We recognize environmental remediation liabilities when we determine that the liability is probable and the estimated cost for the likely remedy can be reasonably estimated.  

The following table reflects our landfill liabilities and our environmental remediation liabilities as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2014 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Landfill Costs and Expenses — As disclosed in the Operating Expenses section above, our landfill operating costs include interest accretion on asset retirement obligations, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs, and other landfill site costs. The following table summarizes these costs for each of the three years indicated (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The comparison of these costs for the reported periods has been significantly affected by accounting for changes in the risk-free discount rate that we use to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation liabilities and environmental remediation recovery assets, which is based on the rate for U.S. Treasury bonds with a term approximating the weighted-average period until settlement of the underlying obligations.  

Amortization of landfill airspace, which is included as a component of “Depreciation and amortization” expense, includes the following:  

   •   the amortization of landfill capital costs, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) estimated future costs for landfill development and construction required to develop our landfills to their remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and  

61  

Table of Contents 

   •   the amortization of asset retirement costs arising from landfill final capping, closure and post-closure obligations, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) projected asset retirement costs.  

Amortization expense is recorded on a units-of-consumption basis, applying cost as a rate per ton. The rate per ton is calculated by dividing each component of the amortizable basis of a landfill by the number of tons needed to fill the corresponding asset’s airspace. Landfill capital costs and closure and post-closure asset retirement costs are generally incurred to support the operation of the landfill over its entire operating life and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using a landfill’s total airspace capacity. Final capping asset retirement costs are related to a specific final capping event and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using each discrete final capping event’s estimated airspace capacity. Accordingly, each landfill has multiple per-ton amortization rates.  

The following table presents our landfill airspace amortization expense on a per-ton basis:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Different per-ton amortization rates are applied at each of our 252 landfills, and per-ton amortization rates vary significantly from one landfill to another due to (i) inconsistencies that often exist in construction costs and provincial, state and local regulatory requirements for landfill development and landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities and (ii) differences in the cost basis of landfills that we develop versus those that we acquire. Accordingly, our landfill airspace amortization expense measured on a per-ton basis can fluctuate due to changes in the mix of volumes we receive across the Company year-over-year.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet and landfill equipment; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) final capping, closure and post-closure activities at our landfills; (vi) the repayment of debt and discharging of other obligations and (vii) capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments in support of our strategic growth plans. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through dividend payments, and we have also returned value to our shareholders through share repurchases.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations  

The following is a summary of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cash and cash equivalents — Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of short-term interest-bearing instruments with maturities of three months or less at date of purchase. The increase at December 31, 2014 is primarily related to the December 2014 sale of our Wheelabrator business.  

Restricted trust and escrow accounts — Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist primarily of funds deposited for purposes of settling landfill final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations. These balances are primarily included within “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The “Other” balance at December 31, 2014 includes the $29.2 million funding of a legal settlement pending final court approval for disbursement.  

Debt — We use long-term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax-exempt bonds to borrow on a long-term basis, but we also use other instruments and facilities when appropriate. The components of our long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2014 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2013 were primarily attributable to (i) the use of cash proceeds from the sale of our Wheelabrator business to temporarily repay outstanding borrowings under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility; (ii) the use of cash generated from our Canadian operations to reduce the balance of our Canadian term loan and (iii) the impacts of other non-cash changes in our debt balances due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps, foreign currency translation, interest accretion and capital leases and other debt obligations.  

Our current debt balances as of December 31, 2014, are primarily related to $947 million of senior notes that the Company decided to redeem in advance of their scheduled maturity, including $350 million of 6.375% senior notes that were scheduled to mature in March 2015, $147 million of 7.125% senior notes that were scheduled to mature in December 2017 and $450 million of 7.375% senior notes that were scheduled to mature in March 2019. We repaid these notes and the related make-whole premium and accrued interest with available cash in January 2015. We anticipate that a near-term refinancing of these debt balances will reduce interest expense in future years.  

63  

Table of Contents 

We have credit facilities in place to support our liquidity and financial assurance needs. The following table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit (in millions) at December 31, categorized by type of facility:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In July 2013, we amended and restated our revolving credit facility, increasing our total credit capacity to $2.25 billion and extending the term through July 2018. At December 31, 2014, we had no outstanding borrowings and $785 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,465 million.  

 (b) As of December 31, 2014, we had an aggregate committed capacity of $400 million under letter of credit facilities with terms extending through December 2018. This letter of credit capacity was fully utilized as of December 31, 2014.  

 (c) These letters of credit are outstanding under various arrangements that do not obligate the counterparty to provide a committed capacity.  

Summary of Cash Flow Activity  

The following is a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparisons of our operating cash flows in 2014 as compared to 2013 are summarized below:  

   •   Increase in earnings – Our income from operations, excluding depreciation and amortization, increased by $1.2 billion, on a year-over-year basis. Certain of the more significant drivers of our earnings improvement include:  

   •   Lower non-cash impairment charges of $652 million in 2014 as compared to 2013; and  

   •   The net gain on the sale of our Wheelabrator business of $519 million in 2014.  

After considering these items, and certain other non-cash items included in our comparative results, our earnings drove an improvement in our cash flows from operating activities of approximately $100 million.  

   •   Increase in tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes was approximately $247 million higher on a year-over-year basis due to (i) higher pre-tax earnings; (ii) approximately $210 million anticipated overpayment during 2014, when comparing our year-end tax provisions to payments made throughout the year; and (iii) taxes associated with the divestiture of our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets.  

   •   Forward starting swaps — During the first quarter of 2014, the forward-starting interest rate swaps associated with the anticipated issuance of senior notes in 2014 matured, and we paid cash of $36 million to settle the liabilities related to the swaps. This cash payment has been classified as a change in “Accounts payable and accrued liabilities” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

64  

Table of Contents 

   •   Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was favorably impacted on a year-over-year basis by changes in our working capital accounts. Although our working capital changes may vary from year to year, they are typically driven by changes in accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable changes, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments. 

The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows in 2013 as compared with 2012 are summarized below:  

   •   Earnings change — Our 2013 earnings drove our improved net cash provided by operating activities in spite of a year-over-year decrease in income from operations, of $772 million. Our income from operations decline resulted from higher non-cash charges during 2013 of $945 million, associated principally with higher impairment charges. Absent these non-cash charges, we experienced higher earnings, which resulted in cash flow expansion.  

   •   Increased income tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, was approximately $144 million higher on a year-over-year basis. Note that, while pre-tax income on a year-over-year basis has declined $809 million, a significant portion of the 2013 impairments discussed above do not qualify for a tax benefit. See Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items below for additional information.  

   •   Forward starting swaps — During the third quarter of 2012, the forward-starting interest rate swaps associated with anticipated fixed-rate debt issuances were terminated contemporaneously with the actual issuance of senior notes requiring a cash payment of $59 million. This cash payment has been classified as a change in “Other liabilities” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   •   Termination of interest rate swaps — In April 2012, we elected to terminate our $1 billion interest rate swap portfolio associated with senior notes that were scheduled to mature from November 2012 through March 2018. Upon termination of the swaps, we received $72 million in cash for their fair value. The cash proceeds received from the termination of interest rate swap agreements have been classified as a change in “Other assets” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   •   Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was favorably impacted in 2013 by changes in our working capital accounts. Although our working capital changes may vary from year to year, they are typically driven by changes in accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments. Additionally, accruals for our annual incentive plan favorably affected our working capital comparison, driven by both higher incentive plan expense accruals in 2013 compared to 2012 and lower incentive plan payments in 2013 as compared to 2012.  

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   •   Capital expenditures — We used $1,151 million during 2014 for capital expenditures, compared with $1,271 million in 2013 and $1,510 million in 2012. The decrease can generally be attributed to increased focus on capital spending management. Capital expenditures in 2012 included increased spending on compressed natural gas vehicles, related fueling infrastructure, and information technology infrastructure and growth initiatives, as well as our taking advantage of the bonus depreciation legislation.  

   •    Proceeds from divestitures — Proceeds from divestitures and other assets (net of cash divested) were $2,253 million in 2014, $138 million in 2013 and $44 million in 2012. These divestitures were made as  

65  

Table of Contents 

     part of our initiative to improve or divest certain non-strategic or underperforming operations. In 2014, our proceeds from divestitures were primarily related to the sale of our Wheelabrator business for $1.95 billion and, to a lesser extent, the sale of our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area. In 2013, our proceeds from divestitures included approximately $41 million related to oil and gas producing properties and $14 million related to certain of our medical waste service operations and a transfer station in our Greater Mid-Atlantic Area. The remaining amount reported for 2013, as well as the proceeds in 2012 generally relate to the sale of fixed assets.  

   •   Acquisitions — Our spending on acquisitions was $35 million in 2014 compared with $724 million in 2013 and $250 million in 2012. All of our 2014 acquisitions related to our Solid Waste business. In 2013, our acquisitions consisted primarily of the recycling operations of Greenstar, for which we paid $170 million, and substantially all of the assets of RCI, for which we paid $481 million. The remainder of our 2013 acquisitions related to our Solid Waste business and energy services operations. In 2012, our acquisitions consisted primarily of interests in oil and gas producing properties acquired through two transactions, for which we paid $94 million. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our acquisitions. We continue to focus on accretive acquisitions and growth opportunities that will enhance and expand our existing service offerings.  

   •   Investments in unconsolidated entities — We made $33 million, $33 million and $77 million of cash investments in unconsolidated entities during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. In 2014 and 2013, our investments primarily related to additional capital contributions associated with our investment in a refined coal facility and waste diversion technology companies. In 2012, our investments primarily related to furthering our goal of expanding our service offerings and developing waste diversion technologies.  

   •   Net receipts from restricted funds — Net cash received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts, which are largely generated from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds for our capital needs, contributed $19 million to our investing activities in 2014 compared with $71 million in 2013 and $14 million in 2012. The significant increase in cash received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts during 2013 was due to an increase in tax-exempt borrowings.  

   •   Other — Net cash used by our other investing activities of $58 million, $81 million and $51 million during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, was primarily associated with the funding of notes receivable associated with Wheelabrator’s investments in the U.K., prior to the sale of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014.  

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   •   Share repurchases — For the periods presented, all share repurchases have been made in accordance with financial plans approved by our Board of Directors.  

During the third quarter of 2014, we entered into accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) agreements with two financial institutions to repurchase an aggregate of $600 million of our common stock. At the beginning of the ASR repurchase periods, we delivered the $600 million in cash and received 9.6 million shares, which represented 70% of the shares expected to be repurchased based on then-current market prices. These agreements were completed in February 2015 and we received approximately 2.8 million additional shares. The final weighted average per share purchase price for the completed ASR agreements was $48.58.  

We paid $239 million to repurchase 5.4 million shares of our common stock in 2013. We did not repurchase any shares during 2012.  

We announced in February 2015 that the Board of Directors has authorized up to $1 billion in future share repurchases; this authorization is the only currently outstanding authorization for share  

66  

Table of Contents 

 repurchases. Any future share repurchases will be made at the discretion of management and will depend on factors similar to those considered by the Board of Directors in making dividend declarations.  

   •   Dividend payments — For the periods presented, all dividends have been declared and approved by our Board of Directors and paid in accordance with our financial plans.  

We paid an aggregate of $693 million in cash dividends during 2014, compared with $683 million in 2013, and $658 million in 2012. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.355 in 2012, to $0.365 in 2013, and to $0.375 in 2014 and has been offset, in part, by a reduction in our common stock outstanding during 2013 and 2014 as a result of our share repurchase programs.  

In February 2015, we announced that our Board of Directors expects to increase the quarterly dividend from $0.375 to $0.385 per share for dividends declared in 2015. However, all future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors, and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future business plans and other factors the Board of Directors may deem relevant.  

   •   Proceeds from the exercise of common stock options — The exercise of common stock options and the related excess tax benefits generated a total of $93 million of financing cash inflows during 2014 compared with $132 million during 2013 and $43 million during 2012. The increase in exercised stock options during 2013 and, to a lesser extent, during 2014 is primarily due to the increase in the Company’s stock price combined with exercises in advance of stock option expiration dates.  

   •   Debt borrowings (repayments) — Net debt repayments were $751 million in 2014 compared to net debt borrowings of $155 million and $122 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively. The following summarizes our cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During 2014 and 2012, we did not have any significant non-cash investing and financing activities. For the year ended December 31, 2013, non-cash investing and financing activities included proceeds from tax-exempt borrowings, net of principal payments made directly from trust funds, of $99 million.  

   •    Acquisitions of and distributions paid to noncontrolling interests — The purchases of and distributions paid to our noncontrolling interests were $125 million, $59 million and $46 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The increase during 2014 compared to 2013 is primarily attributable to the purchase of the noncontrolling interests in the LLCs related to our waste-to-energy facilities in December 2014  

67  

Table of Contents 

     for $91 million, in anticipation of our sale of our Wheelabrator business. The LLCs were then subsequently sold as part of the divestment of our Wheelabrator business. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these LLCs.  

Summary of Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2014 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2014 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities for final capping, closure and post-closure will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills.  

 (b) The amounts reported here represent the scheduled principal payments related to our long-term debt, excluding related interest. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding interest rates.  

 (c) Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2014 include $638 million of tax-exempt bonds subject to repricing within the next 12 months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re-offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowing for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2014, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 (d) Our recorded debt obligations include non-cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods.  

 (e) Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

 (f) Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For contracts that require us to purchase minimum quantities of goods or services, we have estimated our future minimum obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. Accordingly, the amounts reported in the table are not necessarily indicative of our actual cash flow obligations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items  

Bonus Depreciation — The Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 was signed into law on December 19, 2014 and included an extension for one year of the bonus depreciation allowance. As a result, 50% of qualifying capital expenditures on property placed in service before January 1, 2015 were depreciated immediately. The acceleration of deductions on 2014 qualifying capital expenditures resulting from the bonus depreciation provisions had no impact on our effective income tax rate for 2014 although it will reduce our cash taxes by approximately $60 million.  

Taking accelerated deductions results in increased cash taxes in subsequent periods when the deductions related to the capital expenditures would have otherwise been taken. Overall, the effect of all applicable years’ bonus depreciation programs resulted in increased cash taxes of $30 million in 2014. Separately, our tax payments in 2014 were $247 million higher than the tax payments made in 2013 primarily due to (i) higher pre-tax earnings, (ii) an anticipated overpayment of taxes, and (iii) divestiture of our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets.  

Uncertain Tax Positions — We have liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are included as a component of long-term “Other liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because the Company does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. We anticipate that approximately $12 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, and $3 million of related tax assets may be reversed within the next 12 months. The anticipated reversals primarily relate to state tax items, none of which are material, and are expected to result from audit settlements or the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations period.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We have financial interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities as discussed in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2014, nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

New Accounting Standard Pending Adoption  

In May 2014, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with revenue recognition. The amended guidance requires companies to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Additionally, the amendments will require enhanced qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding customer contracts. The amended authoritative guidance associated with revenue recognition is effective for the Company on January 1, 2017. The amended guidance may be applied retrospectively for all periods presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the amended guidance recognized at the date of initial application. We are in the process of assessing the provisions of the amended guidance and have not determined whether the adoption will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Inflation  

While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of diesel fuel, have affected our income from operations margins in recent years, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not  

69  

Table of Contents 

 expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, as of December 31, 2014, approximately 30% of our collection revenues are generated under long-term agreements with price adjustments based on various indices intended to measure inflation. Additionally, management’s estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.