Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 Financial Section Roadmap  

 Management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A) can be found on pages 32 to 65, the report related to the financial statements and internal control over financial reporting can be found on page 66 and the financial statements and related notes can be found on pages F-1 to F-67. The following table is designed to assist in your review of MD&A.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Overview and Outlook  

 L-3’s Business  

 L-3 is a prime system contractor in aircraft modernization and maintenance, Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C3ISR) systems, and government services. L-3 is also a leading provider of high technology products, subsystems and systems. Our customers include the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and its prime contractors, U.S. Government intelligence agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Department of State (DoS), U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ), allied foreign governments, domestic and foreign commercial customers, and select other U.S. federal, state and local government agencies.  

 We have the following four reportable segments: (1) C3ISR, (2) Government Services, (3) Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M), and (4) Electronic Systems. During the 2009 fourth quarter, we renamed our Specialized Products reportable segment Electronic Systems to better describe the nature of the segment’s businesses. Financial information with respect to each of our reportable segments is included in Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements. C3ISR provides products and services for the global ISR market,    

 32   
 C3ISR systems, networked communications systems and secure communications products. We believe that these products and services are critical elements for a substantial number of major command, control and communication, intelligence gathering and space systems. These products and services are used to connect a variety of airborne, space, ground and sea-based communication systems and are used in the transmission, processing, recording, monitoring, and dissemination functions of these communication systems. Government Services provides a full range of engineering, technical, analytical, information technology (IT), advisory, training, logistics and support services to the DoD, DoS, DoJ, and U.S. Government intelligence agencies and allied foreign governments. AM&M provides modernization, upgrades and sustainment, maintenance and logistics support services for military and various government aircraft and other platforms. We sell these services primarily to the DoD, the Canadian Department of Defense (DND) and other allied foreign governments. Electronic Systems provides a broad range of products and services, including components, products, subsystems, systems, and related services to military and commercial customers in several niche markets across several business areas, including power & control systems, electro-optic/infrared (EO/IR), microwave, simulation & training, precision engagement, aviation products, security & detection, propulsion systems, displays, telemetry & advanced technology, undersea warfare, and marine services.  

 During the quarter ended March 27, 2009, we revised our reportable segment presentations to conform to certain re-alignments in our management and organization structure. Consequently, we made certain reclassifications between our C3ISR, Government Services and AM&M reportable segments. See Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the prior period amounts reclassified between reportable segments. Also, during the 2009 fourth quarter, we renamed our Specialized Products reportable segment Electronic Systems to better describe the nature of the segment’s businesses.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2009, we generated sales of $15,615 million. Our primary customer was the DoD. The table below presents a summary of our 2009 sales by end customer and the percent contributed by each to our total 2009 sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Most of our contracts (revenue arrangements) with the U.S. Government are subject to U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency audits and various cost and pricing regulations, and include standard provisions for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. Multiyear U.S. Government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable. Foreign government contracts generally include comparable provisions relating to termination for the convenience of the relevant foreign government.  

 Business Strategy  

 Our business strategy is customer-focused and aims to increase shareholder value by providing products and services to our customers that create value for them with responsive, high-quality and affordable solutions.    

 33   
 Financially, our emphasis is on sustainably growing earnings per share and cash flow. Our strategy involves a flexible and balanced combination of organic growth, cost reductions, select business acquisitions and divestitures, and dividends and share repurchases, enabling us to grow the Company and also return cash to our shareholders. We intend to maintain and expand our position as a leading prime system contractor and supplier of products, subsystems, systems, and services to the DoD, other U.S. Government agencies, allied foreign governments and commercial customers, both domestic and international. Our strategy includes the objectives discussed below.  

 We believe a key part of L-3’s strategy is to create an entrepreneurial, accountable, and results-driven culture that is focused on meeting our customer’s needs and on achieving L-3’s strategic goals and growth objectives. L-3’s culture is made up of diverse people providing creative solutions and ideas in an environment that fosters teamwork and collaboration across our business units. Operating with integrity and with a commitment to the highest standards of ethical conduct is an important part of our strategy to build and maintain the trust of our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers and communities where we live and work.  

 We believe that outstanding program and contract performance on our existing programs and contracts in terms of on-budget, on-schedule and in accordance with our contractual obligations is the foundation for successfully meeting our objectives of expanding L-3’s prime contractor and supplier positions and growing sales organically. We believe that a prerequisite for growing and winning new business is to retain our existing business with successful contract performance, including schedule, cost, technical and other performance criteria. Therefore, we will continue to focus on delivering superior contract performance to our customers to maintain our reputation as an agile and responsive contractor and to differentiate L-3 from its competitors.  

 We intend to expand our prime system contractor roles in select business areas where we have domain expertise, including C3ISR, aircraft modernization and maintenance and government technical services. We also intend to enter into “teaming” arrangements with other prime system contractors and platform original equipment manufacturers to compete for select new business opportunities. As an independent supplier of a broad range of products, subsystems and systems in several key business areas, our growth will partially be driven by expanding our share of existing programs and participating on new programs. We also expect to identify opportunities to use our customer relationships and leverage the capabilities of our various businesses, including proprietary technologies, to expand the scope of our products and services to existing and new customers. Furthermore, we intend to continue to supplement our growth by participating on and competing for new programs internationally, particularly in Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia.  

 We intend to continue to align our products, services, internal investments in research and development and business development activities to proactively address customer priorities and requirements. We also intend to grow our sales through the introduction of new products and services and continued increased collaboration among our businesses to offer the best quality and competitive solutions and services to our customers.  

 We intend to use our existing prime contractor and supplier positions and internal investments to grow our sales organically. We expect to continue to benefit from our positions as a supplier to multiple bidders on select prime contract bids. We plan to maintain our diversified and broad business mix with its limited reliance on any single contract, follow-on or new business opportunities. We also expect to continue to supplement our organic sales growth by selectively acquiring businesses that add new products, services, technologies, programs and contracts or provide access to select customers, and provide attractive returns on investment.  

 We intend to continue to aggressively improve and reduce our direct contract costs and overhead costs, including general and administrative costs. Effective management of labor, material, subcontractor and other direct costs is a primary element of favorable contract performance. We also intend to grow sales at a faster rate than overhead costs. We believe continuous cost improvement will enable us to increase our cost competitiveness, expand operating margin and selectively invest in new product development, bids and proposals and other business development activities to organically grow sales.  

 We intend to continue to collaborate among our diversified businesses to develop new business opportunities. The combination of our leading technologies, speed, and agility to meet customer requirements and priorities will allow us to accelerate our shift from a “black box” provider to a system solutions provider.   

 34   
 Industry Considerations  

 In recent years, a variety of changing conditions have significantly affected the markets for defense systems, products and services. There has been a fundamental shift in focus from a traditional “threat-based” model to one that emphasizes a broad range of capabilities needed to respond to all contingencies and to defeat all adversaries (all hazards, all threats). This expanded scope has transformed the U.S. defense posture to a “capabilities-based” orientation that can be tailored and structured to meet the demands of contemporary and future national and homeland security requirements. This new approach involves creating a more flexible response with appropriate capability, agility and force while highlighting changing technologies and operational approaches applied to the challenges we face at every level of warfare and in conditions short of war. The entire set of capabilities resident in the DoD inventory will be examined for change, with special attention given to improved strategic defense systems, interoperable and brilliant networked information and communications systems, precise weapons and survivable delivery platforms, improved and enhanced intelligence, reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition (IRSTA) systems, and security systems in general. This transformation also includes the application of military capabilities for homeland defense and selected emergency response efforts.  

 The 2010 U.S. Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) incorporates “lessons learned” from U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The QDR promotes increased availability of rotary-wing assets, expanded manned and unmanned aircraft systems for ISR, enhanced special operations and irregular warfare capabilities, greater language and cultural capabilities, more effective communications and information sharing, and enhanced security cooperation with partner nations. The QDR also focuses on strategic capabilities to maintain a strong deterrent posture against future challenges to our security and support of U.S. civil authorities.  

 In recent years DoD budgets have reflected increased focus on C5ISR (command, control, communications, computers, collaboration and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance), precision-guided weapons, UAVs and other electro-mechanical robotic capabilities, networked information technologies, special operations forces, and missile defense. In addition, the DoD has focused on a transformation strategy that seeks to balance modernization and recapitalization (or upgrading existing platforms and capabilities) while enhancing readiness and joint operations — all while engaging in demanding on-going military operations. As a result, defense budget program allocations continue to favor immediate war-fighting improvements and concurrent limited investment in future programs. DoD’s emphasis on systems interoperability, force multipliers, advances in intelligence gathering, and the provision of real-time relevant data to battle commanders — often referred to as the common operating picture (COP), have increased the electronic content of nearly all major military procurement and research programs. Therefore, it is expected that the DoD budget for information technologies and defense electronics will grow. We believe L-3 is well positioned to benefit from the expected focus in those areas.  

 While the DoD budget could be affected by several factors, including current and future economic conditions and presidential administration priorities, we are unable to predict the impact and outcome of these uncertainties. However, the current outlook is one of more precise application of DoD spending, which will continue to support L-3’s future orders and sales, operating results and cash flows. Conversely, a decline in the DoD budget would generally have a negative effect on future orders, sales, operating profits, and cash flows of defense contractors, including L-3, depending on the platforms and programs affected by such budget reductions.  

 With regard to U.S. homeland defense and security, increased emphasis in these important endeavors may increase the demand for our capabilities in areas such as security systems, information assurance and cyber security, crisis management, preparedness and prevention services, and non-DoD security operations.  

 Key Performance Measures  

 The primary financial performance measures that L-3 uses to manage its businesses and monitor results of operations are sales growth and operating income growth. Management believes that these financial performance measures are the primary growth drivers for L-3’s earnings per common share and net cash from operating activities. L-3’s business strategy is focused on increasing sales from organic growth and select business acquisitions that add new products, services, technologies, programs or customers to our existing businesses and provide attractive    

 35   
 returns on investment. We define organic sales growth as the increase or decrease in sales for the current period compared to the prior period, excluding sales in the: (1) current period from business and product line acquisitions that are included in L-3’s actual results of operations for less than twelve months, and (2) prior period from business and product line divestitures that are included in L-3’s actual results of operations for the twelve-month period prior to the divestiture date. The two main determinants of our operating income growth are sales growth and improvements in direct and indirect contract costs. We define operating margin as operating income as a percentage of sales.  

 Sales Growth. Our average annual sales growth for the five years ended December 31, 2009, was 18%, with average annual organic sales growth of approximately 8% and average annual sales growth from business acquisitions, net of divestitures, of approximately 10%. Sales growth for the year ended December 31, 2009 was 5%, comprised of organic sales growth of 4%, and sales growth from business acquisitions, net of divestitures, of 1%. We expect future sales to grow at a slower pace than the past five year average.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2009, our largest contract (revenue arrangement) in terms of annual sales was the SOFSA contract, which generated approximately 3% of our sales. On March 3, 2009, SOFSA announced that L-3 was not selected to perform on the follow-on contract. L-3 subsequently protested and, as a consequence, SOFSA has taken corrective action, which will include the issuance of a revised solicitation. Once a new solicitation is issued, proposals will be requested from all bidders. We were notified that a new solicitation will be issued in approximately April 2010, with an expected award date of January 2011. We may not succeed in the recompetition for the next SOFSA contract. We anticipate receiving funding on our current contract extending it from February 28, 2010 to the end of 2010, although we have not yet received the contract extension modification.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2008, our largest contract (revenue arrangement) in terms of annual sales was the USAF Contract Field Team (CFT) contract, which generated 3% of our sales. CFT is a multi-sourced contract, which provides worldwide quick reaction maintenance of deployed aircraft and ground vehicles for the U.S. military. A new CFT contract began on October 1, 2008 and L-3 was one of the winning contractors selected by the USAF to compete for task orders on the new CFT indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract. There are more contractors competing for task orders on the new CFT contract compared to the prior contract; therefore, annual sales on the new contract decreased by $164 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008.  

 As is the case with most other U.S. defense contractors, we have benefited from the upward trend in DoD budget authorization and spending outlays over recent years, including supplemental appropriations for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. We expect future DoD budgets, including supplemental appropriations, to grow at a significantly slower pace than the past several years, and to possibly flatten or decline. However, we believe that our businesses should be able to continue to generate modest organic sales growth because we anticipate the defense budget and spending priorities will continue to focus on several areas that match L-3’s core competencies, such as communications and ISR, sensors, special operations support, helicopter crew training and maintenance and simulation & training.  

 The current and future DoD budgets and level of future Congressional supplemental appropriations for U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan could remain unchanged or decline because of several factors, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration priorities, changing national security and defense requirements, and geo-political developments, which are beyond our control. Any of these factors could result in a significant decline in or redirection of current and future DoD budgets and impact L-3’s future results of operations, including our organic sales growth rate. Additionally, L-3’s future results of operations and sales growth will be affected by our ability to retain our existing business and to successfully compete for new business, which largely depend on: (1) our successful performance on existing contracts, (2) the effectiveness and innovation of our technologies and research and development activities, (3) our ability to offer better program performance than our competitors at a lower cost, and (4) our ability to retain our employees and hire new ones, particularly those employees who have U.S. Government security clearances.  

 Operating Income Growth. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our consolidated operating income was $1,656 million, a decrease of 2% from $1,685 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our consolidated operating    

 36   
 margin was 10.6% for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of 70 basis points from 11.3% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our operating income and operating margins for the year ended December 31, 2008, were impacted by certain items which occurred during the 2008 second quarter as further discussed below. In the aggregate, these items increased operating income by $110 million. Excluding these same items, for the year ended December 31, 2008, our consolidated operating income was $1,575 million and our consolidated operating margin was 10.6%.  

 We expect to continue to generate modest annual increases in operating margin, as we expect to increase sales, grow sales at a rate faster than the increase in our indirect costs, and improve our overall contract performance. However, we may not be able to continue to expand our operating margins on an annual basis. Additionally, in the future, select business acquisitions and select new business, including contract renewals and new contracts, could also reduce our operating margin if their margins are lower than L-3’s operating margin on existing business and contracts. Our business objectives include growing earnings per common share and net cash from operating activities. Improving operating margins is one method for achieving these goals, but it is not the only one.  

 Other Events  

 Accounting Standards Implemented. We adopted nine newly issued accounting standards during 2009, six of which were effective January 1, 2009. In accordance with the transition and disclosure provisions of three of these standards, we retrospectively applied those provisions and adjusted the prior period financial statements accordingly. The adoption of these standards reduced net income attributable to L-3 by $12 million ($0.13 per diluted share) for the year ended December 31, 2009. See Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the standards adopted and their impact to our financial position and results of operations.  

 2008 Events. As discussed above, our 2008 results were impacted by three items that, in the aggregate, increased 2008 consolidated operating income by $110 million and reduced interest expense by $7 million (net $71 million after income taxes, or $0.58 per diluted earnings per share). These three items are collectively referred to as the Q2 2008 Items and are comprised of:  

    •   A gain of $133 million ($81 million after income taxes, or $0.66 per diluted share) related to the reversal of a $126 million liability as a result of a June 27, 2008 decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals which vacated an adverse 2006 jury verdict and $7 million of related accrued interest (the “Litigation Gain”);   

    •   A gain of $12 million ($7 million after income taxes, or $0.06 per diluted share) related to the sale of a product line (the “Product Line Divestiture Gain”); and   

    •   A non-cash impairment charge of $28 million ($17 million after income taxes, or $0.14 per diluted share) related to a write-down of capitalized software development costs for a general aviation product (the “Impairment Charge”).    

 Also, on October 8, 2008, we divested our 85% ownership interest in Medical Education Technologies, Inc. (METI) and recorded a gain in the year ended December 31, 2008 of $33 million ($20 million after income taxes, or $0.16 per diluted share). The gain is excluded from income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

 Liquidity  

 During the 2009 fourth quarter, L-3 Communications refinanced a substantial portion of its debt. On October 2, 2009, L-3 Communications completed a $1 billion offering of 5.20% Senior Notes due October 15, 2019 (Senior Notes). A portion of the net proceeds from the offering was used by L-3 Communications to repay the outstanding $650 million term loan on October 7, 2009. The remaining net proceeds, together with cash on hand, were used to redeem the outstanding $750 million 75/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due on June 15, 2012 (2002 Notes) on November 2, 2009. In connection with the redemption of the 2002 Notes, we recorded a debt retirement charge in the fourth quarter of 2009 of approximately $10 million ($6 million after income tax, or $0.05 per diluted share). The net impact of the refinancing reduced our debt by approximately $400 million. Additionally, on October 23, 2009, we entered into our new $1 billion three-year Revolving Credit Facility that expires on    

 37   
 October 23, 2012, replacing the existing $1 billion revolving credit facility that was scheduled to expire on March 9, 2010.  

 Holders of our $700 million CODES may require us to repurchase them in whole or in part at a cash repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and additional interest, if any) through the exercise of a “put” option on February 1, 2011. Furthermore, the first scheduled maturity of our existing debt is our $400 million 61/8% Senior Subordinated Notes maturing on July 15, 2013.  

 Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow generated from operations. We generated $1,407 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2009. We also had cash and cash equivalents of $1,016 million at December 31, 2009. We currently believe that our liquidity is adequate to meet our anticipated requirements. See “Part II – Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” on page 54.  

 Business Acquisitions and Business and Product Line Dispositions  

 As discussed above, a portion of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire businesses that add new products, services, technologies, programs or customers to our existing businesses. We intend to continue acquiring select businesses for reasonable valuations that will provide attractive returns to L-3. Our business acquisitions, depending on their contract-type, sales mix or other factors, could reduce L-3’s consolidated operating margin while still increasing L-3’s operating income, earnings per share, and net cash from operating activities. In addition, we may also dispose of certain businesses or product lines if we determine that they no longer fit into L-3’s overall business strategy and we are able to receive an attractive sales price.  

 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures  

 Acquisitions. The table below summarizes the acquisitions that we have completed during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, referred to herein as business acquisitions. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our business acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we used $90 million in the aggregate for business acquisitions, including earnout payments and remaining contractual purchase prices for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 38   
  (1)   The purchase price represents the contractual consideration for the acquired business, excluding adjustments for net cash acquired and acquisition transaction costs.   

  (2)   Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $13 million, in the aggregate, which is contingent upon the financial performance of Geneva for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

  (3)   We increased our ownership interest in METI from approximately 80% to 85% in 2008. METI was sold on October 8, 2008, as described below.   

  (4)   Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $1 million, in the aggregate, which is contingent upon the financial performance of GAI through July 2011.   

  (5)   Includes additional purchase price of approximately $4 million for certain acquired tax benefits.    

 All of our business acquisitions are included in our consolidated results of operations from their dates of acquisition. We regularly evaluate potential business acquisitions. On February 18, 2010, we entered into an agreement to acquire all the outstanding common stock of a business for approximately $613 million. The acquisition will be structured as an asset purchase for income tax purposes. We anticipate completing this acquisition in the second quarter of 2010, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. We expect to fund the purchase price with cash on hand.  

 Divestitures. On October 8, 2008, we divested our 85% ownership interest in METI, which was within the Electronic Systems reportable segment. The sale resulted in an after-tax gain of $20 million (pre-tax gain of $33 million), which was excluded from income from continuing operations. The revenues, operating results and net assets of METI for all periods presented were not material and, therefore, are not presented as discontinued operations. METI generated $48 million of sales and $4 million of operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $52 million of sales and $4 million of operating income for the year ended December 31, 2007. On May 9, 2008, we sold the Electron Technologies Passive Microwave Devices (PMD) product line within the previously named Specialized Products segment and recognized an after-tax gain of approximately $7 million (pre-tax gain of $12 million).  

 Critical Accounting Policies  

 Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and cost of sales during the reporting period. The most significant of these estimates and assumptions relate to contract revenue, profit and loss recognition, fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, market values for inventories reported at lower of cost or market, pension and post-retirement benefit obligations, stock-based employee compensation expense, valuation of deferred taxes, litigation reserves and environmental obligations, accrued product warranty costs and the recoverability, useful lives and valuation of recorded amounts of long-lived assets, identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Actual amounts will differ from these estimates and could differ materially. We believe that our critical accounting estimates have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make assumptions about matters that are uncertain and inherently judgmental at the time of the estimate; (2) use of reasonably different assumptions could have changed our estimates, particularly with respect to estimates of contract revenues and costs, and recoverability of assets, and (3) changes in the estimate could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe the following critical accounting policies contain the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.  

 Contract Revenue Recognition and Contract Estimates. A large portion of our revenue is generated using written contracts (revenue arrangements) that require us to design, develop, manufacture, modify, upgrade, test and integrate complex aerospace and electronic equipment, and to provide related engineering and technical services according to the buyer’s specifications. These revenue arrangements or contracts are generally fixed price, cost-plus, or time-and-material and are covered by accounting standards for construction-type and production-type contracts and federal government contractors. Substantially all of our cost-plus type and time-and-material type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. Certain of our contracts with the U.S. Government are    

 39   
 multi-year contracts that are funded annually by the customer, and sales on these multi-year contracts are based on amounts appropriated (funded) by the U.S. Government.  

 Sales and profits on fixed-price type contracts that are covered by accounting standards for construction-type and production-type contracts and federal government contractors are substantially recognized using percentage-of-completion (POC) methods of accounting. Sales and profits on fixed-price production contracts under which units are produced and delivered in a continuous or sequential process are recorded as units are delivered based on their contractual selling prices (the “units-of-delivery” method). Sales and profits on each fixed-price production contract under which units are not produced and delivered in a continuous or sequential process, or under which a relatively few number of units are produced, are recorded based on the ratio of actual cumulative costs incurred to total estimated costs at completion of the contract multiplied by the total estimated contract revenue, less cumulative sales recognized in prior periods (the “cost-to-cost” method). Under both POC methods of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each contract over its entire period of performance, which can exceed one year.  

 Accounting for the sales on these fixed-price contracts, requires the preparation of estimates of (1) the total contract revenue, (2) the total costs at completion, which is equal to the sum of the actual incurred costs to date on the contract and the estimated costs to complete the contract’s statement of work, and (3) the measurement of progress towards completion. The estimated profit or loss at completion on a contract is equal to the difference between the total estimated contract revenue and the total estimated cost at completion. Under the units-of-delivery method, sales on a fixed-price type contract are recorded as the units are delivered during the period based on their contractual selling prices. Under the cost-to-cost method, sales on a fixed-price type contract are recorded at amounts equal to the ratio of actual cumulative costs incurred divided by total estimated costs at completion, multiplied by (i) the total estimated contract revenue, less (ii) the cumulative sales recognized in prior periods. The profit recorded on a contract in any period using either the units-of-delivery method or cost-to-cost method is equal to (i) the current estimated total profit margin multiplied by the cumulative sales recognized, less (ii) the amount of cumulative profit previously recorded for the contract. In the case of a contract for which the total estimated costs exceed the total estimated revenues, a loss arises, and a provision for the entire loss is recorded in the period that the loss becomes evident. The unrecoverable costs on a loss contract that are expected to be incurred in future periods are recorded as a component of other current liabilities entitled “Estimated cost in excess of estimated contract value to complete contracts in process in a loss position.”  

 Adjustments to estimates for a contract’s revenue, estimated costs at completion and estimated profit or loss are often required as work progresses under a contract, as experience is gained and as more information is obtained, even though the scope of work required under the contract may not change, or if contract modifications occur. The impact of revisions in profit (loss) estimates for all types of contracts subject to percentage-of-completion accounting are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions are made. Amounts representing contract change orders or claims are included in sales only when they can be reliably estimated and their realization is reasonably assured. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant, can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as reduce the valuations of receivables and inventories, and in some cases result in liabilities to complete contracts in a loss position.  

 Sales and profits on cost-plus type contracts that are covered by accounting standards for government contractors are recognized as allowable costs are incurred on the contract, at an amount equal to the allowable costs plus the estimated profit on those costs. The estimated profit on a cost-plus contract is fixed or variable based on the contractual fee arrangement. Incentive and award fees are our primary variable fee contractual arrangement. Incentive and award fees on cost-plus type contracts are included as an element of total estimated contract revenues and recorded to sales when a basis exists for the reasonable prediction of performance in relation to established contractual targets and we are able to make reasonably dependable estimates for them. Sales and profits on time-and-material type contracts are recognized on the basis of direct labor hours expended multiplied by the contractual fixed rate per hour, plus the actual costs of material and other direct non-labor costs. On a time-and-material type contract, the fixed hourly rates include amounts for the cost of direct labor, indirect contract costs and profit. Cost-plus type or time-and-material type contracts generally contain less estimation risks than fixed-price type contracts.   

 40   
 Sales on arrangements for (1) fixed-price type contracts that require us to perform services that are not related to production of tangible assets (Fixed-Price Service Contracts), and (2) certain commercial customers are recognized in accordance with revenue recognition accounting standards for revenue arrangements with commercial customers. Sales for our businesses whose customers are primarily commercial business enterprises are substantially generated from single element revenue arrangements. Sales are recognized when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred or services have been performed, the selling price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Sales for Fixed-Price Service Contracts that do not contain measurable units of work performed are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual service period, unless evidence suggests that the revenue is earned, or obligations fulfilled, in a different manner. Sales for Fixed-Price Service Contracts that contain measurable units of work performed are generally recognized when the units of work are completed. Sales and profit on cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts within the scope of revenue recognition accounting standards for revenue arrangements with commercial customers are recognized in the same manner as those within the scope of contract accounting standards, except for incentive and award fees. Cost-based incentive fees are recognized when they are realizable in the amount that would be due under the contractual termination provisions as if the contract was terminated. Performance based incentive fees and award fees are recorded as sales when awarded by the customer.  

 Sales and profit in connection with contracts to provide services to the U.S. Government that contain collection risk because the contracts are incrementally funded and subject to the availability of funds appropriated, are deferred until the contract modification is obtained, indicating that adequate funds are available to the contract or task order.  

 Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets. In accordance with the accounting standards for business combinations, we allocate the cost of business acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition (commonly referred to as the purchase price allocation). As part of the purchase price allocations for our business acquisitions, identifiable intangible assets are recognized as assets apart from goodwill if they arise from contractual or other legal rights, or if they are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired business and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. However, we do not recognize any intangible assets apart from goodwill for the assembled workforces of our business acquisitions.  

 Generally, the largest separately identifiable intangible asset from the businesses that we acquire is the value of their assembled workforces, which includes the human capital of the management, administrative, marketing and business development, scientific, engineering and technical employees of the acquired businesses. The success of our businesses, including their ability to retain existing business (revenue arrangements) and to successfully compete for and win new business (revenue arrangements), is primarily dependent on the management, marketing and business development, contracting, engineering and technical skills and knowledge of our employees, rather than on productive capital (plant and equipment, and technology and intellectual property). Additionally, for a significant portion of our businesses, our ability to attract and retain employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly those with top-secret and above clearances, is critical to our success, and is often a prerequisite for retaining existing revenue arrangements and pursuing new ones. Generally, patents, trademarks and licenses are not material for our acquired businesses. Furthermore, our U.S. Government contracts (revenue arrangements) generally permit other companies to use our patents in most domestic work performed by such other companies for the U.S. Government. Therefore, because intangible assets for assembled workforces are part of goodwill, the substantial majority of the intangible assets for our acquired business acquisitions are recognized as goodwill. Additionally, the value assigned to goodwill for our business acquisitions also includes the value that we expect to realize from cost reduction measures that we implement for our acquired businesses. Goodwill equals the amount of the purchase price of the business acquired in excess of the sum of the fair value of identifiable acquired assets, both tangible and intangible, less the fair value of liabilities assumed. At December 31, 2009, we had goodwill of $8,190 million and identifiable intangible assets of $377 million.  

 The most significant identifiable intangible asset that is separately recognized in accordance with U.S. GAAP for our business acquisitions is customer contractual relationships. All of our customer relationships are established through written customer contracts (revenue arrangements). The fair value for customer contractual relationships is    

 41   
 determined, as of the date of acquisition, based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the estimated future after-tax earnings and cash flows (including cash flows from working capital) arising from the follow-on sales on contract (revenue arrangement) renewals expected from customer contractual relationships over their estimated lives, including the probability of expected future contract renewals and sales, less a contributory asset charge, all of which is discounted to present value. If actual future after-tax cash flows are significantly lower than our estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the identifiable intangible assets to their realizable values. All identifiable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives as the economic benefits are consumed, ranging from four to 30 years.  

 We review goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually as of November 30, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable in accordance with the accounting standards for intangibles and goodwill. In accordance with these standards, goodwill and other intangible assets for each reporting unit are tested using a two-step process. A reporting unit is an operating segment, as defined by the segment reporting accounting standards, or a component of an operating segment. A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and is reviewed by operating segment management. Two or more components of an operating segment may be aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing purposes if the components have similar economic characteristics.  

 L-3 had 18 reporting units at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. The composition of our reporting units and associated goodwill were substantially the same in 2009 as compared to 2008 except for changes in goodwill caused primarily by a business acquisition and foreign currency translation adjustments, as disclosed in Note 7 to our audited consolidated financial statements, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

 The table below presents the number of reporting units in each of our reportable segments and the associated goodwill, at December 31, 2009.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The first step in the process of testing goodwill for potential impairment is to compare the carrying value of the reporting unit to its fair value. If a potential impairment is identified, the second step is to measure the impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying value of goodwill of the reporting unit. Our methodology for determining the fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow (DCF) valuation approach, and is dependent on estimates for future sales, operating income, depreciation and amortization, income tax payments, working capital changes, and capital expenditures, as well as, expected long-term growth rates for cash flows. All of these factors are affected by economic conditions related to the industries in which we operate (predominantly the U.S. defense industry), as well as, conditions in the U.S. capital markets.  

 The more significant assumptions used in our DCF valuations to determine the fair values of our reporting units in connection with the goodwill valuation assessment at November 30, 2009, were: (1) detailed three-year cash flow projections for each of our reporting units, which are based primarily on our estimates of future sales and operating income, (2) the expected long-term growth rates for each of our reporting units, which approximate the expected long-term growth rate for the U.S. economy and the respective industries in which the reporting units operate, and (3) risk adjusted discount rates, including the estimated risk-free rate of return, that are used to discount future cash flow projections to their present values. There were no significant changes to the underlying methods used in 2009 as compared to the prior year DCF valuations of our reporting units.   

 42   
 The risk adjusted discount rate represents the estimated weighted-average cost of capital (WACC) for each reporting unit at the date of the annual impairment test. Each reporting unit WACC was comprised of (1) an estimated required rate of return on equity, based on publicly traded companies with business characteristics comparable to each of L-3’s reporting units, including a risk free rate of return (i.e. prevailing market yield of 4.2% on the 30 year U.S. Treasury Bond as of November 30, 2009) and an equity risk premium of 5%, and (2) the current after-tax market rate of return on L-3’s debt (which was 3.4% as of November 30, 2009), each weighted by the relative market value percentages of L-3’s equity and debt. The WACC assumptions for each reporting unit are based on a number of market inputs that are outside of our control and are updated annually to reflect changes to such market inputs as of the date of our annual goodwill impairment assessments, including: (1) changes to the estimated required rate of return on equity based on historical returns on common stock securities of publicly traded companies with business characteristics comparable to each of L-3’s reporting units and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over a two-year period, (2) changes to the risk free rate of return based on the prevailing market yield on the 30 year U.S. Treasury Bond on the date of our annual goodwill impairment assessments, and (3) changes to the market rate of return on L-3’s debt based on the prevailing yields on L-3’s publicly traded debt securities on the date of our annual goodwill impairment assessments. The 2009 equity risk premium of 5% used to determine our WACC was unchanged from the prior year.  

 The table below presents the weighted average risk adjusted discount rate assumptions used in our DCF valuation for each of our reportable segments in connection with the goodwill impairment assessments at November 30, 2009.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 As presented in the table below, L-3’s historical three-year average annual cash flow growth rates for 2009, 2008 and 2007 for our reportable segments ranged from a negative 11% to a positive 15%. The annual cash flows generated by each of our reporting units varies from year to year, and therefore, the annual cash flow growth rates do not result in linear trends, due to a number of factors. The factors that affect the level of annual cash flows in each of our reporting units include, but are not limited to: (1) variability of annual sales volume and sales growth rates, (2) increases and decreases in working capital, including customer advance payments and billings on multi-year contracts (revenue arrangements) with long-term performance periods (exceeding one year), (3) the timing of invoicing and cash collections between fiscal years from receivables due from customers on multi-year contracts (revenue arrangements) that are affected by the financing terms of individual contracts, (4) the timing of increases and decreases of select inventories procured and produced in anticipation of future product sales, which frequently overlap the ending and beginning of fiscal years, (5) the timing of the receipt of award fee and incentive fee payments from customers on contracts (revenue arrangements), (6) variability in annual cash outlays for research and development costs, (7) changes in cash outlays for capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, and (8) increases in annual sales and costs and expense volumes of a reporting unit resulting from business acquisitions. As a result of the factors discussed above and the varying sizes of our reporting units, the annual cash flow levels and growth rates at the reporting unit level tend to fluctuate significantly from year to year. The 2009 cash flow amount and the cash flow growth rate for each of the last three years for each of our reportable segments are also presented below.  

 43   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We consistently consider several factors to determine expected future annual cash flows for our reporting units, including, but not limited to historical multi-year average cash flow trends by reporting unit, as well as: (1) the DoD budget and spending priorities, (2) expansion into new markets, (3) changing conditions in existing markets for our products, systems, and services, (4) possible termination of certain government contracts, (5) expected success in new business competitions and re-competitions on existing business, and (6) anticipated operating margins and working capital requirements, which vary significantly depending on the stage of completion (early, mature, ending) of contracts (revenue arrangements). We closely monitor changes in these factors and their impact on the expected cash flow growth rates of our reporting units. In connection with our goodwill impairment assessments as of November 30, 2009, we assumed a challenging economic environment in government services and our commercial businesses, slower growth in DoD budgets and made additional assumptions that consider the factors noted above that were relevant for and specific to each of our reporting units. The DCF valuation assumes cash flows to be substantially the same in 2010 compared to 2009 for C3ISR. For Government Services, the DCF valuation assumes cash flows increase approximately 32% in 2010 compared to 2009, due primarily to working capital improvements related to the timing of payments for accounts payable and timing of collections for billed receivables. For AM&M, the DCF valuation assumes cash flows increase approximately 8% in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to higher sales volume and working capital improvements. For Electronic Systems, the DCF valuation assumes cash flows decrease approximately 8% in 2010 compared to 2009 and that 2009 cash flow levels are not achieved again until after 2012. Over the three year period beginning in 2010 through 2012, the DCF valuation assumes that cash flows will increase by an average of approximately 6% per year for C3ISR, increase by an average of approximately 2% per year for AM&M and decrease by an average of approximately 1% per year for Government Services and Electronic Systems. After 2013, our DCF valuation applied annual projected long-term cash flow growth rates of 2% for C3ISR, AM&M and Electronic Systems, and 1% for Government Services.   

 44   
 A decline in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, and a related non-cash impairment charge against earnings, if the estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. A large decline in estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

 In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations relating to our goodwill impairment assessment, we applied hypothetical decreases to the fair values of each of our reporting units. We determined that a decrease in fair value of at least 20% would be required before any reporting unit, with the exception of four, would have a carrying value in excess of its fair value. The table below presents the: (1) risk adjusted discount rates, (2) annual cash flow growth rate, (3) 2009 cash flow, (4) goodwill balance, and (5) excess fair value percentage, for each of these four reporting units. TRL Systems is included in our C3ISR reportable segment while the other three reporting units are included in our Electronic Systems reportable segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   The goodwill balance is as of November 30, 2009, our goodwill impairment testing date.   

  (2)   The excess fair value represents the percentage and dollar amount by which the fair value of a reporting unit must decline before a potential impairment is identified and would require the second step of the goodwill impairment assessment to be performed.   

  (3)   Our DCF for these reporting units assumed lower projected cash flows for 2010 as compared to 2009. In addition, our DCF valuation for these reporting units assumed that the 2009 cash flow level would not be achieved again until after 2014 and that projected cash flows would grow annually at 2.5% in 2013 and 2014 and 2% thereafter.   

  (4)   The cash flow growth rate in the table above for Undersea Warfare for 2009 and the three year average is not meaningful (NM) as the 2009 growth rate is over 1,000%    

 As noted above, the expected future cash flow growth rates for each of our reporting units are primarily based on our best estimates of future sales and operating income. The substantial majority of our reporting units are primarily dependent upon the DoD budget and spending. Historically, more than 70% of L-3’s annual sales have been generated from DoD customers. The DoD budget has not been meaningfully impacted by the current recessionary economic environment. Moreover, consistent with our discussion of industry considerations under “Key Performance Measures” beginning on page 35, we anticipate the defense budget and spending priorities will continue to focus on areas that match several of L-3’s core competencies. However, there can be no assurance that our current estimates and assumptions will result in the projected cash flow outcomes due to a number of factors, including an economic environment that is more challenging than we anticipated or the DoD budget failing to continue to grow as expected.  

 Pension Plan and Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations. The obligations for our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans and the related annual costs of employee benefits are calculated based on several long-term assumptions, including discount rates for employee benefit liabilities, rates of return on plan assets, expected annual rates for salary increases for employee participants in the case of pension plans, and expected annual increases in the costs of medical and other health care benefits in the case of postretirement benefit obligations. These long-term assumptions are subject to revision based on changes in interest rates, financial market conditions, expected versus actual returns on plan assets, participant mortality rates and other actuarial assumptions, including future rates of salary increases, benefit formulas and levels, and rates of increase in the costs of benefits. Changes in the assumptions, if significant, can materially affect the amount of annual net periodic benefit costs recognized in our results of operations from one year to the next, the liabilities for the pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, and our annual cash requirements to fund these plans. The changes we made to our expected long-term assumptions for 2010 compared to the assumptions for 2009 are not expected to significantly impact our 2010 pension expense compared to 2009. Our pension expense for 2010 is expected to decrease by    

 45   
 $25 million to $148 million from $173 million in 2009, primarily due to lower amortization of actuarial losses. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Pension Plans” on page 56 for a further discussion of our estimated 2010 pension expense.  

 Discount rates are used to determine the present value of our pension obligations and also affect the amount of pension expense in any given period. The discount rate assumptions used to determine our pension and postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were based on a hypothetical AA yield curve represented by a series of annualized individual discount rates. Each bond issue underlying the yield curve is required to have a rating of AA or better by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and/or Standard & Poor’s. The resulting discount rate reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the yield curve. For a sensitivity analysis projecting the impact of a change in the discount rate on our projected benefit obligation and pension expense, see “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Pension Plans” on page 56.  

 Valuation of Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities. At December 31, 2009, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $25 million, net of deferred tax assets of $21 million for loss carryforwards and $14 million for tax credit carryforwards which are subject to various limitations and will expire if unused within their respective carryforward periods. Deferred income taxes are determined separately for each of our tax-paying entities in each tax jurisdiction. The future realization of our deferred income tax assets ultimately depends on our ability to generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gains) within the carryback and carryforward periods available under the tax law and, to a lesser extent, our ability to execute successful tax planning strategies. Based on our estimates of the amounts and timing of future taxable income and tax planning strategies, we believe that L-3 will be able to realize its deferred tax assets. A change in the ability of our operations to continue to generate future taxable income, or our ability to implement desired tax planning strategies, could affect our ability to realize the future tax deductions underlying our deferred tax assets, and require us to provide a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. The recognition of a valuation allowance would result in a reduction to net income and, if significant, could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial position in any given period.  

 Liabilities for Pending and Threatened Litigation. We are subject to litigation, government investigations, proceedings, claims or assessments and various contingent liabilities incidental to our business or assumed in connection with certain business acquisitions. In accordance with the accounting standards for contingencies, we accrue a charge for a loss contingency when we believe it is both probable that a liability has been incurred, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If the loss is within a range of specified amounts, the most likely amount is accrued, and if no amount within the range represents a better estimate we accrue the minimum amount in the range. Generally, we record the loss contingency at the amount we expect to pay to resolve the contingency and the amount is generally not discounted to the present value. Amounts recoverable under insurance contracts are recorded as assets when recovery is deemed probable. Contingencies that might result in a gain are not recognized until realizable. Changes to the amount of the estimated loss, or resolution of one or more contingencies could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  

 Valuation of Long-Lived Assets. In addition to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets recognized in connection with our business acquisitions, our long-lived assets also include property, plant and equipment, capitalized software development costs for software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, and certain long-term investments. As of December 31, 2009, the consolidated carrying values of our property, plant and equipment were $854 million, capitalized software development costs were $48 million and certain long-term investments were $24 million. As of December 31, 2009, the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment represented 6% of total assets and the carrying value of our capitalized software development costs and certain long-term investments each represented less than 1% of total assets. We review the valuation of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value or net realizable value expected to result from the asset’s use and eventual disposition. We use a variety of factors to assess valuation, depending upon the asset. Long-lived assets are evaluated based upon the expected period the asset will be utilized,    

 46   
 and other factors depending on the asset, including estimated future sales, profits and related cash flows, estimated product acceptance and product life cycles, changes in technology and customer demand, and the performance of invested companies and joint ventures, as well as volatility in external markets for investments. Changes in estimates and judgments on any of these factors could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.  

 Results of Operations  

 The following information should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements. Our results of operations for the periods presented are affected, significantly in some periods, by our business acquisitions. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our business acquisitions.  

 Consolidated Results of Operations  

 The table below provides selected financial data for L-3 for the years ended December 31, 2009 compared with 2008 and 2008 compared with 2007.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   The year ended December 31, 2008 includes: (1) a gain of $12 million ($7 million after income taxes, or $0.06 per diluted share) related to the Product Line Divestiture Gain, and (2) a non-cash impairment charge of $28 million ($17 million after income taxes, or $0.14 per diluted share) related to the Impairment Charge, both recorded in the second quarter of 2008. Together with the Litigation Gain described in Note (2) below, these items are referred to as the Q2 2008 Items.   

  (2)   The Litigation Gain represents a June 27, 2008 decision by the U.S Court of Appeals vacating an adverse 2006 jury verdict. In the second quarter of 2008, we recorded a gain of $133 million ($81 million after income taxes, or $0.66 per diluted share), comprised of the reversal of a $126 million current liability for pending and threatened litigation and the reversal of $7 million of related accrued interest.    

 2009 Compared with 2008  

 Net sales: For the year ended December 31, 2009, consolidated net sales increased by 5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, driven primarily by strong growth in the C3ISR reportable segment and modest growth in the Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M) and Electronic Systems reportable segments. These sales increases were partially offset by a decrease in the Government Services reportable segment caused primarily by    

 47   
 lower linguist sales. The increase in consolidated net sales from acquired businesses, net of divestitures, was $187 million, or 1%.  

 Sales from services, which include services performed by businesses primarily in our Government Services, AM&M and C3ISR reportable segments, as well as marine services and simulation & training within our Electronic Systems reportable segment, increased by $328 million to $8,099 million, representing approximately 52% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $7,771 million, or 52% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in service sales was primarily due to organic sales growth in ISR systems, systems field support services, information technology (IT) support services and marine systems. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in Iraq-related linguist services, lower volume for contract field services (CFS) and reduced subcontractor pass-through sales for systems and software engineering and sustainment (SSES) services.  

 Sales from products, primarily for our Electronic Systems and C3ISR reportable segments, increased by $386 million to $7,516 million, representing approximately 48% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $7,130 million, or approximately 48% of consolidated net sales, for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in product sales was primarily due to growth in C3ISR products and several areas in the Electronic Systems reportable segment primarily for EO/IR and microwave products. See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of our sales growth.  

 Operating income and operating margin: Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009, decreased by $29 million, or 2%, to $1,656 million from $1,685 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by $79 million ($48 million after income taxes, or $0.41 per diluted share) because of higher pension expense. In addition, the year ended December 31, 2008 included a net gain of $110 million as a result of the Q2 2008 Items.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2009, operating margin decreased by 70 basis points to 10.6% compared to 11.3% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Q2 2008 Items increased consolidated operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 by 70 basis points. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, consolidated operating margin would have been 10.6% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 50 basis points due to higher margins, primarily for the C3ISR reportable segment and certain businesses within the Electronic Systems reportable segment. This increase was offset by higher pension expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, which reduced operating margin by 50 basis points. See segment results below for additional discussion of segment operating margin.  

 Net interest expense and other income: Net interest expense and other income for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by $8 million, or 3%, primarily due to a $10 million debt retirement charge related to the redemption of our $750 million 75/8% Senior Subordinated Notes on November 2, 2009, and the $7 million of accrued interest that was reversed during 2008 in connection with the Litigation Gain. These increases were partially offset by lower interest expense and income from equity method investments.  

 Effective income tax rate: The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by 40 basis points to 34.3% compared to the same period in 2008. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 was 34.3%.  

 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and income from continuing operations: For the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, diluted EPS from continuing operations increased by $0.18, or 2%, to $7.61 from $7.43 and income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 decreased by $17 million to $901 million from $918 million. The Q2 2008 Items increased diluted EPS from continuing operations by $0.58 for the year ended December 31, 2008. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, diluted EPS from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 would have increased by $0.76, or 11%, to $7.61 from $6.85 and income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 would have increased by $54 million, or 6%, to $901 million from $847 million.   

 48   
 Diluted earnings per share and net income attributable to L-3: For the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, diluted EPS increased by $0.02 to $7.61 from $7.59 and net income attributable to L-3 decreased by $37 million to $901 million from $938 million. The year ended December 31, 2008 included a gain on the sale of METI of $33 million ($20 million after income taxes, or $0.16 per diluted share).  

 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding: Diluted weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by 5.0 million shares, or 4%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was due to repurchases of our common stock in connection with our share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors, partially offset by additional shares issued in connection with various employee stock-based compensation programs and contributions to employee savings plans made in common stock.  

 2008 Compared with 2007  

 Net sales: For the year ended December 31, 2008, consolidated net sales increased by 7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, driven primarily by growth in all business segments except for Government Services, which decreased because of lower linguist services. The increase in consolidated net sales from acquired businesses, net of divestitures, was $265 million, or 2%.  

 Sales from services increased by $382 million to $7,771 million, representing approximately 52% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $7,389 million, or 53% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in service sales was primarily due to organic sales growth in Government Services, excluding lower linguist services, and ISR systems, networked communications systems, base and aircraft support services and several areas in the Electronic Systems reportable segment.  

 Sales from products increased by $558 million to $7,130 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $6,572 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in product sales was primarily due to organic sales growth in aircraft modernization, networked communications systems, and several product areas in the Electronic Systems reportable segment. See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of our sales growth.  

 Operating income and operating margin: For the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, consolidated operating income increased by $237 million, and consolidated operating margin increased to 11.3% from 10.4%. The Q2 2008 Items increased consolidated operating income by $110 million and operating margin by 70 basis points. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, consolidated operating margin increased by 20 basis points to 10.6% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 10.4% for the year ended December 31, 2007. See segment results below for additional discussion of segment operating income and margin results.  

 Net interest expense and other income: Net interest expense and other income for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by $21 million, or 7%, compared to December 31, 2007 due to the reversal of $7 million of accrued interest during the 2008 second quarter in connection with the Litigation Gain. Lower interest rates on our outstanding variable rate debt also reduced interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007.  

 Effective income tax rate: The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by 60 basis points compared to the same period in 2007. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, the effective tax rate decreased by 100 basis points. The tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 included a reversal of previously accrued amounts of $18 million, or $0.15 per share, primarily related to the completion of examinations of the 2004 and 2005 U.S. Federal income tax returns, and certain state and foreign tax accruals. The reversal of previously accrued amounts during the year ended December 31, 2007 was $12 million, or $0.10 per share.  

 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and income from continuing operations: For the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, diluted EPS from continuing operations increased to $7.43 from $5.86 and income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 increased to $918 million from $745 million. The Q2 Items increased diluted EPS from continuing operations by $0.58 for the    

 49   
 year ended December 31, 2008. Excluding the Q2 2008 Items, diluted EPS from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008, would have increased by $0.99, or 17%, to $6.85 and income from continuing operations attributable to L-3 would have increased by $102 million, or 14%, to $847 million.  

 Diluted earnings per share and net income attributable to L-3: For the year ended December 31, 2008, diluted EPS increased to $7.59 and net income attributable to L-3 increased to $938 million, which included a gain on the sale of METI of $33 million ($20 million after income taxes, or $0.16 per diluted share).  

 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding: Diluted weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by 3.8 million shares, or 3%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease was due to repurchases of our common stock, partially offset by additional shares issued in connection with various employee stock-based compensation programs and contributions to employee savings plans made in common stock.  

 Reportable Segment Results of Operations  

 The table below presents selected data by reportable segment reconciled to consolidated totals. See Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements for our reportable segment data.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   As a result of certain re-alignments in our management and organization structure as discussed in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements, sales of $14.5 million and $11.7 million and operating income of $4.6 million and $3.0 million were reclassified from the C3ISR reportable segment to the Government Services reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, and sales of $15.2 million and $21.2 million and operating income of $2.2 million and $3.4 million were reclassified from the C3ISR reportable segment to the AM&M reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007.     

 50   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 C3ISR  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2009 Compared with 2008  

 C3ISR net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 22% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily due to increased demand and new business from the DoD for airborne ISR and networked communication systems for manned and unmanned platforms.  

 C3ISR operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased 41% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating margin increased by 150 basis points. Higher sales volume, improved contract performance and a more favorable sales mix for airborne ISR and networked communication systems increased operating margin by 250 basis points. These increases were partially offset by an increase in pension expense of $32 million, which reduced operating margin by 100 basis points.  

 2008 Compared with 2007  

 C3ISR net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 11% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 driven by higher sales volume of $260 million primarily for continued demand and new contracts from the DoD for airborne ISR and networked communications systems for manned and unmanned platforms.  

 C3ISR operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 9% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Operating margin decreased by 30 basis points. Higher costs for international airborne ISR systems reduced operating margin by 140 basis points. This decrease was partially offset by higher sales volume for airborne ISR systems and networked communications systems for the DoD and lower development costs for new secure communications products.  

 Government Services  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2009 Compared with 2008  

 Government Services net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by 4% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Sales declined due to: (1) lower sales of Iraq-related linguist services of $226 million, (2) reduced subcontractor pass-through sales volume of $56 million related to task order renewals for U.S. Army systems and software engineering and sustainment (SSES) services which migrated to a contract where L-3 is not a    

 51   
 prime contractor, (3) $37 million of lower sales volume due to the timing of deliveries for engineering support services to the DoD, and (4) $15 million of lower volume for intelligence support services for the U.S. Army and U.S. Government agencies. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $62 million primarily for IT support services for USSOCOM and the executive branch of the U.S. Government due to higher volume on new and existing contracts. Additionally, the increase in net sales from acquired businesses was $110 million, or 3%.  

 Government Services operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by 7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating margin decreased by 40 basis points. Lower margins on select contract renewals during 2009 and higher profit margins on certain fixed price contracts during 2008 reduced operating margin by 50 basis points for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Acquired businesses also reduced operating margin by 10 basis points. These decreases were partially offset by a decline in sales of lower margin linguist services, which increased operating margin by 20 basis points.  

 2008 Compared with 2007  

 Government Services net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by 1% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. A decline in sales of $319 million for linguist services was partially offset by an increase in sales of $227 million primarily for IT and software engineering solution services, training and other support services to the DoD. Total linguist-Iraq sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $399 million. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses, net of divestitures, was $64 million, or 1%.  

 Government Services operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 50 basis points. Operating margin increased by 10 basis points because of a decline in lower margin linguist sales. Higher sales for business areas other than linguist services and lower indirect costs as a percentage of sales increased operating margin by 80 basis points. These increases were partially offset by (1) 20 basis points due to lower sale prices on certain new contracts and (2) 20 basis points due to a $4 million litigation accrual for costs to settle a claim and $4 million for severance and other costs related to business realignment and consolidation activities.  

 Aircraft Modernization and Maintenance (AM&M)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2009 Compared with 2008  

 AM&M net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 6% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in sales was due to: (1) $217 million of higher sales volume primarily due to higher demand from existing contracts for systems field support services for U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force rotary and fixed wing training aircraft and U.S. Special Operations Forces logistics support and higher sales for new contracts, and (2) $61 million of higher sales for Joint Cargo Aircraft (JCA). These increases were partially offset by sales volume declines of $124 million for contract field services (CFS) as fewer task orders were received because of more competitors on the current contract that began on October 1, 2008.  

 AM&M operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 remained substantially the same compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating margin decreased by 50 basis points. Sales volume declines for CFS reduced operating margin by 40 basis points. Operating margins decreased by 30 basis points primarily due to cost increases on international aircraft modernization contracts. Higher pension expense reduced operating margin by 10 basis points. These decreases were partially offset by $10 million of charges to adjust litigation accruals during 2008 that did not recur in 2009, which increased operating margin by 30 basis points.   

 52   
 2008 Compared with 2007  

 AM&M net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in sales volume was primarily driven by $109 million in higher systems field support services and $118 million for JCA. These increases were partially offset by lower sales volume of $44 million for the Canadian Maritime Helicopter program and lower aircraft modernization sales of $59 million for international customers and head-of-state aircraft for foreign government customers.  

 AM&M operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by 3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased by 70 basis points. The year ended December 31, 2008 included $10 million of litigation accruals for costs to settle certain claims, which reduced operating margin by 30 basis points. Operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 also declined by another 110 basis points due to a change in sales mix, primarily sales volume for JCA and lower international sales. These decreases were partially offset by 70 basis points because of improved contract performance.  

 Electronic Systems  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2009 Compared with 2008  

 Electronic Systems net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, reflecting higher sales volume of: (1) $91 million for EO/IR products, primarily due to demand and deliveries on new and existing contracts, (2) $57 million for microwave products primarily due to deliveries of mobile and ground-based satellite communications systems and spare parts for the U.S. military, communication services primarily to the DoD, and higher sales volume for tactical signal intelligence systems, and (3) $33 million primarily for deliveries of tactical quiet generators for mobile electric power for the U.S. Armed Services, and new and follow-on contracts for shipboard electronics and power distribution, conditioning and conversion products primarily to the U.S. Navy. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses, net of divestitures, was $78 million, or 1%, and pertains mostly to the Electro-Optical Systems (EOS) business acquired on April 21, 2008, and to Chesapeake Sciences Corporation acquired on January 30, 2009. These sales increases were partially offset by decreases of: (1) $59 million for aviation products as a result of reduced demand from commercial customers caused by the global economic recession, and (2) $36 million for security & detection and undersea warfare due to delays in receipt of expected orders and timing of deliveries.  

 Electronic Systems operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 4% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating margin of 12.1% for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by 10 basis points compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Excluding the Product Line Divestiture Gain ($12 million) and Impairment Charge ($28 million), operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by 20 basis points compared to operating margin of 12.3% for the year ended December 31, 2008. An increase in pension expense of $42 million reduced operating margin by 80 basis points. Operating margin increased by 40 basis points primarily due to higher sales volume and favorable sales mix for EO/IR products and power & control systems. Operating margin increased by 10 basis points due to $6 million of charges to adjust litigation accruals in 2008 that did not recur in 2009 and acquired businesses increased operating margin by 10 basis points.   

 53   
 2008 Compared with 2007  

 Electronic Systems net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 12% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 reflecting higher sales volume of (1) $118 million for power & control systems mostly for commercial shipbuilding, and power generation, distribution, conditioning and conversion products primarily for the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy, (2) $86 million for microwave products due to higher demand and deliveries of mobile satellite communications systems, satellite and space components, and communication services primarily to the DoD, (3) $65 million primarily for combat propulsion systems due to new and existing contracts, aviation products primarily related to spare parts for the U.S. military and data recorders for aviation and maritime markets, and acoustic undersea warfare products and ocean mapping related to new and existing contracts, (4) $56 million for precision engagement primarily related to new contracts and increased shipments on existing contracts for situational awareness systems and fuzing products, (5) $54 million for EO/IR products primarily due to increased demand and deliveries from new and existing contracts, and (6) $41 million for simulation & training primarily related to new contracts and timing of deliveries on existing contracts. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $36 million for displays primarily due to timing of contractual deliveries and contracts completed or nearing completion. The increase in net sales from acquired businesses, net of divestitures, was $201 million, or 4%.  

 Electronic Systems operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 14% compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The year ended December 31, 2008 included a gain of $12 million for the Product Line Divestiture Gain and a non-cash Impairment Charge of $28 million. Excluding these two items, operating income was $661.1 million and operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 increased 50 basis points to 12.3%. Operating margin increased by 70 basis points due to improved contract performance and higher sales across several business areas. These increases were partially offset by 10 basis points due to a $6 million litigation accrual for costs to settle a claim and 10 basis points because of a $7 million gain in the 2007 third quarter from the settlement of a third party claim that did not recur.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Anticipated Sources and Uses of Cash Flow  

 Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow generated from operations. As of December 31, 2009, we also had $968 million of borrowings available under our Revolving Credit Facility, after reductions of $32 million for outstanding letters of credit, subject to certain conditions. Our Revolving Credit Facility matures on October 23, 2012. We currently believe that our cash from operating activities together with our cash on hand and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, defined benefit plan contributions, commitments, contingencies, research and development expenditures, business acquisitions (depending on the size), contingent purchase price payments on previous business acquisitions, program and other discretionary investments, interest payments, income tax payments, L-3 Holdings’ dividends and share repurchases.  

 Our business may not continue to generate cash flow at current levels, and it is possible that currently anticipated improvements may not be achieved. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may be required to reduce costs and expenses, sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing, which we may not be able to do on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments or to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the U.S. defense industry and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.  

 Holders of our $700 million Convertible Contingent Debt Securities may require us to repurchase them in whole or in part at a cash repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and additional interest, if any) through the exercise of a “put” option on February 1, 2011. Furthermore, the first scheduled maturity of our existing debt is our $400 million 61/8% senior subordinated notes maturing on July 15, 2013.   

 54   
 On February 18, 2010, we entered into an agreement to acquire all the outstanding common stock of a business for approximately $613 million. We anticipate completing this acquisition in the second quarter of 2010, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. We expect to fund the purchase price with cash on hand.  

 For a discussion of our recent debt refinancing during the fourth quarter of 2009, which improved our debt maturity profile and reduced our outstanding debt balance, see “Financing Activities-Debt” on page 58.  

 Balance Sheet  

 Billed receivables decreased by $77 million to $1,149 million at December 31, 2009 from $1,226 million at December 31, 2008 due to collections for government services, power and control systems, marine services and combat propulsion systems. These decreases were partially offset by: (1) higher sales primarily for JCA and networked communications, (2) $21 million for acquired billed receivables, and (3) $9 million primarily for foreign currency translation adjustments.  

 Contracts in process increased $110 million to $2,377 million at December 31, 2009, from $2,267 million at December 31, 2008. The increase included $7 million for foreign currency translation adjustments, $24 million primarily for acquired contracts-in-process, and $79 million from:  

    •   Increases of $41 million in unbilled contract receivables primarily due to sales exceeding billings for ISR systems, systems field support services and precision engagement, partially offset by billings for undersea warfare products and government services; and   

    •   Increases of $38 million in inventoried contract costs across several business areas, primarily propulsion systems, microwave, networked communications and EO/IR products to support customer demand.    

 L-3’s receivables days sales outstanding (DSO) was 66 at December 31, 2009, compared with 69 at December 31, 2008. We calculate our DSO by dividing: (1) our aggregate end of period billed receivables and net unbilled contract receivables, by (2) our trailing 12 month sales adjusted, on a pro forma basis, to include sales from business acquisitions and exclude sales from business divestitures that we completed as of the end of the period, multiplied by the number of calendar days in the trailing 12 month period (365 days at December 31, 2009 and 366 days at December 31, 2008). Our trailing 12 month pro forma sales were $15,621 million at December 31, 2009 and $14,976 million at December 31, 2008.  

 Goodwill increased by $161 million to $8,190 million at December 31, 2009 from $8,029 million at December 31, 2008. The table below presents the changes in goodwill allocated to our reportable segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   As a result of certain re-alignments in our management and organization structure as discussed in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements, $17 million of goodwill was reclassified from the C3ISR reportable segment to the Government Services reportable segment, and $17 million of goodwill was reclassified from the C3ISR reportable segment to the AM&M reportable segment.   

  (2)   The increase in goodwill from foreign currency translation adjustments was due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar during the year ended December 31, 2009 against the functional currencies of L-3’s foreign subsidiaries, primarily in Canada.    

 For the year ended December 31, 2009, the decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of invoices received and payments made for purchases from third-party vendors and subcontractors. The decrease in accrued employment costs was due to the timing of payroll dates and payments for salaries and wages. The decrease in advance payments and billings in excess of costs incurred was primarily due to the liquidation of balances on contracts for marine power and control systems and simulation & training, partially offset by an increase due to    

 55   
 performance based billings for certain aircraft modernization and telemetry and advanced technology contracts. The increase in other liabilities was due to higher non-current income taxes payable primarily for uncertain income tax positions. Non-current deferred income tax liabilities increased primarily due to tax amortization of certain goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets.  

 Pension Plans  

 L-3 maintains defined benefit pension plans covering employees at certain of its businesses and approximately 22% of its employees. At December 31, 2009, L-3’s projected benefit obligation, which includes accumulated benefits plus the incremental benefits attributable to projected future salary increases for covered employees, was $1,964 million and exceeded the fair value of L-3’s pension plan assets of $1,304 million by $660 million. At December 31, 2008, L-3’s projected benefit obligation was $1,722 million and exceeded the fair value of L-3’s pension plan assets of $1,064 million by $658 million. The $2 million increase in our unfunded status was due to pension expense of $173 million for 2009, which was partially offset by (1) a decrease of $100 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss comprised of $57 million of amortization of net actuarial losses and prior service costs as a component of pension expense during 2009 and a $43 million net actuarial gain experienced in 2009, (2) employer pension contributions of $67 million and (3) a decrease of $4 million for foreign currency translation adjustments.  

 The 2009 decrease of $43 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the net actuarial gain was primarily due to better than expected returns on our pension plan assets during 2009. The actuarial gains and losses that our pension plans experience are not recognized in pension expense in the year incurred, but rather are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and amortized to pension expense in future periods over the estimated average remaining service periods of the covered employees. See Note 20 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Our pension expense for 2009 was $173 million. We currently expect pension expense for 2010 to decrease $25 million to approximately $148 million primarily due to the actual return on plan assets for 2009, which was a gain of $212 million, or 20%. The decrease in 2010 pension expense is comprised of a $37 million decrease for lower amortization of net losses and higher expected return on plan assets, partially offset by a $12 million increase primarily for higher service and interest costs. The $37 million decrease is primarily due to the actual return on L-3’s plan assets in 2009 of $212 million discussed above and the $12 million increase is primarily due to the reduction in our weighted average discount rate from 6.49% at December 31, 2008 to 6.26% at December 31, 2009.  

 Our expected pension expense for 2010 may change when finalized due to a number of factors, including the effect of any future business acquisitions for which we assume liabilities for pension benefits, changes in headcount at our businesses that sponsor pension plans, actual pension plan contributions and changes (if any) to our pension assumptions for 2010, including the discount rate, expected long-term return on plan assets and salary increases.  

 Our contributions for 2009 were $67 million and we currently expect to contribute approximately $140 million to our pension plans in 2010. Actual 2010 pension contributions could be affected by L-3’s actual net cash from operating activities for 2010, as well as changes in the funded status of our pension plans during 2010. A substantial portion of our pension plan contributions for L-3’s businesses that are U.S. Government contractors are recoverable as allowable indirect contract costs at amounts generally equal to the annual pension contributions.  

 Our projected benefit obligation and annual pension expense are significantly affected by our discount rate assumption. For example, a reduction to the discount rate of 25 basis points would increase our projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2009 by approximately $65 million and our estimated pension expense for 2010 by approximately $9 million. Conversely, an increase to the discount rate of 25 basis points would have decreased our projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2009 by approximately $62 million, and our estimated pension expense for 2010 by approximately $8 million.   

 56   
 Statement of Cash Flows  

 The table below provides a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods indicated.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Operating Activities  

 2009 Compared with 2008. We generated $1,407 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $20 million compared with $1,387 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase was due to less net cash used of $61 million for changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily for billed receivables, contracts in process, other current liabilities (mainly the Litigation Gain) and pension and postretirement benefits, partially offset by more cash used for changes in accounts payable, accrued employment costs, accrued expenses, and advance payments and billings in excess of costs incurred. This increase was partially offset by: (1) a decrease in net income of $38 million, and (2) lower non-cash expenses of $3 million, primarily due to lower deferred income taxes. The net cash used from changes in operating assets and liabilities is further discussed above under “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Balance Sheet” on page 55.  

 2008 Compared with 2007. We generated $1,387 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of $117 million compared with $1,270 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase was due to (1) an increase in net income of $195 million, and (2) higher non-cash expenses of $62 million, primarily due to higher deferred income taxes and the non-cash Impairment Charge, partially offset by (3) $140 million of more cash used for changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily for other current liabilities (mainly the Litigation Gain) and income taxes.  

 Interest Payments. Our cash from operating activities included interest payments on debt of $237 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, $267 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, and $280 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our interest expense also included amortization of deferred debt issue costs and bond discounts and deferred gains on terminated interest rate swap agreements, which are non-cash items.  

 Investing Activities  

 During 2009, we used $272 million of cash primarily to: (1) acquire a business and pay the remaining contractual purchase price for a business acquisition completed prior to January 1, 2009 for a total of $90 million, and (2) make $186 million of capital expenditures.  

 During 2008, we used $283 million of cash primarily to: (1) acquire four businesses discussed under “Business Acquisitions”, (2) pay earnouts and the remaining contractual purchase price for certain business acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2008, and (3) increase our ownership interest in METI by 5% from 80% to 85%. We also used $218 million of cash for capital expenditures. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 included a $63 million source of cash in the aggregate from the sale of METI on October 8, 2008 and the sale of the PMD product line during the second quarter.  

 During 2007, we used $235 million of cash for business acquisitions. We paid $207 million in connection with our 2007 business acquisitions discussed under “Business Acquisitions.” We also paid $17 million for earnouts and $11 million primarily for the remaining contractual purchase prices, for the Crestview and TRL business acquisitions made prior to January 1, 2007. We also used $157 million for capital expenditures.   

 57   
  Financing Activities  

 Debt  

 At December 31, 2009, total outstanding debt was $4,112 million, of which, $996 million were senior notes and $3,116 million were senior subordinated notes, compared to $4,493 million at December 31, 2008, all of which were comprised of senior subordinated notes. At December 31, 2009, borrowings available under our revolving credit facility were $968 million, after reduction for outstanding letters of credit of $32 million. We also have $328 million of other standby letters of credit at December 31, 2009, that may be drawn upon in the event we do not perform on certain of our contractual requirements. There were no borrowings outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2009. Our outstanding debt matures between July 15, 2013 and August 1, 2035. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the components of our long-term debt at December 31, 2009.  

 Debt Issuances and Repayments. On October 2, 2009, L-3 Communications issued $1 billion in aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes. The Senior Notes have an effective interest rate of 5.25% and were issued at a discount of $4 million. Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 2010. The net cash proceeds from this offering amounted to approximately $987 million after deducting the discounts, commissions and estimated expenses, and were used, together with cash on hand, to redeem L-3 Communications’ outstanding $750 million 75/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due in 2012 on November 2, 2009 and to repay L-3 Communications’ outstanding $650 million term loan on October 7, 2009. In connection with the redemption of the 2002 Notes, we recorded a debt retirement charge in the fourth quarter of 2009 of approximately $10 million ($6 million after income tax, or $0.05 per diluted share).  

 On October 23, 2009, L-3 Communications replaced its $1 billion revolving credit facility that was scheduled to expire on March 9, 2010, with a new $1 billion three-year Revolving Credit Facility maturing on October 23, 2012.  

 Credit Ratings. Our credit ratings as of February 2010 are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Agency credit ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agency. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency’s rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency to rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims-paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to evaluate a company’s overall financial strength. The ratings issued on L-3 Communications or its subsidiaries by any of these agencies are announced publicly and are available from the agencies. Our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted by a downgrade in one or more of our debt ratings. If this were to occur, we could incur higher borrowing costs.  

 Debt Covenants and Other Provisions. The Revolving Credit Facility, Senior Notes and senior subordinated notes contain financial and/or other restrictive covenants. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a description of our debt and related financial covenants, including dividend payment and share repurchase restrictions and cross default provisions. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with our financial and other restrictive covenants.  

 Guarantees. The borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by L-3 Holdings and by substantially all of the material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of L-3 Communications on an unsecured senior basis. The payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured senior basis, jointly and severally, by L-3 Communications’ material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries that guarantee any of our other indebtedness. The payment of    

 58   
 principal and premium, if any, and interest on the senior subordinated notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured senior subordinated basis, jointly and severally, by L-3 Communications’ material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries that guarantee any of our other indebtedness. The payment of principal and premium, if any, and interest on the CODES are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured senior subordinated basis, jointly and severally, by certain of L-3 Holdings’ wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries.  

 Subordination. The guarantees of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Senior Notes rank senior to the guarantees of the senior subordinated notes and the CODES and rank pari passu with each other. The guarantees of the senior subordinated notes and CODES rank pari passu with each other and are junior to the guarantees of the Revolving Credit Facility and Senior Notes.  

 Equity  

 During 2009 and 2008, L-3 Holdings’ Board of Directors authorized the following quarterly cash dividends:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 On February 2, 2010, L-3 Holdings announced that its Board of Directors had increased L-3 Holdings’ regular quarterly cash dividend by 14% to $0.40 per share, payable on March 15, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 1, 2010.  

 On February 1, 2010, the number of holders of L-3 Holdings’ common stock was approximately 66,000. On February 25, 2010, the closing price of L-3 Holdings common stock, as reported by the NYSE, was $91.05 per share.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2009, L-3 repurchased $505 million or 7.0 million shares of its common stock compared to $794 million or 8.5 million shares of its common stock for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $500 million, or 5.2 million shares of its common stock for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

 59   
 Contractual Obligations  

 The table below presents our estimated total contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, including the amounts expected to be paid or settled for each of the periods indicated below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Represents principal amount of long-term debt and only includes scheduled principal payments.   

  (2)   As of July 29, 2009, the CODES are convertible into cash and shares of L-3 Holdings’ common stock based on a conversion rate of 9.9862 shares of L-3 Holdings common stock per one thousand dollars in principal amount of the CODES (equivalent to a conversion price of $100.14 per share). The conversion feature of the CODES may require L-3 Holdings to settle the $700 million principal amount with the holders of the CODES if L-3 Holdings common stock price is more than 120% of the then current conversion price (currently $120.17) for a specified period, and if the settlement amount exceeds the principal amount, the excess will be settled in cash or stock or a combination thereof, at our option. At any time on or after February 1, 2011, the CODES are subject to redemption at the option of L-3 Holdings, in whole or in part, at a cash redemption price (plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and additional interest, if any) equal to 100% of the principal amount of the CODES. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the CODES, including conditions for conversion and contingent interest features. L-3 Holdings stock price on February 25, 2010 was $91.05.   

  (3)   Represents expected interest payments on L-3’s long-term debt balance as of December 31, 2009 using the stated interest rate on our fixed rate debt, assuming that current borrowings remain outstanding to the contractual maturity date.   

  (4)   Non-cancelable operating leases are presented net of estimated sublease rental income.   

  (5)   Represents open purchase orders at December 31, 2009 for amounts expected to be paid for goods or services that are legally binding.   

  (6)   Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of workers compensation and deferred compensation for the years ending December 31, 2011 and thereafter and also include pension and postretirement benefit plan contributions that we expect to pay in 2010.   

  (7)   Our pension and postretirement benefit plan funding policy is generally to contribute in accordance with cost accounting standards that affect government contractors, subject to the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereon. For 2010, we expect to contribute approximately $140 million to our pension plans and approximately $13 million to our postretirement benefit plans. Due to the current uncertainty of the amounts used to compute our expected pension and postretirement benefit plan funding, we believe it is not practicable to reasonably estimate such future funding for periods in excess of one year and we may decide or be required to contribute more than we expect to our pension and postretirement plans.   

  (8)   Excludes all income tax obligations, a portion of which represents unrecognized tax benefits in connection with uncertain tax positions taken, or expected to be taken on our income tax returns as of December 31, 2009 since we cannot determine the time period of future tax consequences. For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 17 to our audited consolidated financial statements.     

 60   
 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 The table below presents our estimated total contingent commitments and other guarantees at December 31, 2009, including the amounts expected to be paid or settled for each of the periods indicated below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Represents outstanding letters of credit with financial institutions covering performance and financial guarantees per contractual requirements with certain customers. These letters of credit may be drawn upon in the event of L-3’s nonperformance.   

  (2)   Represents the minimum guarantees made by L-3 or lessee (i) under the purchase option for certain operating leases in which the lease renewal is not exercised and (ii) for 50% of certain bank debt related to a joint venture arrangement (see Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a description of these guarantees).   

  (3)   Represents potential additional contingent purchase payments for business acquisitions that are contingent upon the post-acquisition financial performance or certain other performance conditions of the acquired businesses in accordance with the contractual purchase agreement.    

 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  

 We are engaged in providing products and services under contracts with the U.S. Government and, to a lesser degree, under foreign government contracts, some of which are funded by the U.S. Government. All such contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements, and, periodically, agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether such contracts were and are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. Under U.S. Government procurement regulations, an indictment by a federal grand jury could result in the suspension for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts. A conviction could result in debarment from contracting with the federal government for a specified term. Additionally, in the event that U.S. Government budget and expenditures for products and services of the type we manufacture and provide are reduced, there may be a reduction in our sales volume. We are currently cooperating with the U.S. Government on several investigations, none of which we anticipate will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 We continually assess our obligations with respect to applicable environmental protection laws. While it is difficult to determine the timing and ultimate cost that we will incur to comply with these laws, based upon available internal and external assessments, with respect to those environmental loss contingencies of which we are aware, we believe that even without considering potential insurance recoveries, if any, there are no environmental loss contingencies that, in the aggregate, would be material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also, we have been periodically subject to litigation, government investigations, proceedings, claims or assessments and various contingent liabilities incidental to our business. We accrue for these contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For a description of our legal proceedings and contingencies, see Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements.   

 61   
 Derivative Financial Instruments and Other Market Risk  

 Included in our derivative financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts. All of our derivative financial instruments that are sensitive to market risk are entered into for purposes other than trading.  

 Interest Rate Risk. Our Revolving Credit Facility is subject to variable interest and is therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. The interest rates on the Senior Notes, senior subordinated notes, and CODES are fixed-rate and are not affected by changes in interest rates. Additional data on our debt obligations and our applicable borrowing spreads included in the interest rates we would pay on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, if any, are provided in Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our U.S. and foreign businesses enter into contracts with customers, subcontractors or vendors that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. To protect the functional currency equivalent cash flows associated with certain of these contracts, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, which are generally designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2009, the notional value of foreign currency forward contracts was $352 million and the net fair value of these contracts was an asset of $6 million. The notional values of our foreign currency forward contracts with maturities ranging through 2014 and thereafter are presented in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Backlog and Orders  

 We define funded backlog as the value of funded orders received from customers, less the cumulative amount of sales recognized on such orders. We define funded orders as the value of contract awards received from the U.S. Government, for which the U.S. Government has appropriated funds, plus the value of contract awards and orders received from customers other than the U.S. Government. The table below presents our funded backlog; percent of funded backlog at December 31, 2009 expected to be recorded as sales in 2010 and funded orders for each of our reportable segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our funded backlog does not include the full potential value of our contract awards, including those pertaining to multi-year, cost-plus type contracts, which are generally funded on an annual basis. Funded backlog also excludes the potential future orders and related sales from unexercised priced contract options that may be exercised by customers under existing contracts and the potential future orders and related sales of purchase orders that we may receive in the future under indefinite quantity contracts or basic ordering agreements during the term of such agreements.   

 62   
 Accounting Standards Issued and Not Yet Implemented  

 For a discussion of accounting standards issued and not yet implemented, see Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

 Inflation  

 The effect of inflation on our sales and earnings has not been significant. Although a majority of our sales are made under long-term contracts (revenue arrangements), the selling prices of such contracts, established for deliveries in the future, generally reflect estimated costs to be incurred in these future periods. In addition, some of our contracts provide for price adjustments through cost escalation clauses.  

 Forward-Looking Statements  

 Certain of the matters discussed concerning our operations, cash flows, financial position, economic performance and financial condition, including in particular, the likelihood of our success in developing and expanding our business and the realization of sales from backlog, include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act.  

 Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that these statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, including projections of total sales growth, sales growth from business acquisitions, organic sales growth, consolidated operating margins, total segment operating margins, interest expense, earnings, cash flow, research and development costs, working capital, capital expenditures and other projections, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties, and therefore, it is possible that these statements may not be achieved. Such statements will also be influenced by factors which include, among other things:  

    •   our dependence on the defense industry and the business risks peculiar to that industry, including changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget;   

    •   our reliance on contracts with a limited number of agencies of, or contractors to, the U.S. Government and the possibility of termination of government contracts by unilateral government action or for failure to perform;   

    •   the extensive legal and regulatory requirements surrounding our contracts with the U.S. or foreign governments and the results of any investigation of our contracts undertaken by the U.S. or foreign governments;   

    •   our ability to retain our existing business and related contracts (revenue arrangements);   

    •   our ability to successfully compete for and win new business and related contracts (revenue arrangements) and to win re-competitions of our existing contracts;   

    •   our ability to identify and acquire additional businesses in the future with terms, including the purchase price, that are attractive to L-3 and to integrate acquired business operations;   

    •   our ability to maintain and improve our consolidated operating margin and total segment operating margin in future periods;   

    •   our ability to obtain future government contracts (revenue arrangements) on a timely basis;   

    •   the availability of government funding or cost-cutting initiatives and changes in customer requirements for our products and services;   

    •   our significant amount of debt and the restrictions contained in our debt agreements;     

 63   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 64   
 In addition, for a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impair our results of operations or financial condition, see “Part I — Item 1A — Risk Factors” and Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements, in each case included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

 Readers of this document are cautioned that our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results or developments may differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements.  

 As for the forward-looking statements that relate to future financial results and other projections, actual results will be different due to the inherent uncertainties of estimates, forecasts and projections and may be better or worse than projected and such differences could be material. Given these uncertainties, you should not place any reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements also represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to these forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this filing to reflect events or changes in circumstances or changes in expectations or the occurrence of anticipated events.  

  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk