ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

Our ability to become profitable and our ability to continue to fund our obligations on an ongoing basis will depend on a number of risk factors, many of which are largely beyond our control. 

Risk Factors Relating to the Merger 

On February 13, 2013, AMR and US Airways Group, Inc. (“US Airways”) entered into the Merger Agreement, as more fully described under "Merger Agreement” in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. 

The Merger is subject to a number of conditions to the obligations of both us and US Airways that may not be fulfilled, which could cause the termination of the Merger Agreement.

The Merger Agreement contains a number of customary conditions to consummation of the Merger, such as the accuracy of representations and warranties in all material respects, the fulfillment of obligations set out in covenants, that certain consents and regulatory approvals have been obtained, that there are no legal prohibitions against consummation of the Merger, that approval of the US Airways stockholders has been received, that an order from the Bankruptcy Court confirming our plan of reorganization is in effect, that the plan of reorganization conform with the requirements of the Merger Agreement, that secured indebtedness of the Debtors and certain other claims against the Debtors not exceed specified levels and other customary conditions. US Airways has the right to unilaterally terminate the Merger Agreement under certain conditions. Many of the conditions to consummation of the Merger are not within our control, and we cannot predict when or if these conditions will be satisfied. If any of these conditions are not fulfilled or waived prior to the termination date set forth in the Merger Agreement (October 14, 2013, as it may be extended), it is possible that the Merger will not be consummated. A failure to consummate the Merger in accordance with the Merger Agreement would result in our Chapter 11 Cases continuing. If the Merger does not occur, we could then seek to emerge from our Chapter 11 Cases as an independent company or could seek another consolidation partner or another strategic alternative transaction. In any event, the failure to merge with US Airways would result in a delay, which could be substantial, in our and our debtor subsidiaries' ability to file an alternative plan of reorganization and successfully emerge from our Chapter 11 Cases. During such a delay, it is possible that third parties could propose their own plans of reorganization if we and our debtor subsidiaries do not have the exclusive right to propose a plan of reorganization. We could believe that such a third party plan is not in the best interests of our creditors or other constituencies. Such a delay could also create uncertainty with our customers, financing parties, vendors, employees and the communities we serve, and result in our Chapter 11 Cases continuing for an extended period of time, which could result in disruptions in employee stability and declining financial and operational performance. 

The Merger is subject to the receipt of consents and clearances from certain domestic and foreign regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have a material and adverse effect on us as the surviving company, or that could delay or, if not obtained, prevent the completion of the Merger. 

Before the Merger can be completed, applicable waiting periods must expire or terminate under antitrust laws and various approvals, consents or clearances must be obtained from certain domestic and foreign regulatory entities, including those regulating the provision of commercial aviation services. In deciding whether to grant antitrust or regulatory clearances, the relevant antitrust authorities will consider the effect of the Merger on competition within their relevant jurisdictions. The terms and conditions of approvals that are granted may impose requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions on the conduct of the surviving company's business following the Merger. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose terms, conditions, requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions that would delay completion of the Merger, impose additional material costs on or limit the revenues of the surviving company, or limit some or all of the synergies and other benefits we anticipate following the Merger. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that any such terms, conditions, requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions will not result in a material delay in, or the abandonment of, the Merger.

The Merger is subject to the receipt of numerous approvals, including approvals from US Airways' stockholders and confirmation of our plan of reorganization by the Bankruptcy Court. Failure to obtain any of these approvals would prevent the completion of the Merger.

The Merger Agreement will not be binding on either us or US Airways until the Bankruptcy Court enters an order approving its enforceability. In addition, before the Merger can be completed, US Airways must submit the Merger to a vote of its stockholders, US Airways' stockholders must have approved the Merger, we must obtain the approval of the plan of reorganization contemplating the Merger by the requisite percentage of each class of claimholder (as determined pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code), and the Bankruptcy Court must enter an order confirming our plan of reorganization and consummation of the Merger. There can be no assurance that any of these approvals will occur. Failure to obtain these required approvals within the expected time frame, or having to make significant changes to the structure, terms or conditions of the Merger to obtain such approvals, may result in a material delay in, or the abandonment of, the Merger. 

12

Any delay in completing the Merger may reduce or eliminate the benefits expected to be achieved thereunder. 

In addition to the required regulatory clearances and approvals discussed above, the Merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially and adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict when or if these other conditions will be satisfied. Furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the Merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. In addition, it is possible that actions by third parties, such as requests resulting in the appointment of additional formal committees in the Chapter 11 Cases, could delay completion of the merger. Any delay in completing the Merger could cause the surviving company to fail to realize some or all of the synergies and other benefits that we anticipate if the Merger is successfully completed within its expected time frame. 

Uncertainties associated with the Merger may cause a loss of our management personnel and other key employees, which could materially and adversely affect the future business, financial condition and results of operations of the surviving company following the Merger, or of AMR if the Merger fails to occur. 

The surviving company will be dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of its officers and other key employees to execute its business plan; therefore, the surviving company's success after the Merger will depend in part upon its ability to retain key management personnel and other key employees. Our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles within the surviving company, which may have a material and adverse effect on the ability of the surviving company to retain key management and other key personnel. Likewise, if the Merger is not consummated, we will be dependent on our existing officers and other key employees to develop and execute our business plan. There can be no assurance that such officers and key employees can be retained.

Failure to complete the Merger could materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 

If the Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be materially and adversely affected, and we will be subject to several risks, including the following:

•we may be required to pay termination fees of $135 or $195 million under certain circumstances provided in the Merger Agreement;

•we and our debtor subsidiaries would likely not be able to emerge from our Chapter 11 Cases for an extended period of time if the Merger is not consummated, because we would be required to formulate a new plan of reorganization and could be subject to alternative plans of reorganization proposed by third parties if we are no longer within the exclusivity period;

•unless and until it is terminated, we will be prohibited by the Merger Agreement from seeking certain strategic alternatives, such as transactions with third parties other than US Airways and developing an independent emergence plan, and could therefore miss attractive alternatives to the Merger;

•our operations will be restricted by the terms of the Merger Agreement, which may cause us to forego otherwise attractive business opportunities;

•we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, whether or not it is consummated, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees, which costs could be substantial; and

•our management will have focused its attention on negotiating and preparing for the Merger instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us.

If the Merger is not completed, there can be no assurance that these risks will not materialize and will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 

The Merger Agreement contains customary restrictions on our ability to seek other strategic alternatives. 

The Merger Agreement contains “no shop” provisions that restrict our ability to initiate, solicit, or knowingly encourage or facilitate competing third-party proposals for any business combination transaction involving a merger of us with another entity or the acquisition of a significant portion of our stock or assets, although we may consider competing, unsolicited proposals and enter into discussions or negotiations regarding such proposals if our board of directors determines that any such acquisition proposal constitutes, or is reasonably likely to lead to, a superior proposal and that the failure to take such action is reasonably likely to be inconsistent with the fiduciary duties of the board of directors to us and our stakeholders under applicable law. In addition, US Airways generally has an opportunity to offer to modify the terms of the Merger in response to any competing acquisition proposal. 

13

If we were to terminate the Merger Agreement to accept a superior proposal, we would be required to pay a termination fee of $135 million to US Airways. 

These provisions, although customary for these types of transactions, could discourage a potential third-party acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant portion of our company from proposing any such acquisition, even if the potential third-party acquiror were prepared to pay consideration with a higher cash or market value than the market value proposed to be received or realized in the Merger or might result in a potential third-party acquiror proposing to pay a lower consideration to our stakeholders than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the $135 million termination fee that will become payable in connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement by us.

If the Merger Agreement is terminated and we determine to seek another business combination, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with another party on terms comparable to, or better than, the terms of the Merger. 

The surviving company may be unable to integrate our and US Airways' businesses successfully and realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger. 

The Merger involves the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent public companies, each of which operates its own international network airline. Historically, the integration of separate airlines has often proven to be more time consuming and require more resources than initially estimated. The surviving company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our and US Airways' business practices, cultures and operations. Potential difficulties the surviving company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: 

• the inability to successfully combine our business with that of US Airways in a manner that permits the surviving company to achieve the synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the Merger;

•the challenge of integrating complex systems, operating procedures, regulatory compliance programs, technology, aircraft fleets, networks and other assets of the two companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies;

•the challenge of integrating the workforces of the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service and running an efficient operation; and

•potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than we currently anticipate and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the Merger, including one-time cash costs to integrate the two businesses that may exceed the approximately $1.2 billion of one-time cash costs that we currently anticipate.

Accordingly, even if the Merger is consummated, the contemplated benefits may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.

In addition, both US Airways and we have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in: 

•diversion of the attention of the surviving company's management and other employees; and

•the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the surviving company's ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies,

 any of which could materially and adversely affect the surviving company's ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or the surviving company's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger. 

Chapter 11 Reorganization Risks 

We filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on November 29, 2011 and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 Cases.

For the duration of our Chapter 11 Cases, our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 Cases. Risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 Cases include the following: 

•our creditors or other third parties may take actions or make decisions that are inconsistent with and detrimental to the plans we believe to be in the best interests of the Company; 

14

•we may be unable to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to certain matters in our Chapter 11 Cases from time to time;

•the Bankruptcy Court may not agree with our objections to positions taken by other parties;

•we may not be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization or may be delayed in doing so;

•we may not be able to obtain and maintain normal credit terms with vendors, strategic partners and service providers;

•we may not be able to continue to invest in our products and services, which could hurt our competitiveness; 

•our access to capital to fund ongoing business operations or emergence costs may be limited;

•we may not be able to enter into or maintain contracts that are critical to our operations at competitive rates and terms, if at all, including hedging strategies to assist in controlling our fuel costs;

•we may be exposed to risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining Bankruptcy Court approval to (i) terminate or shorten our exclusivity period to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization, (ii) appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or (iii) convert our Chapter 11 Cases to Chapter 7 liquidation cases; and

•our customers may choose to travel on other air carriers.

These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events, the positions we take in court, or publicity associated with our Chapter 11 Cases could adversely affect our sales of tickets and our relationship with our customers, as well as with vendors and our employees, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if our Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 Cases, the ultimate impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations of events that occur during these proceedings cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. If any one or more of these risks materializes, particularly if our Chapter 11 Cases are protracted, it could affect our ability to continue as a going concern. 

We may not be able to implement our business plan. 

On February 1, 2012, we announced the principal terms of a business plan (our “business plan”) that is designed to restore the Company to industry leadership, profitability and growth as an independent company; that is, assuming that we would not engage in a transaction such as the Merger or another consolidation transaction. While our business plan has evolved during the course of our Chapter 11 Cases, the chief components of our business plan continue to include targets of an annual $2 billion in cost savings and $1 billion in revenue enhancement. We expect to pursue many of the initiatives contemplated by our business plan, whether or not the Merger is consummated. 

As part of our business plan, we are implementing increased outsourcing. Although we believe that outsourcing will result in lower costs and increased efficiencies, third parties may not be as responsive to our needs as we might be ourselves, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our business plan originally contemplated the termination of all of American's defined benefit pension plans. Due to the subsequent decision to freeze (rather than to terminate) its defined benefit pension plans, American expects to retain greater pension funding obligations than it previously anticipated. To offset these greater obligations, we anticipate that we may raise additional capital at or after our exit from our Chapter 11 Cases whether or not the Merger is consummated. There can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such additional capital or that any capital raised would be sufficient to offset these greater pension funding obligations. 

We continue efforts to renegotiate a number of agreements and take other steps to achieve the cost savings we are seeking in our restructuring. In addition, we continue efforts to reduce our healthcare costs for current retirees. We may not be able to realize all of the cost savings we are seeking. Also, as part of the process of renegotiating agreements, we may reject certain of those agreements in our Chapter 11 Cases. We cannot predict whether we would be able to enter into new agreements to replace any rejected agreements (some of which may be material) on acceptable terms, or at all. 

Operating under Chapter 11 may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. 

Under Chapter 11, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. We must obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to, among other things: 

15

•engage in certain transactions with our suppliers and vendors;

•buy or sell assets outside the ordinary course of business;

•consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and

•borrow for our operations, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.

In particular, we will need Bankruptcy Court approval to enter into the Merger Agreement.

Our employees face considerable uncertainty due to our Chapter 11 Cases. 

As a result of our Chapter 11 Cases, our employees are facing considerable uncertainty. A material erosion of our employees' commitment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations particularly if our Chapter 11 Cases are protracted.

Our businesses could suffer from a protracted restructuring. 

Our future results are dependent upon the timely and successful filing, confirmation and implementation of a plan of reorganization. The Merger Agreement requires that our plan of reorganization include approval of the Merger. If the Merger is terminated for any reason, we would anticipate filing an alternative plan of reorganization. In any event, if our restructuring is protracted, whether because approval by the Bankruptcy Court of our entry into the Merger Agreement is delayed or because the Merger Agreement is terminated, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our relationships with our people, vendors, strategic partners, service providers and customers. If we experience a protracted reorganization, there is a significant risk that the value of our enterprise would be substantially eroded to the detriment of all of our stakeholders. 

Whether or not we are able to consummate the Merger, our ability to emerge from our Chapter 11 Cases and thereafter operate profitably will depend on increasing our revenue, lowering our costs, reducing our liabilities and obtaining sufficient financing or other capital to operate successfully. 

We have not yet prepared or filed with the Bankruptcy Court our ultimate plan of reorganization. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, our plan of reorganization will, among other things, provide for approval of the Merger and distribution to our stakeholders of shares in the surviving company. However, if the Merger is not consummated for any reason, it will be necessary for us to prepare and file an alternative plan of reorganization, which could include other strategic alternatives or could contemplate that we would emerge as an independent company. For an independent plan of reorganization to be effective, we will need to increase our revenue, lower our costs, reduce our liabilities, and obtain and/or demonstrate the sufficiency of financing and/or other capital to operate after emergence. 

If we were to emerge as an independent company, we currently plan to drive revenue growth by investing heavily in renewing and optimizing our fleet, strengthening both network scale and our alliances, and investing several hundred million dollars annually in modernizing our brand, products and services. Significant capital resources will be required to achieve these goals, and as a result we estimate our planned capital expenditures for calendar years 2013-2017 as an independent company would be in excess of $13 billion. After the conclusion of our Chapter 11 Cases, we will need substantial financing or other capital resources, some of which are expected to be subject to Bankruptcy Court approval, whether or not the Merger is consummated. Depending on numerous factors, many of which are out of our control, such as the state of the domestic and global economy, the credit market's view of our prospects and the airline industry in general, and the general availability of debt and equity capital at the time we emerge from our Chapter 11 Cases, whether or not the Merger is consummated, the financing and other capital that we will need may not be available to us, or may only be available on onerous terms and conditions. Whether or not the Merger is consummated, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining financing or other needed sources of capital to successfully emerge from Chapter 11 and operate our Company. Inability to obtain sufficient financing or other capital may further delay the emergence of our Company from bankruptcy and/or limit our alternatives, which could result in our inability to continue as a going concern. Even if such financing or other capital is available, there is no guarantee that we will achieve the desired revenue growth to successfully operate.

When our Chapter 11 Cases commenced, our cost structure was heavily driven by labor costs, pension obligations and existing levels of indebtedness. In our Chapter 11 Cases, we have been able to substantially reduce our labor costs across employee groups and pension obligations, and significantly reduce and restructure our indebtedness. Nevertheless, whether or not the Merger is consummated, when we emerge from our Chapter 11 Cases, we expect to have significant debt, pension costs, lease and other obligations, including those related to aircraft acquisitions. Moreover, any actions outside the ordinary course that are taken during our Chapter 11 Cases will be subject to Bankruptcy Court approval, and our ability to take these actions is not entirely within our control. Whether or not the Merger is consummated, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully achieve the desired 

16

cost savings or meet our planned continuing obligations. Failure to implement substantial cost savings could materially hamper our ability to operate profitably after emergence, and could result in our inability to continue as a going concern.

If we are unable to consummate the Merger, third parties may propose competing Chapter 11 plans of reorganization and we may receive unsolicited offers for our Company or our assets. 

Chapter 11 gives us the exclusive right to file a plan of reorganization during the first 120 days after filing for Chapter 11 reorganization. That period can be extended for cause for up to a total of 18 months from the Petition Date, or until May 31, 2013, with approval of the Bankruptcy Court, subject to the ability of third parties to file motions to terminate this exclusive right. While we intend to file our plan of reorganization during this so-called “exclusivity period,” there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. After the expiration of the exclusivity period, third parties can file one or more Chapter 11 plans for the Debtors. Although the Merger Agreement contains restrictions on our ability to negotiate with third parties unless and until the Merger Agreement is terminated, after the exclusivity period is terminated, a third party could file an alternative plan of reorganization that contemplates our continuing as a going concern, our being broken up, our companies or their assets being acquired by a third party, our being merged with a competitor, or some other proposal. We may not believe that such an alternative plan of reorganization is in our stakeholders' best interests or fully values the benefits to be achieved by our reorganization. If we cannot successfully obtain Bankruptcy Court approval of our plan of reorganization during the exclusivity period, we may have limited ability to prevent an alternative plan of reorganization from being filed with and approved by the Bankruptcy Court. 

We have not yet prepared or filed with the Bankruptcy Court a plan of reorganization, which we expect will provide for approval of the Merger. Our current exclusivity period to file a plan of reorganization extends through and including April 15, 2013, subject to the ability of third parties to file motions to terminate our exclusivity period. If we file a plan of reorganization on or prior to such date, we will have an exclusive period to solicit and obtain acceptances of such plan of reorganization through and including June 17, 2013.

An unsolicited proposal or alternative plan of reorganization could potentially delay our emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases and expose us to a number of other risks, including potential limitations on our ability to execute our desired plan of reorganization; difficulties in hiring, retaining and motivating key personnel; negative reactions among our employees, vendors, strategic partners and service providers; a failure to provide stakeholders full value for the benefits that could be achieved by the Company post-emergence pursuant to our desired plan of reorganization; and unease and uncertainty among our customer base. In addition, any potential alternative transaction proposed while our Chapter 11 Cases are pending would be expressly subject to Bankruptcy Code requirements and Bankruptcy Court approval. 

We may be subject to claims that will not be discharged in our Chapter 11 Cases. 

The Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from substantially all debts arising prior to confirmation. As of February 13, 2013, approximately 13,366 claims totaling about $290.0 billion have been filed with the Bankruptcy Court against us. Of those claims, approximately 350 claims aggregating approximately $59 million were filed after the Bar Date. We expect new and amended claims to be filed in the future, including claims amended to assign values to claims originally filed with no designated value. We have identified, and we expect to continue to identify, many claims that we believe should be disallowed by the Bankruptcy Court because they are duplicative, are without merit, are overstated or for other reasons, including that the claims were filed after the Bar Date. As of February 13, 2013, the Bankruptcy Court has disallowed approximately $100.2 billion of claims and has not yet ruled on our other objections to claims, the disputed portions of which aggregate to an additional $14.8 billion. We expect to continue to file objections in the future. With few exceptions, all claims that arose prior to the filing of our Chapter 11 Cases (i) will be subject to compromise and/or treatment under the plan of reorganization or (ii) will be discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of the plan of reorganization. However, there can be no assurance that the aggregate amount of such claims that are not subject to treatment under the plan of reorganization or that are not discharged will not be material. 

Our historical consolidated financial information will likely not be comparable to financial information for future periods. 

During the course of our Chapter 11 Cases, our financial results may be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, bankruptcy professional fees, contract terminations and rejections and claims assessments, among other things, could significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. Upon emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases, the amounts reported in our subsequent consolidated financial statements are likely to materially change relative to historical consolidated financial statements. For example, upon our emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases, we expect to apply fresh start accounting. As a result, the book values of our long-lived assets and the related depreciation and amortization schedules, among other things, are expected to change. 

Any “ownership change” due to our Chapter 11 Cases could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards.

17

Under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code), a corporation is generally allowed a deduction in any taxable year for net operating losses carried over from prior years (NOL carryforwards). As of December 31, 2012, we had available NOL carryforwards of approximately $6.6 billion for regular federal income tax purposes which will expire, if unused, beginning in 2022, and for state income tax purposes of $3.6 billion, which will expire, if unused, in years 2013 through 2027. The amount of NOL carryforwards for state income tax purposes that will expire, if unused, in 2013 is $105 million. Our NOL carryforwards could be reduced as a result of our Chapter 11 Cases and certain related transactions.

A corporation's ability to deduct its federal NOL carryforwards can be substantially constrained under the general annual limitation rules of section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if it undergoes an “ownership change” as defined in section 382 (generally where cumulative stock ownership changes among material shareholders exceeds 50 percent during a rolling 3-year period). We expect that an “ownership change” will occur upon our emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases. The general limitation rules are liberalized where the ownership change occurs upon emergence from bankruptcy and, under certain circumstances, special rules may apply to allow us to utilize substantially all of our post-emergence NOL carryforwards without regard to the general limitations of section 382, although there can be no assurance that such special rules apply to our Chapter 11 Cases. The same or similar rules may also apply to our state NOL carryforwards. Notwithstanding the above, an ownership change subsequent to emergence from bankruptcy may further limit or effectively eliminate our ability to utilize our post-emergence NOL carryforwards.

Liquidity Risks 

We may not have sufficient cash and other sources of liquidity to maintain our operations during our Chapter 11 Cases and thereafter. 

We entered our Chapter 11 Cases with approximately $4.1 billion in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and, as of December 31, 2012, we had $3.9 billion in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents. We plan to continue to finance substantially all aircraft scheduled to be delivered to us during our Chapter 11 Cases, but we do not currently expect to require any debtor-in-possession financing. However, because of our ongoing Chapter 11 Cases, we will continue to have heightened exposure to, and less ability to withstand, the operating risks that are customary in the industry, such as volatile fuel costs, global events leading to reduced demand for air travel, the potential obligation to post reserves under credit card processing agreements, the potential obligation to post cash collateral on fuel hedging contracts, severe weather that results in significant flight cancellations or reduced travel demand, and competitors' reduction of ticket pricing. Any of these factors, and other factors, could result in the need for substantial additional funding, particularly if our Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. If we determine that debtor-in-possession financing is useful or necessary to continue operations, we may find that it is very difficult and expensive, or impossible, to obtain, as sources for such financing are limited and we have a very limited quantity of assets which could be used as collateral for such financings.

A number of other factors, including our Chapter 11 Cases, our financial results in recent years, our substantial indebtedness, the competitive revenue environment we face, recent historically high fuel prices, and the financial difficulties experienced in the airline industry, adversely affect the availability and terms of funding that might be available to us during, and following our emergence from, our Chapter 11 Cases. In addition, the global economic downturn resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and substantially more limited availability of funding. As a result of these and other factors, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain any necessary funding at acceptable rates and on acceptable terms, if at all. An inability to obtain necessary funding on acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on us and on our ability to sustain our operations. 

At emergence, we will be required to settle certain obligations, such as professional fees, accrued and unpaid interest, and debt obligations that matured during the Chapter 11 Cases. We may find it optimal to, or be required to, settle some of these obligations in cash. At this point in the proceedings, we cannot predict the amount of cash that could be required to settle such obligations at emergence, but the amounts could be significant. 

As a result of significant losses in recent years, our financial condition has been materially weakened. 

We incurred significant losses in recent years, which have materially weakened our financial condition. We lost $471 million in 2010, $2.0 billion in 2011 and $1.9 billion in 2012. Because of our financial condition, even though we are operating under the protections of Chapter 11, we are vulnerable both to the impact of unexpected events and to deterioration of the operating environment (such as a significant increase in jet fuel prices, a significant decrease in travel demand, or significant increase in competition). 

Our indebtedness and other obligations are and will continue to be substantial, and could adversely affect our ongoing business and liquidity. 

We have, and expect to continue to have, significant amounts of indebtedness and other obligations, including pension obligations, obligations to make future payments on aircraft equipment and property leases and obligations under aircraft purchase agreements, 

18

whether or not the Merger is consummated. Moreover, currently all but a very limited quantity of our assets are pledged to secure our indebtedness. Although we have substantially reduced our prefiling debt and lease obligations as a result of the Chapter 11 process, we also expect to incur substantial additional debt (including secured debt) and lease obligations in the future, whether or not the Merger is consummated. Our substantial indebtedness and other obligations have important consequences. For example, they currently: 

•limit our ability to obtain additional funding for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes, and adversely affect the terms on which such funding can be obtained;

•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and other obligations, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;

•make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and catastrophic external events; and

•limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.

The factors listed immediately above will likely continue to limit us after our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases whether or not the Merger is consummated. In addition, increases in the cost of financing could adversely affect our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations and limit our ability to execute our business plan.

We have not yet secured financing for all of our scheduled aircraft deliveries.

We have not yet secured financing commitments for some of the aircraft that we have on order, commencing with certain deliveries scheduled for 2013, and we cannot assure investors of the availability or the cost of that financing. If we are not able to arrange financing for such aircraft at customary advance rates and on terms and conditions acceptable to us, we may need to use cash from operations to purchase such aircraft or we may seek to negotiate deferrals for such aircraft with the aircraft manufacturers.

We could be required to maintain reserves under our credit card processing agreements, which could materially adversely impact our liquidity. 

American has agreements with a number of credit card companies and processors to accept credit cards for the sale of air travel and other services. Under certain of these agreements, the related credit card processor may hold back a reserve from American's credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including the failure of American to maintain certain levels of liquidity (as specified in each agreement). In certain circumstances, such reserve could reach 100% of the applicable receivables due to American.

Under such agreements, the amount of the reserve that may be required generally is based on the processor's exposure to us under the applicable agreement and, in the case a reserve is required because of American's failure to maintain a certain level of liquidity, the amount of such liquidity. As of December 31, 2012, we were not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. If circumstances were to occur that would allow the credit card processor to require us to maintain a reserve, our liquidity would be negatively impacted, and could be materially adversely impacted. 

Common Stock Risks

Trading in our securities during the pendency of our Chapter 11 Cases is speculative and could pose substantial risks. 

If the Merger Agreement is terminated for any reason and the Merger does not occur, we cannot predict how much time would pass before we could file an alternative plan of reorganization, or whether such a plan would contemplate our emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases as an independent company, in a business combination with another party, or in some other form. If the Merger is not consummated, we could remain in the Chapter 11 Cases for an extended period of time. For these and other reasons, trading in our securities is speculative and could pose substantial risk to investors in our securities. We cannot assure investors that the Merger will close, or, if so, what consideration will be received in the related plan of reorganization by pre-closing holders of our common stock. The Merger Agreement and related plan of reorganization will provide for distributions of the common stock of the entity surviving the merger to our claim holders and equity holders based on a formula that will take into consideration a number of factors that will not be determined until the Merger closes. It is possible that pre-closing equity holders will receive little value in the surviving company if the Merger occurs. Accordingly, we urge that caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in our common stock and any other Debtor securities or claims.

Our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and is not listed on any other national securities exchange.

19

Trading in the Company's common stock and certain debt securities on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, was suspended on January 5, 2012, and the Company's common stock and such debt securities were delisted by the SEC from the NYSE on January 30, 2012. On January 5, 2012, the Company's common stock began trading under the symbol “AAMRQ” on the OTCQB marketplace, operated by OTC Markets Group.

It is a condition to the closing of the Merger under the Merger Agreement that our common stock be listed on the NYSE or The NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ). We can provide no assurance that we will be able to list our common stock on a national securities exchange following our emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases or that, if our common stock is not so listed, it will continue being traded on the OTCQB marketplace. The trading of our common stock on the OTCQB marketplace rather than the NYSE or NASDAQ may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, securities that trade on the OTCQB marketplace are not eligible for margin loans and make our common stock subject to the provisions of Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), commonly referred to as the “penny stock rule.”

Risks of trading in an over-the-counter market.

Securities traded in the over-the-counter market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, due to factors such as the reduced number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the reduced number of market makers in the securities, and the reduced number of securities analysts that follow such securities. As a result, holders of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock that could occur, the share price of our common stock could be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the markets perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors, parties with whom we have business relationships or third parties with interests in our Chapter 11 Cases. With respect to the Company, while our common stock is traded on the OTCQB marketplace, we may be subject to additional compliance requirements under applicable state laws in the issuance of our securities. The lack of liquidity in our common stock may also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future.

Claim holders and equity holders who recover any portion of their investment by means of a distribution of our common stock may be subject to substantial dilution as a result of future issuances of our common stock.

Whether or not the Merger is consummated, we will likely issue common stock to satisfy our claim holders and equity holders. Any plan of reorganization will likely include an equity-based incentive compensation plan for officers and employees. In addition, we could consider issuing additional common stock following our emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases in order to raise additional capital or for other reasons. The amount and dilutive effect of any such issuances could be substantial.

In connection with emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases, we expect to establish certain limitations on transfers of our common stock which may serve to limit the post emergence liquidity of our stock.

To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to use our net operating loss carryovers and certain other tax attributes and to avoid violation of federal statutory limitations on equity ownership of U.S. commercial airlines by foreign nationals, our certificate of incorporation is expected to be amended in connection with emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases to contain certain restrictions on the transfer of our stock. These transfer restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of our stock post-emergence to dispose of or acquire shares of our stock during the period the restrictions are in place. No assurance can be given that an ownership change will not occur even with tax-related and other restrictions in place. 

Business Risks

We could experience significant operating losses in the future. 

For a number of reasons, including those addressed in these risk factors, we might fail to achieve profitability and might experience significant losses. In particular, the condition of the economy and the high volatility of fuel prices have had, and continue to have, an impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and increase the risk that we will experience losses. 

Downturns in economic conditions could adversely affect our revenues, liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Due to the discretionary nature of business and leisure travel spending, airline industry revenues are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy and economies in other regions of the world. Unfavorable conditions in these broader economies have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased passenger demand for air travel and changes in booking practices, both of which in turn have had, and may have in the future, a strong negative effect on our revenues. Stagnant or worsening global 

20

economic conditions either in the United States or in other geographic regions and continued volatility in U.S. and global financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations. If such economic conditions were to disrupt capital markets in the future, we may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to satisfy future capital commitments and otherwise sustain our operations.

We have been adjusting our capacity in response to trends in demand. No assurance can be given that capacity adjustments or other steps we may take in response to changes in demand will be successful. Capacity reductions or other steps might result in special charges in the future. Further, other carriers may make capacity adjustments or take other actions which may reduce the expected benefits of any steps we may take to respond to changes in demand. Industry-wide capacity may increase to the extent the economy continues to recover from the global recession. If industry capacity increases, and if consumer demand does not continue to keep pace with those increases, we, and the airline industry as a whole, could be negatively impacted. 

Our initiatives to generate additional revenues and to reduce our costs may not be adequate or successful. 

As we seek to improve our financial condition, we must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to achieve a competitive cost structure during our Chapter 11 Cases. As described above, our business plan contains numerous initiatives to reduce our costs and increase our revenues. The adequacy and ultimate success of our initiatives to generate additional revenues and/or reduce our costs cannot be assured. Moreover, whether our initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond our control. For example, any of the following could negatively impact the success of our initiatives: whether the statutory official committee of unsecured creditors appointed by the U.S. Trustee on December 5, 2011 (Creditors' Committee) and other creditors will support our plans; whether other parties may raise concerns with or take positions against our business plan; whether we are able to persuade the Bankruptcy Court to rule in our favor on the numerous matters that will be required to emerge from our Chapter 11 Cases; and, in general, the overall industry environment, including customer demand, yield and industry capacity growth, actions of our competitors and fuel prices. It could be very difficult for us to continue to fund our obligations on an ongoing basis, and to be profitable, if the overall industry revenue environment does not continue to improve or if fuel prices were to increase and persist for an extended period at high levels. 

We may be adversely affected by increases in fuel prices, and we would be adversely affected by disruptions in the supply of fuel. 

Aircraft fuel has been our largest single operating expense in recent years, and our results are very significantly affected by the cost, price volatility and the availability of jet fuel, which are in turn affected by a number of factors beyond our control. Although fuel prices have abated from the record high prices of several years ago, they remain high and extremely volatile. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, we have not always been able to pass on increased fuel prices to customers by increasing fares, and we may not be able to do so in the future. 

Dependence on foreign imports of crude oil, limited refining capacity and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the future availability of jet fuel. If there are additional outbreaks of hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas or elsewhere, or a reduction in refining capacity (due to natural disasters or weather events, for example), or governmental limits on the production or sale of jet fuel (including as a consequence of increased environmental regulation), there could be a reduction in the supply of jet fuel and significant increases in the cost of jet fuel. Major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost would have a material adverse impact on us. 

We have a large number of older aircraft in our fleet, and these aircraft are not as fuel efficient as more recent models of aircraft. We believe it is imperative that we continue to execute our fleet renewal plans, and are dependent on Boeing and Airbus to deliver aircraft on schedule. If we experience delays in delivery of, or are unable to obtain, more fuel efficient aircraft, we will be adversely affected.

Our aviation fuel purchase contracts generally do not provide meaningful price protection. While we seek to manage the risk of fuel price increases by using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that, at any given time, we will have derivatives in place to provide any particular level of protection against increased fuel costs. In addition, our Chapter 11 Cases or market factors may negatively affect our ability to enter into derivative contracts. Moreover, we may be required to post material amounts of cash collateral based on the size and market value of the contracts, and if such contracts close when fuel prices are below the applicable levels, we would be required to make payments to close such contracts.

21

We could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to resolve favorably our pending litigation with certain GDSs and business discussions with certain on-line travel agents, or if we cannot manage effectively the costs, rights and functionality of third party distribution channels. 

We are currently involved in litigation with certain global distribution systems, or GDSs, and in business discussions with certain on-line travel agents. On October 31, 2012, we announced the settlement of our disputes with Sabre and the renewal of our distribution agreement with Sabre for multiple years. An adverse outcome in any of the remaining matters could have a material adverse effect on our level of bookings, business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - GDS Discussion.” Agreements with the GDSs operated by Travelport and Amadeus continue to be in effect. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to negotiate acceptable new contractual terms for our participation in these systems.

We rely on third party distribution channels, including those provided by or through GDSs (e.g., Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport), conventional travel agents and online travel agents, or OTAs (e.g., Expedia, Orbitz and Travelocity), to distribute a significant portion of our airline tickets and we expect in the future to continue to rely on these channels. We hope eventually to use them to distribute and collect revenues for ancillary products (e.g., fees for selective seating). These distribution channels are more expensive and at present have less functionality in respect of ancillary product offerings than those we operate ourselves, such as our call centers and our website. Certain of these distribution channels also effectively restrict the manner in which we distribute our products generally. To remain competitive, we will need to manage successfully our distribution costs and rights, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of third party distribution channels, while maintaining an industry-competitive cost structure. Any inability to manage our third party distribution costs, rights and functionality at a competitive level or any material diminishment or disruption in the distribution of our tickets could have a material adverse effect on us. 

Our business is affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, and our results of operations tend to be volatile and fluctuate due to seasonality. 

Our business, financial condition and results of operations are affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including, among others: 

•actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation, higher interest rates, wars, terrorist attacks or political instability;

•changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends;

•changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, changes in airline alliance affiliations and other factors;

•actual or potential disruptions to the air traffic control systems;

•increases in costs of safety, security and environmental measures;

•outbreaks of diseases that affect travel behavior; and

•weather and natural disasters.

Thus, our results from operations tend to be volatile and subject to rapid and unexpected change. In addition, due to generally greater demand for air travel during the summer, our revenues in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. 

The airline industry is fiercely competitive, and we are subject to increasing competition. 

Service over almost all of our routes is highly competitive. Our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. These factors may become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines under financial stress, or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. Our ability to compete effectively depends in large part on our ability to achieve a competitive cost structure while our Chapter 11 Cases are pending. If we cannot do so, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.

We face vigorous, and, in some cases, increasing, competition from major domestic airlines, national, regional, all-cargo and charter carriers, foreign air carriers, low-cost carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation. We also face significant and increasing competition from expanded marketing/operational alliances formed by our competitors (some 

22

of which are larger than the oneworld alliance, of which we are a charter member). Competition with foreign air carriers and with such marketing/operational alliances has been increasing in recent years in part due to the adoption of liberalized open skies aviation agreements between the United States and an increasing number of countries around the world. 

Our business plan currently contemplates focusing our operations in markets with a high concentration of premium business traffic. These markets are extremely competitive. Moreover, the percentage of routes on which we compete with low-cost carriers has grown significantly over time, and we face greater exposure to low-cost carrier competition than do our major hub-and-spoke competitors. Low-cost carriers have a profound impact on industry revenues. Using the advantage of low unit costs, these carriers offer lower fares in order to shift demand from larger, more-established airlines. Some low-cost carriers, including Southwest, have significant numbers of aircraft on order for delivery in the next few years. Low-cost carriers are expected to continue to increase their market share through growth and, potentially, consolidation, and are expected to continue to have an impact on our overall performance. For example, the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006, which has reduced restrictions on operations by Southwest and other carriers at Dallas Love Field (LUV) and will eliminate all domestic non-stop geographic restrictions at LUV in October 2014, has increased low-cost carrier competition for our operations at DFW. The actions of the low-cost carriers, including those described above, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. 

Certain airline alliances have been, or may in the future be, granted immunity from antitrust regulations by governmental authorities for specific areas of cooperation, such as joint pricing decisions. To the extent alliances formed by our competitors can undertake activities that are not available to us, our ability to effectively compete may be hindered. 

We have implemented a joint business agreement (JBA) and related marketing arrangements with British Airways and Iberia, and antitrust-immunized cooperation with British Airways, Iberia, Finnair and Royal Jordanian. In addition, American has implemented an antitrust-immunized JBA with Japan Airlines and a JBA with Qantas. No assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits that we may derive from such arrangements.

The airline industry may undergo further consolidation or changes in industry alliances, which may strengthen the competitive position of some of our competitors.

In recent years, there have been numerous mergers and acquisitions within the U.S. and international airline industries and numerous changes in industry alliances, which have generally had an adverse effect on us. The mergers of United with Continental and Delta with Northwest have resulted in the formation of larger competitors than us with greater financial resources and more extensive networks than ours. More recently, Southwest strengthened its competitive position through its acquisition of AirTran. Our planned Merger with US Airways is intended to address some of the competitive impacts of these actions by other airlines. We are also seeking to address these competitive challenges with our market and alliance strategies, which include growing the oneworld alliance in the world's premier markets for business travelers. There can be no assurances as to the level of success of these strategies.

In the future, there may be additional mergers and acquisitions, and changes in airline alliances, including those in which we may participate and those that may be undertaken by others. Any airline industry consolidation or changes in airline alliances, including oneworld, could substantially alter the competitive landscape and result in changes in our corporate or business strategy. Whether or not the Merger is consummated, consolidation involving other participants in our industry could result in the formation of one or more airlines with greater financial resources, more extensive networks, and/or lower cost structures than exist currently, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For similar reasons, changes in airline alliances could have a similar adverse impact on us, whether or not the Merger is consummated.

Fares are at low levels and our reduced pricing power adversely affects our ability to achieve adequate pricing. 

Our customer yield (on an inflation-adjusted basis) remains low and reflects a decline in our pricing power. Our reduced pricing power is the product of several factors including: greater cost sensitivity on the part of travelers; pricing transparency resulting from the use of the internet; greater competition from low-cost carriers and from carriers that have reorganized in recent years under the protection of Chapter 11; other carriers being better hedged against rising fuel costs and able to better absorb high jet fuel prices; other carriers having younger and more fuel efficient fleets; and the economy. This pricing environment could persist indefinitely. 

Pricing decisions are significantly affected by competition from other airlines. Fare discounting by competitors historically has had a negative effect on our financial results because we must generally match competitors' fares, since failing to match would result in even less revenue. Moreover, decisions by our competitors that increase or reduce overall industry capacity, or capacity dedicated to a particular domestic or foreign region, market or route, can have a material impact on related fare levels. 

23

Our corporate or business strategy may change. 

In light of the rapid changes in the airline industry, we evaluate our assets on an ongoing basis with a view to maximizing their value and determining which are core to our operations. We will continue to evaluate our corporate and business strategies during our Chapter 11 Cases; however, the Merger Agreement requires us to continue to operate our business in the ordinary course in many respects, and requires the consent of US Airways to certain changes in our operations. If the Merger is not consummated for any reason, we will be required to reevaluate our corporate and business strategies in connection with devising an alternative plan of reorganization.

Delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries or failure of new aircraft to perform as expected may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Our fleet renewal plans are intended to enhance our ability to operate optimum numbers of specific types of aircraft. In many cases, the aircraft we intend to operate are not yet in our fleet, but we have contractual commitments to purchase or lease them. If for any reason we were unable to take delivery of particular types of new aircraft on contractually scheduled delivery dates, we will be adversely affected. In addition, if the aircraft we receive do not meet the expected performance or quality standards, including with regard to fuel efficiency, our business would be adversely affected.

We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and parts. 

We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and many aircraft and engine parts. As a result, we are vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft, engines and parts, including insufficient supply, design defects, mechanical problems, inadequate performance by suppliers, or adverse perception by the public that could result in customer avoidance or in actions by the FAA resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft. 

Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which can result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages. 

Airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), the FAA, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the Department of Homeland Security have issued a number of directives and other regulations that affect us. These requirements have imposed substantial costs on us and restricted the ways we can conduct our business. 

For example, the FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures or operational restrictions. Our failure to timely comply with these requirements has in the past and could in the future result in fines and other enforcement actions by the FAA or other regulators. In addition, the FAA recently issued its final regulations governing pilot rest periods and work hours for all carriers certificated under Part 121 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, including American and the AMR Eagle carriers. The rule, which is effective January 14, 2014, impacts the required amount and timing of rest periods for pilots between work assignments and modifies duty and rest requirements based on the time of day, number of scheduled segments, flight types, time zones and other factors. These regulations could have a material adverse impact on us and the industry upon implementation. 

Recent DOT consumer rules require new procedures for customer handling during long onboard delays, further regulate airline interactions with passengers through the reservations process, at the airport and on board the aircraft, and require new disclosures concerning airline fares and ancillary fees such as baggage fees. The DOT has been aggressively investigating alleged violations of these new rules. Other DOT rules apply to post-ticket purchase price increases and an expansion of tarmac delay regulations to international carriers. 

The TSA mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per-ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines. TSA airport security procedures, which are generally disliked by a significant portion of the traveling public, dampen the demand for air travel to an unknown extent.

The results of our operations, demand for air travel, and the manner in which we conduct our business each may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies, including: 

•changes in law which affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports, or the types of fees that can be charged to passengers;

•the granting and timing of certain governmental approvals (including antitrust or foreign government approvals) needed for codesharing alliances and other arrangements with other airlines; 

24

•restrictions on competitive practices (for example, court orders, or agency regulations or orders, that would curtail an airline's ability to respond to a competitor);

•the adoption of new passenger security standards or regulations that impact customer service standards (for example, a “passenger bill of rights”);

•restrictions on airport operations, such as restrictions on the use of takeoff and landing slots at airports or the auction or reallocation of slot rights currently held by us; and

•the adoption of more restrictive locally imposed noise restrictions.

Each additional regulation or other form of regulatory oversight increases costs and adds greater complexity to our operation and, in some cases, may reduce the demand for air travel. We cannot assure investors that compliance with new rules, anticipated rules or other forms of regulatory oversight will not have a material adverse effect on us.

In addition, the U.S. air traffic control (ATC) system, which is operated by the FAA, is not successfully managing the growing demand for U.S. air travel. Air traffic controllers rely on outdated technologies that routinely overwhelm the system and compel airlines to fly inefficient, indirect routes. On February 14, 2012, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 was signed. The law provides funding for the FAA to rebuild its ATC system, including switching from radar to a GPS based system. It is uncertain when any improvements to the ATC system will take effect. Failure to update the ATC system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements that may be imposed on air carriers of a modernized ATC system, may have a material adverse effect on us.

The ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities are not made available. We currently operate on a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of carriers permitted to operate on the route, the capacity of the carriers providing services on the route, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. If an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on us and could result in the impairment of material amounts of our related tangible and intangible assets. In addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of our business and assets on the open skies routes. For example, the open skies air services agreement between the U.S. and the EU which took effect in March 2008 provides airlines from the U.S. and EU member states open access to each other's markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly beyond the U.S. and to any airport in the EU including London's Heathrow Airport. The agreement has resulted in us facing increased competition in these markets, including Heathrow Airport. In addition, the open skies agreement between the U.S. and Brazil, which was signed in 2010 and takes full effect in 2015, has resulted in increased competition in the U.S./Brazil market.

We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations

Many aspects of our operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations, including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures. 

Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation. The EU has adopted a directive under which each EU member state is required to extend the existing EU emissions trading scheme (ETS) to aviation. This would require us to annually submit emission allowances in order to operate flights to and from EU member states in January 2012 and thereafter, including flights between the U.S. and EU member states. In November 2012, the European Commission proposed to suspend for one year the ETS' application to flights entering and departing Europe, to allow ICAO to propose an alternate global emissions reduction scheme. Under the terms of the proposal, with the exception of intra-Europe flights, the monitoring and reporting of emissions, which became effective in 2012, and the submission of emission allowances, scheduled to occur before the end of April 2013, will be suspended and the EU will not collect allowances from airlines in 2013. The proposal is expected to be approved by the European Parliament and EU member states represented in the EU Council in the first quarter of 2013. The ETS may be reactivated if ICAO does not make progress towards an alternate global scheme within the next year. The U.S. enacted legislation in November 2012 that will allow the Secretary of Transportation to prohibit U.S. airlines from participating in the ETS. While these measures create some uncertainty as to the extent to which we will be required to participate in the ETS going forward, it is nevertheless increasingly likely that in the future we will be required to participate in some form of international arrangement governing aircraft emissions. Although the cost of compliance with the ETS, or any alternate global scheme, is difficult to predict because certain key parameters, such as the number and price of emission allowances we may be required to purchase, are unknown, such costs could be significant.

Other legislative or regulatory actions addressing climate change and emissions from aviation that may be taken in the future by the U.S., state or foreign governments or through international treaties may adversely affect our business and financial results. 

25

Climate change legislation was previously introduced in Congress; such legislation could be re-introduced in the future by Congress and state legislatures, and could contain provisions affecting the aviation industry. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency could seek to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft. It is currently unknown how climate change legislation or regulation, if enacted, would specifically apply to the aviation industry. However, the impact on us of any climate change legislation or regulation is likely to be adverse and related costs of compliance could be significant. Such legislation or regulation could result in, among other things, increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, the imposition of requirements to purchase emission offsets or credits, increased aircraft and equipment costs, and restrictions on the growth of airline operations. We continue to evaluate ongoing climate change developments at the international, federal and state levels and assess the potential associated impacts on our business and operations. 

Ongoing data security compliance requirements could increase our costs, and any significant data breach could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of customer and other sensitive information. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities (including cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses and the like), discovery of new vulnerabilities or attempts to exploit existing vulnerabilities in our systems, other data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access and store sensitive information. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Furthermore, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security in the U.S. and abroad (particularly in the EU), including requirements for varying levels of customer notification in the event of a data breach. 

In addition, many of our commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that we must meet. In particular, we are required by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council, founded by the credit card companies, to comply with their highest level of data security standards. While we continue our efforts to meet these standards, new and revised standards may be imposed that may be difficult for us to meet and could increase our costs. 

Failure to comply with the Payment Card Industry Standards discussed above or other privacy and data use and security requirements of our partners or related laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject may harm our reputation with our customers and expose us to claims for contract breach, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, failure to address appropriately these issues could also give rise to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur further related costs and expenses. 

We could be adversely affected by conflicts overseas or terrorist attacks. 

Actual or threatened U.S. military involvement in overseas operations has, on occasion, had an adverse impact on our business, financial condition (including access to capital markets) and results of operations, and on the airline industry in general. The continuing conflict in Afghanistan, or other conflicts or events in the Middle East or elsewhere, may result in similar adverse impacts. 

The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had a material adverse impact on us. The occurrence of another terrorist attack (whether domestic or international and whether against us or another entity) could again have a material adverse impact on us. 

Our ability to operate and grow our route network in the future is dependent on the availability of adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate slots.

In order to operate our existing flight schedule and, where appropriate, add service along new or existing routes, we must be able to obtain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, slots (where applicable) and office space. Also, as airports around the world become more congested, we cannot always be sure that our plans for new service can be implemented in a commercially viable manner, given operating constraints at airports throughout our network. Further, our operating costs at airports at which we operate, including our major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that we may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. In some circumstances, such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without our approval.

Access to landing and take-off rights, or “slots,” at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by us are subject to government regulation. Certain of our major hubs in the United States and our most important international destinations, including London's Heathrow Airport, are among the most congested airports in the world and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. We currently have sufficient slots or similar authority to operate our existing flight schedule and have generally been able to acquire the necessary 

26

rights to expand flights and to change our schedules. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are subject to changes in government policy. For example, the FAA is planning a new rulemaking in 2013 to modify the current rules limiting flight operations at New York's JFK and LaGuardia airports, where we have major operations. Any limitation on our ability to acquire or maintain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, slots (where applicable) and office space could severely constrain our operations and have a material adverse effect on us. 

Our international operations are subject to economic and political instability and could be adversely affected by numerous events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control. 

We operate a global business with operations outside of the United States from which we derived approximately 40 percent of our operating revenues in 2012, as measured and reported to the DOT. Our current international activities and prospects could be adversely affected by our Chapter 11 Cases, as well as factors such as reversals or delays in the opening of foreign markets, exchange controls, currency and political risks (including changes in exchange rates and currency devaluations, which are more likely in countries with exchange controls such as Venezuela, which recently devalued its currency, and Argentina), environmental regulation, increases in taxes and fees and changes in international government regulation of our operations, including the inability to obtain or retain needed route authorities and/or slots. Fluctuations in foreign currencies can significantly affect our operating performance, as well as the value of our assets and liabilities located outside the United States.

We could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior. 

An outbreak of a disease that affects travel demand or travel behavior, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, avian flu, H1N1 virus or other illness, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by similar public health threats in the future, could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, such events could result in quarantines of our personnel or an inability to access facilities or our aircraft, which could materially adversely affect us. 

We could be adversely affected if we are unable to have satisfactory relations with any unionized or other labor work group, or if we suffer employee strikes, slowdowns or other labor-related disruptions. 

Our business is labor intensive. To the extent that we are unable to have satisfactory relations with any labor work group (unionized or independent), our operations and our ability to execute our strategic plans could be adversely affected. 

The majority of our employees are represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under this act, the collective bargaining agreements among the Company's subsidiaries and these organizations generally do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed to by the parties. Under the RLA, after receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and, if no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board (NMB) to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months, and even for several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During that period (or after), a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the parties' positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike or other job action, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new people to replace any striking workers. 

Any disruption by a labor work group (e.g., sick-out, slowdown, full or partial strike, or other job action) may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is a risk that employees may engage in such disruptions, with or without union involvement, even if such disruptions are not permitted by the RLA. In the third quarter of 2012, we experienced a labor-related operational disruption, which led to substantial flight cancellations and delays. There can be no assurance that such operational disruptions will not recur in the future.

A higher than normal number of pilot retirements and a potential shortage of pilots could adversely affect us. 

From time to time in the past, we have experienced higher than normal rates of pilot retirements, and we currently have a higher than normal number of pilots eligible for retirement. In the past, we had to reduce capacity and take other steps in an effort to reduce the impact of pilot retirements. If pilot retirements were to exceed normal levels in the future, it may adversely affect us. More generally, large numbers of pilots in the industry are approaching retirement age, and the FAA recently issued regulations that increase the flight experience required for pilots working for carriers certificated under Part 121 of the Federal Aviation Regulations. These and other factors could contribute to a shortage of qualified pilots, which could adversely affect us.

27

Increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse impact on us. 

We carry insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to our aircraft. As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of liability insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after such terrorist attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to us, or significantly increase its cost, we would be adversely affected. In addition, the failure or insolvency of one of our insurers could result in a lack of coverage.

The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines through September 30, 2013, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government were to cease providing such insurance in whole or in part, it is likely that we could obtain comparable coverage in the commercial market, but we could incur substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if such coverage is available at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate war-risk coverage at commercially reasonable rates, we would be materially adversely affected. 

We may be unable to retain key management personnel. 

We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our key management people, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them. Any inability to retain our key management people, or attract and retain additional qualified management people, could have a negative impact on us. 

We are increasingly dependent on technology and could be adversely affected by a failure or disruption of our computer, communications or other technology systems. 

We are heavily and increasingly dependent on technology and automated systems to operate our business, reduce our costs and enhance customer service. These technologies and systems include our computerized airline reservation system, flight operations system, financial planning, management and accounting systems, telecommunications systems, website, maintenance systems and check-in kiosks. In order for our operations to work efficiently, our website and automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information, and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as issue electronic tickets and process critical financial transactions, in a timely manner. The computer and communications systems on which we rely could be disrupted due to various events, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment failures, system implementation failures, software failures and computer viruses, hackers and other cyber attacks. We have taken certain steps to help reduce the risk of some (but not all) of these potential disruptions. There can be no assurance, however, that the measures we have taken are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions or failures of these systems. Any substantial or repeated failure of these systems could impact our operations and customer service, result in the theft or loss of important data, including private or sensitive information concerning our passengers and other customers, loss of revenues, and increased costs, and generally harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a failure or disruption of certain of our vital systems could limit our ability to operate our flights for an extended period of time, which would have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, we expect we will need to continue to make significant investments in technology to pursue initiatives to reduce costs and enhance customer service. If we are unable to make these investments, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. 

We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity which might result from an accident involving any of our aircraft. 

If one of our aircraft, an aircraft that is operated under our brand by one of our regional operators, or an aircraft that is operated by an airline that is one of our codeshare partners were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accident may be inadequate. In the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident involving any such aircraft could materially adversely affect the public's perception of us. Such public perception could in turn cause harm to our brand and reduce travel demand on our flights, or the flights of our codeshare partners or regional carriers. 

Interruptions or disruptions in service at one or more of our primary market airports could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Our business is heavily dependent on our operations at our primary market airports in DFW, Chicago, Miami, New York City and Los Angeles. Each of these operations includes flights that gather and distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region around the primary market to other major cities. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one or more of our primary markets could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

28

The airline industry is heavily taxed. 

The airline industry is subject to extensive government fees and taxation that negatively impact our revenue. The U.S. airline industry is one of the most heavily taxed of all industries. These fees and taxes have grown significantly in the past decade for domestic flights and various U.S. fees and taxes also are assessed on international flights. For example, as permitted by federal legislation, most major U.S. airports impose a passenger facility charge (PFC) per passenger on us. In addition, the governments of foreign countries in which we operate impose on U.S. airlines, including us, various fees and taxes, and these assessments have been increasing in number and amount in recent years. Moreover, we are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the “ticket tax,” on domestic and international air transportation. We collect the ticket tax, along with certain other U.S. and foreign taxes and user fees on air transportation (such as a per-ticket tax on passengers to fund the TSA), and pass along the collected amounts to the appropriate governmental agencies. Although these taxes are not our operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. There are continuing efforts in Congress and in other countries to raise different portions of the various taxes, fees and charges imposed on airlines and their passengers. Increases in such taxes, fees and charges could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Under recent DOT regulations, all governmental taxes and fees must be included in the fares we quote or advertise to our customers. Due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in these fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the customer. Further increases in fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel, and thus our revenues. 

We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets or our long-lived assets, causing us to record material impairment charges. 

In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we are required to test our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. In addition, we are required to test certain of our other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. 

We may be required to recognize additional impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. We can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. The value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. Such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by us or other carriers. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Interruptions or disruptions in our relationships with third-party regional airlines or other third-party service providers could have an adverse impact on us. 

We have engaged an increasing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to our business, including distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of certain customer and aircraft related functions, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. We also rely on third-party regional airlines to operate some American Eagle flights. If we experience problems with any of our third-party regional airlines, or other third-party service providers, or unexpected interruptions in their provision of services to us, the public's perception of us could be materially adversely affected. Significant problems, disruptions or interruptions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

29

ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

The Company had no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments at December 31, 2012.

ITEM 2.PROPERTIES