ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Chapter 11 Progress

As previously mentioned, the Company filed the Chapter 11 Cases on November 29, 2011. For a discussion of the Chapter 11 Cases, see Item I, "Business - Chapter 11 Proceedings" and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Since the Petition Date, the Company has made substantial progress towards transforming the Company and restoring it to industry leadership, profitability and growth, as outlined in its restructuring business plan. 

Key Achievements During 2012

•New labor agreements - American and AMR Eagle have new contracts with all of their labor groups, including the APA, APFA, AFA, ALPA, and all seven American TWU-represented groups (Fleet Service Clerks, Dispatchers, Ground School Instructors, Maintenance Control Technicians, Simulator Technicians, Mechanics and Related (M&R), and Stores) and AMR Eagle TWU-represented groups. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Renewing and optimizing the fleet - With the aircraft commitments discussed in Note 5 and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company anticipates that American’s mainline jet fleet will be the youngest in North America by 2017. In the fourth quarter of 2012, the size of American's fleet of 737-800s surpassed that of its MD-80s. In addition, American took the first delivery of its new flagship aircraft, the Boeing 777-300ER, in December 2012 and has 59 new mainline aircraft slated for delivery in 2013. 

•Customer experience enhancements - In 2012, American took several steps to enhance the customer travel experience, including redesigning the interior of its international widebody aircraft; installing Main Cabin Extra, which offers more legroom in portions of the main cabin; and announcing it will become the first domestic carrier to offer three-class service and fully lie-flat First and Business Class seats on transcontinental flights. In November 2012, the Company also announced new travel options and a new booking path on AA.com. 

•Strengthening the network -  The Company continued to build network scale and alliances by expanding service from its hubs to the domestic and international cities most desirable to high value customers and capitalizing on the JBAs established over the past two years with British Airways and Iberia, JAL and Qantas. The Company continues to strengthen its Latin American network, with increased destinations and frequencies throughout the region. In December 2012, American signed agreements to codeshare with Sao Paulo-based TAM Airlines and Bogota-based LAN Colombia. Once approved, these new codeshare relationships will provide expanded opportunities for American to serve new markets in Brazil and Colombia. Further, in 2012, oneworld welcomed new member Air Berlin and members-elect Malaysia Airlines, SriLankan Airlines, and Qatar Airways.

•Retirement benefits solution - The Company, in working with the Creditors' Committee and the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC), developed a solution that allowed the Company to freeze its defined benefit pension plans, instead of seeking termination. The freeze of these plans became effective on November 1, 2012, and the Pilot B Plan, a defined contribution plan, was terminated on November 30, 2012. Eligible employees began to receive a replacement benefit under the $uper $aver 401(k) Plan on November 1, 2012. Subsidized retiree medical coverage was discontinued for current employees November 1, 2012.

39

As noted above, on February 13, 2013, AMR entered into a Merger Agreement with US Airways. In the event that the Merger Agreement is terminated for any reason, the Chapter 11 Cases will continue and AMR will prepare and propose an alternative plan of reorganization which could contemplate, among other things, consolidation with another entity, the sale or disposition of certain of AMR's assets or AMR's emergence as a standalone entity. If AMR were to emerge on an independent basis, the Company believes that it should be able to achieve its targeted cost savings of approximately $2 billion each year and its targeted annual revenue enhancements of $1 billion by 2017, although there can be no assurance that it would be able to do so.

See Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements for additional details on the Chapter 11 Reorganization.

Other Recent Events

Merger Agreement

As noted above, on February 13, 2013, AMR entered into a Merger Agreement with US Airways. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further information, including a description of the Merger Agreement and Plan of Merger.

Other

On December 7, 2011, the Communications Workers of America (CWA) filed an application with the National Mediation Board (NMB) requesting a representation election among American's passenger service employees. The NMB subsequently concluded that the CWA had submitted a sufficient showing of interest to permit an NMB-authorized election. American, believing the NMB's decision to authorize an election was inconsistent with a new law that increased the minimum required showing of interest necessary for an election, filed a lawsuit in a Fort Worth federal district court, asking the court to declare that the new law prohibits the NMB from ordering an election unless the union has submitted the new required minimum showing of interest (50% or more of the entire employee group). 

While the court litigation was pending, the NMB issued a determination that it would proceed with the election, and that the election process would commence on June 14, 2012. American then secured a temporary restraining order prohibiting the NMB from proceeding with the election. The court subsequently issued a decision declaring that the new 50 percent standard governs the NMB's conduct with respect to the CWA's election application, and permanently enjoined the NMB from proceeding with the election unless it determined the CWA's application was supported by a showing of interest of at least fifty percent. The NMB appealed this decision to the Fifth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals, and a panel of that court vacated the district court's decision and remanded the matter to that court with instructions to dismiss the Company's complaint. American asked the full Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals to reconsider the panel's ruling, but the request was denied. American made further requests of the Court of Appeals and the U.S. Supreme Court to stop the election from proceeding pending a review on the merits, but those efforts were unsuccessful. 

The NMB proceeded with a union election among American's passenger service employees, and American cooperated with the NMB in its election process. On January 15, 2013, the NMB announced that American's passenger service employees voted to remain independent. Neither side raised challenges to the results of the election or filed charges of election interference, and the matter is now closed. 

GDS Discussion

Over the past several years, American has been developing a direct connection technology, designed to distribute its fare content and bookings capability directly to travel agents in order to achieve greater efficiencies, cost savings, and technological advances in the distribution of our services. Historically, approximately 60% of American's bookings are booked through travel agencies, which typically use one or more global distribution systems, or “GDSs”, to view fare content from American and other industry participants. American filed litigation against two of the GDSs, Sabre and Travelport, and Orbitz, a large online travel agency that is affiliated with Travelport. In that litigation, American alleged, among other things, that one or more of the defendants (1) engaged in anticompetitive business practices to preserve GDS monopoly power in the distribution of airlines services through travel agencies; (2) conspired with each other to preserve the existing GDS business model; (3) engaged in numerous actions intended to punish American for supporting a competitive alternative to the GDSs, including biasing displays against American's services and imposed large price increases, (4) organized, supported, and monitored a boycott of American services among travel agencies; and (5) interfered with American's contractual relationships, including an obligation owed by Orbitz to cooperatively work with American to receive American's content through a direct connect. 

Sabre and American settled their disputes in October 2012. Under the terms of the settlement, (i) the parties renewed their current distribution agreement for multiple years, (ii) American agreed to negotiate with Sabre for additional technology services in the future, (iii) Sabre agreed to provide a monetary payment to American, and (iv) American may continue to pursue its direct connect 

40

initiative. The terms were approved by the bankruptcy court on December 5, 2012. American's agreement with Sabre did not resolve claims brought by or against Travelport and Orbitz. American is continuing to pursue federal antitrust claims against both Travelport and Orbitz, as well as breach of contract and tort claims against Travelport. 

On November 1, 2010, after Orbitz refused to receive American's content through American's newest version of direct connect, American notified Orbitz that it intended to terminate its contracts and agency relationship. On November 5, 2010, Travelport, the GDS used by Orbitz, filed a lawsuit against American seeking a ruling that a notice of termination delivered by American to Orbitz breached American's content distribution agreement with Travelport, and Travelport subsequently obtained a preliminary injunction which precluded American from terminating its relationship with Orbitz prior to September 1, 2011. On December 3, 2010, Travelport doubled the booking fees it charges American for some international point-of-sale bookings through Travelport, and made it more difficult for travel agents to find American's fares on the Travelport system display. We believe these actions violated our agreement with Travelport. In response, American filed counterclaims against Travelport for breach of contract, and announced that it would charge travel agencies for bookings through Travelport in an effort to offset the booking fee increase. That surcharge was never implemented. American and Travelport subsequently entered into short term extensions of its agreement, which also provides that neither American nor Orbitz will terminate their agency relationship during the term of these extensions. The litigation initiated by Travelport in response to American's decision to terminate Orbitz, as described under Item 3, "Legal Proceedings", is currently stayed as a result of the Chapter 11 filing. American's federal antitrust claims, which are pending in a different court, have not been stayed during the pendency of the bankruptcy. We will vigorously pursue our claims and defenses in both these actions. However, there can be no assurance that we will ultimately prevail in the lawsuit filed by Travelport or on our counterclaims, or in the lawsuit that American has filed against Travelport or Oribtz. In addition, there can be no assurance that American, Travelport, and Orbitz will enter into acceptable long term agreements.

On February 5, 2013, Travelport filed a motion for reconsideration of the court's August 16, 2012 order granting American's motion to dismiss and to amend its counterclaims to assert a new claim against American. The proposed new counterclaim alleges that American participated in a conspiracy with rival airlines and Farelogix (a technology provider to American) to reduce and eliminate competition from Travelport and other GDSs and to coordinate their negotiations with Travelport and other GDSs. Based on this new proposed counterclaim, Travelport seeks: (1) a decree that American violated, and threatens to continue violating, 15 U.S.C. § 1; (2) a permanent injunction prohibiting American from conspiring with rival airlines regarding direct connects, distribution strategy, or on negotiations with GDSs; (3) a permanent injunction requiring American to provides its fare information to Travelport and prohibiting American from terminating a travel agency's ticketing authority, denying a travel agency access to American's fare information, or taking any other punitive action against a travel agency because it chooses to use Travelport instead of American's direct connect; (4) an award of three times Travelport's actual damages; and (5) an award of all costs in the action, including attorneys' fees and interest. Travelport does not specify the amount of its actual damages. 

While we believe that some of the bookings through Orbitz and Travelport have transitioned or will transition to other distribution channels, such as other travel agencies, metasearch sites and American's AA.com web site, it is not possible at this time to estimate what the ultimate impact would be to our business if we are unsuccessful in resolving one or more of these matters. If as a result of these matters it becomes more difficult for our customers to find and book flights on American, we could be put at a competitive disadvantage against our competitors and this may result in lower bookings. If we are unable to sell American inventory through any or all of these channels, our level of bookings, business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

Contingencies

The Company has certain contingencies resulting from litigation and claims incident to the ordinary course of business. Management believes, after considering a number of factors, including (but not limited to) the information currently available, the views of legal counsel, the nature of contingencies to which the Company is subject and prior experience, that the ultimate disposition of the litigation (please see Item 3, "Legal Proceedings") and claims will not materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. When appropriate, the Company accrues for these contingencies based on its assessments of the likely outcomes of the related matters. The amounts of these contingencies could increase or decrease in the near term, based on revisions to those assessments. See also "Other Information" and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the claims resolution process.

As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, virtually all prepetition pending litigation against the Company is stayed. 

41

Financial Highlights

The Company recorded a consolidated net loss of $1.9 billion in 2012 compared to a net loss of $2.0 billion in 2011. The Company’s consolidated net loss reflects $2.2 billion of charges to reorganization items, net and significant year-over-year increases in fuel prices, offset by higher operating revenues. Consolidated passenger revenue increased by $1.0 billion to $21.7 billion in 2012 compared to the prior year driven by a strong yield environment and increased load factors. Cargo and other revenues decreased by $110 million to $3.2 billion for 2012 compared to the prior year. Mainline passenger unit revenues increased 5.6 percent in 2012 due to a 4.5 percent increase in passenger yield year-over-year. This also reflects an increase in load factor of approximately 0.9 points compared to 2011.

Charges to reorganization items, net, of $2.2 billion for 2012 are primarily from estimated claims associated with restructuring the financing arrangements for certain debt and aircraft, including an estimated net loss of $276 million related to the modification of the financing arrangement for the Embraer RJ-140 and RJ-145 aircraft, other claim settlements and professional fees. Fuel prices continued the trend set in 2011, with prices remaining high and extremely volatile. The Company paid an average of $3.20 per gallon in 2012 compared to an average of $3.01 per gallon in 2011, including the effects of hedging. As a result, fuel expense, taking into account the impact of fuel hedging, increased $413 million year-over-year to $8.7 billion. Hedging gains reduced fuel expense by approximately $4 million. Other operating expenses were lower reflecting the initial impact of the Chapter 11 restructuring process.

In addition, the Company’s 2012 results were impacted by the following items:

•The Company recognized a $569 million non-cash income tax benefit during the fourth quarter of 2012 related to gains in other comprehensive income. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.

•In 2012, the Company recorded $361 million of charges for severance related costs associated with planned reductions in certain work groups.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Company's fourth quarter results include a $280 million benefit from a settlement of a commercial dispute.

The Company recorded a consolidated net loss of $2.0 billion in 2011 compared to a net loss of $471 million in 2010. The Company’s consolidated net loss reflected significant year-over-year increases in fuel prices, partially offset by higher operating revenues. Consolidated passenger revenue increased by $1.6 billion to $20.7 billion in 2011 compared to the prior year. Cargo and other revenues increased by $225 million to $3.3 billion for 2011 compared to the prior year. Mainline passenger unit revenues increased 6.3 percent in 2011 due to a 6.2 percent increase in passenger yield year-over-year. This also reflected an increase in load factor of approximately 0.1 percent compared to 2010.

The increase in total operating revenue was offset by significantly higher year-over-year fuel prices. Fuel prices increased significantly through the second quarter and remained high and extremely volatile through year-end 2011. The Company paid an average of $3.01 per gallon in 2011 compared to an average of 2.32 per gallon in 2010, including the effects of hedging. As a result, fuel expense, taking into account the impact of fuel hedging, increased $1.9 billion year-over-year to $8.3 billion. Hedging gains reduced fuel expense by approximately $335 million.

In addition, the Company’s 2011 results were negatively impacted by the following items:

•In the first quarter of 2011, the Company incurred approximately $31 million in non-recurring non-cash charges related to certain sale/leaseback transactions.

•Also in the first quarter of 2011, several events transpired which adversely impacted system operations, including extreme weather events in January and February, a catastrophic earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and a fire at Miami International Airport that adversely affected American’s aircraft fueling capabilities at the airport. These events, combined with the effect of the Company’s efforts to improve distribution of the Company’s products (as described under the GDS discussion above), resulted in reduced revenue in the first quarter.

•The Company’s second quarter revenue results reflected approximately $60 million in lower revenue due to the extreme weather events during the quarter in Dallas-Fort Worth and the continued impact of the earthquake that struck Japan in March 2011.

•In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Debtors recognized $118 million in reorganization items related to expenses (including professional fees) and provisions for losses that are realized or incurred in the Chapter 11 Cases.

•Also in the fourth quarter of 2011, special charges and other items consisted of $768 million, including $725 million 

42

related to the impairment of certain aircraft and gates and a $43 million revenue reduction as a result of a decrease in the breakage assumption related to the AAdvantage frequent flier liability.

•The Company reduced capacity by approximately 3% in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to the uncertain economic environment, high fuel costs, and higher than normal pilot retirements. As a result, the Company’s results were adversely impacted by approximately $55 million in the quarter.

The Company recorded a net loss of $471 million in 2010 compared to a net loss of $1.5 billion in 2009. The Company’s smaller net loss in 2010 reflected a strengthening of the revenue environment in a weak global economy which led to higher passenger revenues, partially offset by higher fuel prices. In addition to higher fuel expenses, the Company’s 2010 results were negatively impacted by $81 million in special items. The special items consisted of $53 million related to the Venezuelan currency remeasurement in January 2010 and a $28 million non-cash impairment of certain routes in Latin America.

43

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The matters described herein, to the extent that they relate to future events or expectations, may be significantly affected by the Chapter 11 Cases. Those proceedings will involve, or may result in, various restrictions on our activities, limitations on financing, the need to consult with the Creditors’ Committee and other key stakeholders and to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval for various matters, and uncertainty as to relationships with vendors, suppliers, customers, labor and others with whom we may conduct or seek to conduct business. The Debtors cannot predict the impact, if any, that its Chapter 11 Cases might have on these obligations. For further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

Cash, Short-Term Investments and Restricted Assets

At December 31, 2012, the Company had $3.9 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments and $850 million in restricted cash and short-term investments, both at fair value, versus $4.0 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments and $738 million in restricted cash and short-term investments at December 31, 2011.

The Company has restricted cash and short-term investments related primarily to collateral held to support projected workers compensation obligations and funds held for certain tax obligations.

As of December 31, 2012, approximately $527 million of the Company's cash and short-term investments balances were held in foreign bank accounts, of which $413 million is held in Venezuela. On February 8, 2013, the Venezuelan Government devalued its currency from 4.3 bolivars per U.S. dollar to 6.3 bolivars per U.S. dollar. Subsequently, the Venezuelan Government decreed that for applications of foreign exchange related to international air transportation operations filed with the Venezuelan Government on or before February 8, 2013, the rate of 4.30 bolivars per U.S. dollar would be applied. As a result, the Company does not expect to recognize a material loss related to the currency remeasurement in February 2013. The Company does not expect any significant ongoing impact of the currency devaluation on its operations in Venezuela, but there can be no assurances to that effect. As further discussed in the Risk Factors included under Item 1A, currency is subject to risks including exchange controls, changes in foreign exchange rates and currency devaluation.

The Company’s unrestricted short-term investment portfolio consists of a variety of what the Company believes are highly liquid, lower risk instruments including money market funds, government agency investments, repurchase agreements, short-term obligations, corporate obligations, bank notes, certificates of deposit and time deposits. AMR’s objectives for its investment portfolio are (1) the safety of principal, (2) liquidity maintenance, (3) yield maximization, and (4) the full investment of all available funds. The Company’s risk management policy further emphasizes superior credit quality (primarily based on short-term ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations) in selecting and maintaining investments in its portfolio and enforces limits on the proportion of funds invested with one issuer, one industry, or one type of instrument. The Company regularly assesses the market risks of its portfolio, and believes that its established policies and business practices adequately limit those risks. As a result, the Company does not anticipate any material adverse impact from these risks.

Certain of the Company’s debt financing agreements contain loan to value ratio covenants and require the Company to periodically appraise the collateral. Pursuant to such agreements, if the loan to value ratio exceeds a specified threshold, the Company may be required to subject additional qualifying collateral (which in some cases may include cash collateral) or, in the alternative, to pay down such financing, in whole or in part, with premium (if any). One of such agreements also includes covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to merge, consolidate, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness, issue preferred stock, make investments and pay dividends. In addition, under such agreement, if American fails to maintain a collateral ratio of 1.5 to 1.0, American must pay additional interest on the related notes (which bear interest at 7.5% per annum) at the rate of 2% per annum until the collateral coverage ratio equals at least 1.5 to 1.0. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.

Significant Indebtedness and Future Financing

Our indebtedness and our ability to obtain sufficient financing are significant risks to the Company as discussed more fully in the Risk Factors included under Item 1A.

The Chapter 11 petitions triggered defaults on substantially all debt obligations of the Debtors. However, under section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code, the commencement of a Chapter 11 case automatically stays most creditor actions against the Debtors’ estates.

The Company currently has financing commitments that, subject to certain conditions, cover (1) 77 of the 86 of the Boeing 737 aircraft scheduled to be delivered to it through 2016 (and the Company is currently seeking to arrange financing for the remainder of those aircraft) and (2) all of the 110 Airbus A320 Family aircraft scheduled to be delivered to it through 2016. In addition, the Company has arranged up to $750 million of financing that it may apply to any of up to eight Boeing 787 aircraft scheduled to be delivered to it, including the 26 Boeing 787 aircraft scheduled to be delivered to it through 2016, and the Company expects that it may seek to arrange alternative or additional financing for those aircraft. The Company does not have committed financing for 

44

any of the Boeing 777-300ER aircraft scheduled to be delivered to it (all of which are scheduled to be delivered during 2013-2016), and plans to finance these aircraft in the future.

In 2013, including liabilities subject to compromise, the Company will be contractually required to make approximately $1.6 billion of principal payments on long-term debt and approximately $43 million in principal payments on capital leases, and the Company expects to spend approximately $3.1 billion on capital expenditures, including aircraft commitments.

As discussed above, under “Chapter 11 Progress”, we have been using the benefits afforded by the Bankruptcy Code to restructure the terms of much of our indebtedness. We cannot predict at this time the outcome of our efforts to restructure our indebtedness. It is possible that holders of our unsecured indebtedness may lose all or a substantial portion of their investment in our unsecured indebtedness upon the implementation of any plan of reorganization that is ultimately accepted by the requisite majority of creditors and approved by the Bankruptcy Court.

See Note 5 and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the Company's aircraft acquisition commitments, payments, options and financing agreements. 

Credit Ratings

AMR’s and American’s credit ratings are significantly below investment grade. The outcome of the Chapter 11 Cases, which cannot be determined at this time, could further increase the Company’s borrowing or other costs and further restrict the availability of future financing.

Credit Card Processing and Other Reserves

American has agreements with a number of credit card companies and processors to accept credit cards for the sale of air travel and other services. Under certain of these agreements, the credit card processor may hold back a reserve from American’s credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including the failure of American to maintain certain levels of liquidity (as specified in each agreement).

Under such agreements, the amount of the reserve that may be required generally is based on the processor’s exposure to the Company under the applicable agreement and, in the case a reserve is required because of AMR’s failure to maintain a certain level of liquidity, the amount of such liquidity. As of December 31, 2012, the Company was not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. If circumstances were to occur that would allow the credit card processor to require the Company to maintain a reserve, the Company’s liquidity would be negatively impacted.

Pension Funding Obligation

The Company is required to make minimum contributions to its defined benefit pension plans under the minimum funding requirements of ERISA, the Pension Funding Equity Act of 2004, the Pension Protection Act of 2006, and the Pension Relief Act of 2010. 

As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, AMR contributed $272 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2012 to cover post-petition periods. As a result of only contributing the post-petition portion of the required contribution, the PBGC filed a lien against certain assets of the Company. The Company’s 2013 contribution to its defined benefit pension plans is subject to the Chapter 11 proceedings. 

Cash Flow Activity

At December 31, 2012, the Company had $3.9 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments, which is a decrease of $109 million from the balance as of December 31, 2011. Net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2012 was $1.3 billion, as compared to $680 million during 2011. The increase is primarily the result of a stronger revenue environment and cost savings resulting from the Company’s Chapter 11 Cases as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

The Company made debt and capital lease payments of $1.3 billion and invested $1.9 billion in capital expenditures in 2012 Capital expenditures primarily consisted of new aircraft and certain aircraft modifications.

Due to the current value of the Company’s derivative contracts, some agreements with counterparties require collateral to be deposited by the counterparty. As of December 31, 2012, the cash collateral posted by AMR for such counterparties was approximately $0.6 million as compared to cash collateral held of $0.5 million at December 31, 2011. Cash posted at December 31, 2012 is included in other assets. As a result of movements in fuel prices, the cash collateral amounts held by AMR or the counterparties to such contracts, as the case may be, can vary significantly.

45

As a result of the Terrorist Attacks and the subsequent liability protections provided for by the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (the Stabilization Act), the Company recorded a liability for the Terrorist Attacks claims equal to the related insurance receivable due to American. The Stabilization Act provides that, notwithstanding any other provision of law, liability for all claims, whether compensatory or punitive, arising from the Terrorist Attacks, against any air carrier shall not exceed the liability coverage maintained by the air carrier. In the second quarter of 2011, the Company received $576 million in insurance proceeds as partial settlement of claims related to the Terrorist Attacks. The Company used these funds to pay a portion of its share of the associated liability. Reflecting this settlement, the remaining liability, and the amount of the offsetting receivable as of December 31, 2012, were each $1.1 billion.

Compensation On November 27, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the 2013 Annual Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) for non-officer managers of American. This annual bonus plan provides for the payment of awards in the event certain financial metrics are satisfied. The Company also adopted a profit sharing plan for 2013, which will pay awards to certain employees based on a percentage of pre-tax income.

Working Capital AMR (principally American) historically operates with a working capital deficit. In addition, the Company has historically relied heavily on external financing to fund capital expenditures. More recently, the Company has also relied on external financing to fund operating losses, employee pension obligations and debt maturities.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements American has determined that it holds a significant variable interest in, but is not the primary beneficiary of, certain trusts that are the lessors under 19 of its aircraft operating leases. These leases contain a fixed price purchase option, which allows American to purchase the aircraft at a predetermined price on a specified date. However, American does not guarantee the residual value of the aircraft. As of December 31, 2012, future lease payments required under these leases totaled $98 million.

Certain special facility revenue bonds have been issued by certain municipalities primarily to purchase equipment and improve airport facilities that are leased by American and accounted for as operating leases. In accordance with various orders of the Bankruptcy Court, special facility revenue bond claims (totaling approximately $1.1 billion) in connection with the Alliance Airport, Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport and Luis Munoz Marin International Airport in San Juan are expected to be treated as general unsecured claims. Claims relating to special facility revenue bonds at the Newark Airport (totaling approximately $18 million) and additional special facility revenue bonds at Luis Munoz Marin International Airport (totaling approximately $36 million) are also expected to be treated as general unsecured claims. Approximately $486 million of the special facility revenue bonds that had not been compromised as of December 31, 2012 (with total future payments of approximately $822 million as of December 31, 2012) are guaranteed by American, AMR, or both. Approximately $112 million of these special facility revenue bonds contain mandatory tender provisions that require American to make operating lease payments sufficient to repurchase the bonds in 2014. Although American has the right to remarket the bonds, there can be no assurance that these bonds will be successfully remarketed. Any payments to redeem or purchase bonds that are not remarketed would generally reduce existing rent leveling accruals or are considered prepaid facility rentals and would reduce future operating lease commitments.

In addition, the Company had other operating leases, primarily for aircraft and airport facilities, with total future lease payments of $8.1 billion as of December 31, 2012. Entering into aircraft leases allows the Company to obtain aircraft without immediate cash outflows.

46

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes the Company’s obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2012. The Debtors are still in the process of evaluating their executory contracts in order to determine which contracts will be assumed, assumed and assigned, or rejected in their Chapter 11 Cases. Therefore, obligations as currently quantified in the table below and in the text immediately following the footnotes to the table will continue to change. The table below does not include contracts that have been successfully rejected through the Chapter 11 Cases. The table also does not include commitments that are contingent on events or other factors that are uncertain or unknown at this time.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Certain special facility revenue bonds issued by municipalities—which are supported by operating leases executed by American—are guaranteed by AMR and/or American. The special facility revenue bonds with mandatory tender provisions discussed above are included in this table based on lease payment terms rather than their mandatory tender provision date. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

2 Additional information about the Company’s obligations is included in Note 5 and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.

3 The table reflects minimum required payments under capacity purchase agreements between American and its third party regional airlines. See Note 5 and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on capacity purchase agreements.

4 Amounts represent contractual amounts due, including interest. Interest on variable rate debt was estimated based on the current rate at December 31, 2012.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6 Includes noncancelable commitments to purchase goods or services, primarily information technology related support. The Company has made estimates as to the timing of certain payments primarily for construction related costs. The actual timing of payments may vary from these estimates. Substantially all of the Company’s purchase orders issued for other purchases in the ordinary course of business contain a 30-day cancellation clause that allows the Company to cancel an order with 30 days notice.

7 Includes minimum pension contributions based on actuarially determined estimates and other postretirement benefit payments based on estimated payments through 2022. These payments are subject to the Chapter 11 proceedings. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.

8 Total contractual obligations do not include long-term contracts that represent a variable expense (based on levels of operation) or where short-term cancellation provisions exist.

Although the Debtors are not generally permitted to make any payments on pre-petition obligations as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Debtors have made 1110(a) Elections or reached agreements with certain aircraft financing parties under section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code and received approval from the Bankruptcy Court to make certain payments on financings of certain aircraft.

The Debtors cannot predict the impact, if any, that the Chapter 11 Cases might have on these obligations. For further information 

47

regarding the Chapter 11 Cases, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements and the information contained in “Chapter 11 Progress” above.

48

Results of Operations

Revenues

2012 Compared to 2011 The Company’s revenues increased approximately $0.9 billion, or 3.7 percent, to $24.9 billion in 2012 compared to 2011 driven by a strong yield environment and increased load factors. American’s passenger revenues increased by 4.4 percent, or $0.8 billion, on a 1.1 percent decrease in capacity (available seat mile) (ASM). Labor related operational disruptions and Hurricane Sandy and the early November snowstorm in the northeast had an estimated impact on the Company's 2012 passenger revenues of $120 million and $65 million, respectively. American’s passenger load factor increased 0.9 points while passenger yield increased by 4.5 percent to 14.83 cents. This resulted in an increase in passenger revenue per available seat mile (RASM) of 5.6 percent to 12.28 cents. American derived approximately 60 percent of its passenger revenues from domestic operations and approximately 40 percent from international operations (flights serving international destinations). Following is additional information regarding American’s domestic and international RASM and capacity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s Regional Affiliates include two wholly owned subsidiaries, American Eagle Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc., and two third party regional airlines, Chautauqua Airlines, Inc. (Chautauqua) and SkyWest Airlines, Inc. 

Regional Affiliates’ passenger revenues increased $190 million, or 7.0 percent, to $2.9 billion as a result of higher yield and increased traffic. Regional Affiliates’ traffic increased 3.2 percent to 10.2 billion revenue passenger miles (RPMs), on a capacity increase of 0.7 percent to 13.6 billion ASMs, resulting in a 1.9 point increase in passenger load factor to 75.1 percent.

Cargo revenues decreased 4.8 percent, or $34 million, to $669 million primarily as a result of decreased freight and mail traffic and yields.

Other revenues decreased 2.9 percent, or $76 million, to $2.5 billion primarily due to decreased revenue associated with the sale of mileage credits in the AAdvantage frequent flyer program and decreases in certain passenger service charge volumes and fees.

2011 Compared to 2010 The Company’s revenues increased approximately $1.8 billion, or 8.2 percent, to $24.0 billion in 2011 compared to 2010. American’s passenger revenues increased by 7.1 percent, or $1.2 billion, on a 0.7 percent increase in capacity (available seat mile) (ASM). The Company’s 2011 passenger revenues reflect a $43 million reduction as a result of a decrease in the breakage assumption related to the AAdvantage frequent flier liability. American’s passenger load factor increased 0.1 percent while passenger yield increased by 6.2 percent to 14.19 cents. This resulted in an increase in passenger revenue per available seat mile (RASM) of 6.3 percent to 11.63 cents. American derived approximately 60 percent of its passenger revenues from domestic operations and approximately 40 percent from international operations (flights serving international destinations). Following is additional information regarding American’s domestic and international RASM and capacity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Regional Affiliates’ passenger revenues increased $397 million, or 17.1 percent, to $2.7 billion as a result of higher yield and increased traffic. Regional Affiliates’ traffic increased 12.3 percent to 9.9 billion revenue passenger miles (RPMs), on a capacity increase of 10.9 percent to 13.5 billion ASMs, resulting in a 0.9 point increase in passenger load factor to 73.3 percent.

Cargo revenues increased 4.5 percent, or $31 million, to $703 million primarily as a result of increased freight yields.

49

Other revenues increased 8.1 percent, or $195 million, to $2.6 billion primarily due to increased revenue associated with the sale of mileage credits in the AAdvantage frequent flyer program and increases in certain passenger service charge volumes and fees. 

Operating Expenses

2012 Compared to 2011 The Company’s total operating expenses decreased 1.1 percent, or $0.3 billion, to $24.7 billion in 2012 compared to 2011. American’s mainline operating expenses per ASM decreased 0.2 percent to 14.27 cents. The decrease in operating expense was largely due to decreased aircraft and facility rent as leases are modified during the Chapter 11 restructuring process. Decreases in operating expenses were largely offset by a year-over-year increase in fuel prices in 2012 compared to 2011. Fuel expense was the Company’s largest single expense category in 2012 and the price increase resulted in $514 million in incremental year-over-year fuel expense in 2012 (based on the year-over-year increase in the average price per gallon multiplied by gallons consumed, inclusive of the impact of fuel hedging). Further increases in fuel prices and/or disruptions in the supply of fuel would further materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company also incurred charges of $361 million for severance related costs associated with planned reductions in certain work groups. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Other rentals and landing fees decreased primarily as a result of the Company’s Chapter 11 Cases as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

(c)Maintenance, materials and repairs increased primarily due to timing of materials and repairs expenses.

(d)Aircraft rental expense decreased primarily as a result of the Company’s Chapter 11 proceedings as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

(e)Special charges consist of severance related charges of $361 million and write off of lease hold improvements on aircraft and at airport facilities that were rejected during the Chapter 11 process.

2011 Compared to 2010 The Company’s total operating expenses increased 14.5 percent, or $3.2 billion, to $25 billion in 2011 compared to 2010. American’s mainline operating expenses per ASM increased 13.4 percent to 14.30 cents. The increase in operating expense was largely due to a year-over-year increase in fuel prices in 2011 compared to 2010 and $725 million related to the impairment of certain aircraft and gates in 2011. Fuel expense was the Company’s largest single expense category in 2011 and the price increase resulted in $1.9 billion in incremental year-over-year fuel expense in 2011 (based on the year-over-year increase in the average price per gallon multiplied by gallons consumed, inclusive of the impact of fuel hedging). Further increases in fuel prices and/or disruptions in the supply of fuel would further materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The remaining increase in operating expense was primarily due to labor related costs, revenue related expenses, such as credit card fees and booking fees and commissions, and increased aircraft rent related to the Company’s fleet renewal plan.

50

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Commissions, booking fees and credit card expenses increased due to an 8.2 percent increase in operating revenues.

(c)Aircraft rental expense increased primarily due to new aircraft deliveries in 2011 and 2010.

(d)Food service expense increased primarily due to increased international flying.

(e)Special charges in 2011 consist of $725 million related to the impairment of certain aircraft and gates.

(f)Other operating expenses increased primarily due to increases in professional and technical fees and sale-leaseback losses.

Other Income (Expense)

Other income (expense) consists of Interest income and expense, Interest capitalized and Miscellaneous—net.

2012 Compared to 2011 A decrease in short-term investment balances caused a decrease in interest income of 1.7 percent, to $26 million in 2012. Interest expense decreased $164 million or 19.8 percent, to $662 million primarily as a result of the Company’s Chapter 11 Cases as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Miscellaneous - net increased to $242 million primarily as a result of a settlement of a commercial dispute. 

2011 Compared to 2010 Interest income for 2011 and 2010 was $26 million. Interest expense increased $2.6 million, or 0.3 percent, to $826 million primarily as a result of increases in the Company’s long-term debt balance.

Reorganization Items, Net

Reorganization items refer to revenues, expenses (including professional fees), realized gains and losses and provisions for losses that are realized or incurred as a direct result of the Chapter 11 Cases. The following table summarizes the components included in reorganization items, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts include allowed claims (claims approved by the Bankruptcy Court) and estimated allowed claims relating to the rejection or modification of financings related to aircraft. The Debtors record an estimated claim associated with the rejection or modification of a financing when the applicable motion is filed with the Bankruptcy Court to reject or modify such financing and the Debtors believe that it is probable the motion will be approved, and there is sufficient information to estimate the claim. Modifications of the financings related to aircraft remain subject to conditions, including reaching agreement on definitive documentation. See above, “Special Protection Applicable to Leases and Secured Financing of Aircraft and Aircraft Equipment,” for further information.

51

(2) Amounts include allowed claims (claims approved by the Bankruptcy Court) and estimated allowed claims relating to entry of orders treating as unsecured claims with respect to facility agreements supporting certain issuances of special facility revenue bonds. The Debtors record an estimated claim associated with the treatment of claims with respect to facility agreements when the applicable motion is filed with the Bankruptcy Court and the Debtors believe that it is probable that the motion will be approved, and there is sufficient information to estimate the claim. See above, “Rejection of Executory Contracts,” for further information.

Claims related to reorganization items are reflected in liabilities subject to compromise on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2012.

Income Tax Benefit

During 2012, the Company generated a pre-tax loss of approximately $2.4 billion and other comprehensive income of approximately $1.6 billion. In accordance with accounting standards, the Company's net zero tax provision is required to be allocated between operating loss and accumulated other comprehensive income. Application of this guidance required the recognition of a non-cash income tax benefit of $569 million in operating results, offset by a $569 million charge to other comprehensive income for the year. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the allocation of income tax benefit to Operating income and Accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company did not record a net tax provision (benefit) associated with its net loss for 2011 due to the Company providing a valuation allowance, as discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.

Operating Statistics

The following table provides statistical information for American and Regional Affiliates for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(*) Excludes $3.0 billion, $3.1 billion and $2.7 billion of expense incurred related to Regional Affiliates in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Outlook

Capacity Guidance

AMR estimates consolidated capacity in the first quarter of 2013 to be down 1.7 percent versus the first quarter of 2012.

Factors contributing to this estimated reduction in capacity include the absence of Leap Day in 2013, and progress American has made in implementing its Main Cabin Extra program removing seats from the coach cabin. To date, American has completed the retrofit of its Boeing 757 and 767 fleets, has completed approximately half of its 737 fleet, and will commence the retrofit of the MD-80 fleet in January 2013 with completion targeted for the second quarter. 

52

As previously reported, American experienced an unusually high number of pilot retirements in the fall of 2011 that resulted in capacity reductions for the period November 2011 to February 2012. 

Absent the impact of the capacity reductions in January and February of 2012 due to pilot retirements, consolidated capacity in the first quarter of 2013 is estimated to be down 3.4 percent year-over-year.

First Quarter Unit Costs Guidance

AMR will continue to realize restructuring related savings and estimates that in the first quarter of 2013, unit costs will improve year-over-year, despite a capacity headwind due to consolidated capacity decreasing by 1.7 percent and lapping some restructuring related savings that impacted the first quarter of last year.

OTHER INFORMATION

Basis of Presentation

See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the basis of presentation.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of the Company’s financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company believes its estimates and assumptions are reasonable; however, actual results and the timing of the recognition of such amounts could differ from those estimates. The Company has identified the following critical accounting policies and estimates used by management in the preparation of the Company’s financial statements: claims resolution process, long-lived assets, international slots and route authorities, passenger revenue, frequent flyer program, stock compensation, pensions and retiree medical and other benefits, income taxes and derivatives accounting.

Claims Resolution Process

Bankruptcy Rule 3003(c)(3) requires the Bankruptcy Court to fix the time within which proofs of claim must be filed in a Chapter 11 case pursuant to section 501 of the Bankruptcy Code. This Bankruptcy Rule also provides that any creditor who asserts a claim against the Debtors that arose prior to the Petition Date and whose claim (i) is not listed on the Debtors' schedules or (ii) is listed on the schedules as disputed, contingent, or unliquidated, must file a proof of claim. On May 4, 2012, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order that established July 16, 2012 at 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) (the Bar Date) as the deadline to file proofs of claim against any Debtor. More information regarding the filing of proofs of claim can be obtained at www.amrcaseinfo.com. Information on that website is not incorporated into or otherwise made a part of this report. 

As of February 13, 2013, approximately 13,366 claims totaling about $290.0 billion have been filed with the Bankruptcy Court against the Debtors. Of those claims, approximately 350 claims aggregating approximately $59 million were filed after the Bar Date. We expect new and amended claims to be filed in the future, including claims amended to assign values to claims originally filed with no designated value. We have identified, and we expect to continue to identify, many claims that we believe should be disallowed by the Bankruptcy Court because they are duplicative, are without merit, are overstated or for other reasons, including that the claims were filed after the Bar Date. As of February 13, 2013, the Bankruptcy Court has disallowed approximately $100.2 billion of claims and has not yet ruled on our other objections to claims, the disputed portions of which aggregate to an additional $14.8 billion. We expect to continue to file objections in the future. Because the process of analyzing and objecting to claims is ongoing, the amount of disallowed claims may increase significantly in the future. The Debtors have recorded amounts for claims for which there was sufficient information to estimate the claim. 

Differences between amounts scheduled by the Debtors and claims by creditors will be investigated and resolved in connection with the claims resolution process. In light of the expected number of creditors, the claims resolution process may take considerable time to complete. Accordingly, the ultimate number and amount of allowed claims is not presently known, nor can the ultimate recovery with respect to allowed claims be presently ascertained. 

Long-lived assets

The Company has approximately $14.3 billion of long-lived assets as of December 31, 2012, including approximately $13.4 billion related to flight equipment and other fixed assets. In addition to the original cost of these assets, the recorded value of the Company’s fixed assets is impacted by a number of estimates made by the Company, including estimated useful lives, salvage values and the Company’s determination as to whether aircraft are temporarily or permanently grounded. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company records impairment charges on long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate that the 

53

assets may be impaired, the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount of those assets and the net book value of the assets exceeds their estimated fair value. In making these determinations, the Company uses certain assumptions, including, but not limited to: (i) estimated fair value of the assets; and (ii) estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the assets, generally evaluated at a fleet level, which are based on additional assumptions such as asset utilization, length of service and estimated salvage values. A change in the Company’s fleet plan has been the primary indicator that has resulted in an impairment charge in the past.

The majority of American’s fleet types are depreciated over 30 years. It is possible that the ultimate lives of the Company’s aircraft will be significantly different than the current estimate due to unforeseen events in the future that impact the Company’s fleet plan, including positive or negative developments in the areas described above. For example, operating the aircraft for a longer period will result in higher maintenance, fuel and other operating costs than if the Company replaced the aircraft. 

In the second quarter of 2011, American entered into agreements with Airbus S.A.S. (Airbus) and The Boeing Company (Boeing) under which it plans to acquire 460 narrowbody aircraft from the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320 families during the period 2013-2022. In connection with these Boeing and Airbus aircraft agreements and the Company’s anticipated acceleration of its fleet renewal and replacement plan, the Company recorded an impairment charge in 2011 to write its Boeing 757 aircraft and certain related long-lived assets down to their estimated fair values. For further information regarding the Boeing and Airbus agreements, see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. 

International Slots and Route Authorities

The Company performs annual impairment tests on its international slots and route authorities, which are indefinite life intangible assets and as a result they are not amortized. As discussed above, the Company also performs impairment tests when events and circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. These tests are primarily based on estimates of discounted future cash flows, using assumptions based on historical results adjusted to reflect the Company’s best estimate of future market and operating conditions. The net carrying value of assets not recoverable is reduced to fair value. The Company’s estimates of fair value represent its best estimate based on industry trends and reference to market rates and transactions.

The Company had recorded international slots and route authorities of $708 million as of December 31, 2012. The Company estimates the fair value of these assets based on market information and estimated future cash flows. The Company believes its estimates and assumptions are reasonable; however, given the significant uncertainty regarding how open skies agreements will ultimately affect the Company’s operations at Heathrow and Narita, and other international locations that are evaluating “open skies”, as well as volatility in the revenue and fuel environment, the actual results could differ from those estimates. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the valuation of the Company’s routes.

Passenger revenue

Passenger ticket sales are initially recorded as a component of Air traffic liability. Revenue derived from ticket sales is recognized at the time service is provided. However, due to various factors, including the industry’s pricing structure and interline agreements throughout the industry, certain amounts are recognized in revenue using estimates regarding both the timing of the revenue recognition and the amount of revenue to be recognized, including breakage. These estimates are generally based upon the evaluation of historical trends, including the use of regression analysis and other methods to model the outcome of future events based on the Company’s historical experience, and are recognized at the scheduled time of departure. The Company’s estimation techniques have been applied consistently from year to year. However, due to changes in the Company’s ticket refund policy and changes in the travel profile of customers, historical trends may not be representative of future results.

Frequent flyer program

American uses the incremental cost method to account for the portion of its frequent flyer liability incurred when AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American or its regional affiliates.

The Company considers breakage in its incremental cost calculation and recognizes breakage on AAdvantage miles sold over the estimated period of usage for sold miles that are ultimately redeemed. The Company calculates its breakage estimate using separate breakage rates for miles earned by flying on American and miles earned through other companies who have purchased AAdvantage miles for distribution to their customers, due to differing behavior patterns. Management considers historical patterns of account breakage to be a useful indicator when estimating future breakage. Future program redemption opportunities can significantly alter customer behavior from historical patterns with respect to inactive accounts. Such changes may result in material changes to the frequent flyer liability, as well as recognized revenues from the program. 

American includes fuel, food, and passenger insurance costs in the calculation of incremental cost. These estimates are generally updated based upon the Company’s 12-month historical average of such costs. American also accrues a frequent flyer liability for 

54

the mileage credits expected to be used for travel on participating airlines based on historical usage patterns and contractual rates.

Revenue earned from selling AAdvantage miles to other companies is recognized in two components. The first component represents the revenue for air transportation sold and is valued at fair value. This revenue is deferred along with revenue related to expected breakage of sold miles and recognized over the period the mileage is expected to be used, which is currently estimated to be 28 months. The second revenue component, based on the residual method (for contracts in existence prior to January 1, 2011) and representing the marketing services sold, is recognized as related services are provided.

The Company’s total liability for future AAdvantage award redemptions for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, American Eagle or participating airlines, as well as unrecognized revenue from selling AAdvantage miles to other companies, was approximately $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively (and is recorded as a component of Air traffic liability in the consolidated balance sheets), representing 18.4 percent and 18.7 percent of AMR’s total current liabilities, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

The approximate number of free travel awards used for travel on American and American Eagle was 6.0 million one-way travel awards in 2012 and 6.0 million one-way travel awards in 2011 representing approximately 8.6 percent of passengers boarded in each year. The Company believes displacement of revenue passengers is minimal given the Company’s load factors, its ability to manage frequent flyer seat inventory, and the relatively low ratio of free award usage to total passengers boarded.

Changes to the percentage of the amount of revenue deferred, deferred recognition period, percentage of awards expected to be redeemed for travel on participating airlines, breakage or cost per mile estimates could have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues or incremental cost accrual in the year of the change as well as in future years.

Stock Compensation

Prior to the Petition Date, the Company granted awards under its various share based payment plans. The Company utilizes option pricing models or fair value models to estimate the fair value of its awards. Certain awards contain a market performance condition, which is taken into account in estimating the fair value on the date of grant. The fair value of those awards is calculated by multiplying the stock price on the date of grant by the expected payout percentage and the number of shares granted. The Company accounts for these awards over the three year term of the award based on the grant date fair value, provided adequate shares are available to settle the awards. For awards where adequate shares are not anticipated to be available or that only permit settlement in cash, the fair value is re-measured each reporting period.

The Company believes that all of its stock options will be cancelled as part of its emergence from Chapter 11. It is expected that no future awards will be made under existing plans. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company’s share based compensation.

Pensions and retiree medical and other benefits

The Company recognizes the funded status (i.e., the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligations) of its pension and postretirement plans in the consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

The Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit costs and liabilities are calculated using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies. The Company uses certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the selection of the: (i) discount rate; (ii) expected return on plan assets; and (iii) expected health care cost trend rate and, starting in 2007 (iv) the estimated age of pilot retirement (as discussed below).

These assumptions as of December 31 were:

55

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

When establishing our discount rate to measure our obligations, we match high quality corporate bonds available in the marketplace whose cash flows approximate our projected benefit disbursements. Lowering the discount rate by 50 basis points as of December 31, 2012 would increase the Company’s pension and postretirement benefits obligations by approximately $1.2 billion and $60 million, respectively, and increase estimated 2013 pension and postretirement benefit expense by $1 million and $4 million, respectively.

The expected return on plan assets is based upon an evaluation of the Company’s historical trends and experience taking into account current and expected market conditions and the Company’s target asset allocation of 35 percent longer duration corporate and U.S. government/agency bonds, 27 percent U.S. value stocks, 19 percent developed international stocks, 8 percent emerging markets stocks and bonds and 11 percent alternative (private) investments. The expected return on plan assets component of the Company’s net periodic benefit cost is calculated based on the fair value of plan assets and the Company’s target asset allocation. The Company monitors its actual asset allocation and believes that its long-term asset allocation will continue to approximate its target allocation. The Company’s historical annualized ten-year rate of return on plan assets, calculated using a geometric compounding of monthly returns, is approximately 10.4 percent as of December 31, 2012. Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by 50 basis points as of December 31, 2012 would increase estimated 2013 pension expense by approximately $44 million.

The health care cost trend rate is based upon an evaluation of the Company’s historical trends and experience taking into account current and expected market conditions. Increasing the assumed health care cost trend rate by 100 basis points would increase estimated 2013 postretirement benefits expense by $15 million.

See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company’s retirement benefits.

Income taxes – The Company generally believes that the positions taken on previously filed income tax returns are more likely than not to be sustained by the taxing authorities. The Company has recorded income tax and related interest liabilities where the Company believes its position may not be sustained or where the full income tax benefit will not be recognized. The effects of potential income tax benefits resulting from the Company’s unrecognized tax positions are not reflected in the tax balances of the financial statements. Recognized and unrecognized tax positions are reviewed and adjusted as events occur that affect the Company’s judgment about the recognizability of income tax benefits, such as lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, conclusion of tax audits, release of administrative guidance, or rendering of a court decision affecting a particular tax position. The Company records a deferred tax asset valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of its deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company considers its historical earnings, trends, and outlook for future years in making this determination. The Company had a deferred tax valuation allowance of $4.4 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012 and 2011. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Derivatives – As required by U.S. GAAP, the Company assesses, both at the inception of each hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in its hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. In doing so, the Company uses a regression model to determine the correlation of the change in prices of the commodities used to hedge jet fuel (e.g., NYMEX Heating oil) to the change in the price of jet fuel. The Company also monitors the actual dollar offset of the hedges’ market values as compared to hypothetical jet fuel hedges. The fuel hedge contracts are generally deemed to be “highly effective” if the R-squared is greater than 80 percent and the dollar offset correlation is within 80 percent to 125 percent. The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively if it determines that a derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective as a hedge or if it decides to discontinue the hedging relationship. The fair value of the Company’s hedging contracts is recorded in Current Assets or Current Liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and is recorded gross of the collateral posted and on a trade basis. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had derivative contracts in an asset position at fair value of $65 million. A deferred gain of $15 million was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive 

56

income (OCI) at December 31, 2012 and will be recognized in future periods as contracts settle. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

New Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements.

Glossary of Defined Terms

ASM—Available Seat Mile. A measure of capacity. ASMs equal the total number of seats available for transporting passengers during a reporting period multiplied by the total number of miles flown during that period.

CASM—(Operating) Cost per Available Seat Mile. The amount of operating cost incurred per ASM during a reporting period, also referred to as “unit cost.”

Passenger Load Factor—A measure of utilized available seating capacity calculated by dividing RPMs by ASMs for a reporting period.

Passenger Mile Yield or Yield—The amount of passenger revenue earned per RPM during a reporting period.

RASM— Passenger Revenue per ASM. The amount of passenger revenue earned per ASM during a reporting period. Passenger RASM is also referred to as “unit revenue.”

RPM—Revenue Passenger Mile. One revenue-paying passenger transported one mile. RPMs equal the number of revenue passengers during a reporting period multiplied by the number of miles flown by those passengers during that period. RPMs are also referred to as “traffic.”

57

ITEM 7(A).QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions

The risk inherent in the Company’s market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the price of fuel, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates as discussed below. The sensitivity analyses presented do not consider the effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic activity, nor do they consider additional actions management may take to mitigate the Company’s exposure to such changes. Therefore, actual results may differ. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for accounting policies and additional information regarding derivatives.

Aircraft Fuel The Company’s earnings are substantially affected by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. In order to provide a measure of control over price and supply, the Company trades and ships fuel and maintains fuel storage facilities to support its flight operations. The Company also manages the price risk of fuel costs through the use of hedging contracts, which consist primarily of call options, collars (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold put option) and call spreads (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold call option). Heating oil, jet fuel and crude oil are the primary underlying commodities in the hedge portfolio. Market risk is estimated as a hypothetical 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2012 and 2011 cost per gallon of fuel. Based on projected 2013 fuel usage, such an increase would result in an increase to Aircraft fuel expense of approximately $718 million in 2013, inclusive of the impact of effective fuel hedge instruments outstanding at December 31, 2012, and assumes the Company’s fuel hedging program remains effective. Such an increase would have resulted in an increase to projected Aircraft fuel expense of approximately $743 million in 2012, inclusive of the impact of fuel hedge instruments outstanding at December 31, 2011. 

As of January 2013, the Company had cash flow hedges covering approximately 21 percent of its estimated 2013 fuel requirements. Comparatively, as of December 31, 2011, the Company had hedged approximately 21 percent of its estimated 2012 fuel requirements. The consumption hedged for 2013 is capped at an average price of approximately $3.03 per gallon of jet fuel. Five percent of estimated 2013 fuel requirements is hedged using call spreads with protection capped at an average price of approximately $3.37 per gallon of jet fuel. Sixteen percent of estimated 2013 fuel requirements is hedged using collars with an average floor price of approximately $2.39 per gallon of jet fuel. The cap and floor prices exclude taxes and transportation costs. A deterioration of the Company’s financial position could negatively affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future. 

Ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in crude oil or other crude oil related commodities. The Company assesses, both at the inception of each hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in its hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. In doing so, the Company uses a regression model to determine the correlation of the change in prices of the commodities used to hedge jet fuel (e.g., NYMEX Heating oil) to the change in the price of jet fuel. The Company also monitors the actual dollar offset of the hedges’ market values as compared to hypothetical jet fuel hedges. The fuel hedge contracts are generally deemed to be “highly effective” if the R-squared is greater than 80 percent and the dollar offset correlation is within 80 percent to 125 percent. The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively if it determines that a derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective as a hedge or if it decides to discontinue the hedging relationship.

Foreign Currency The Company is exposed to the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. The Company’s largest exposure comes from the British pound, Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and various Latin American currencies. The Company does not currently have a foreign currency hedge program related to its foreign currency-denominated ticket sales. A uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2012 and 2011 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the Company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in operating income of approximately $164 million and $174 million for the years ending December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, due to the Company’s foreign-denominated revenues exceeding its foreign-denominated expenses. This sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2012 and 2011 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Interest The Company’s earnings are also affected by changes in interest rates due to the impact those changes have on its interest income from cash and short-term investments, and its interest expense from variable-rate debt instruments. The Company’s largest exposure with respect to variable rate debt comes from changes in the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Company had variable rate debt instruments representing approximately 19 percent and 19 percent of its total long-term debt at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. If the Company’s interest rates average 10 percent more in 2012 than they did at December 31, 2012, the Company’s interest expense would increase by approximately $7 million and interest income from cash and short-term investments would increase by approximately $2 million. In comparison, at December 31, 2011, the Company estimated that if interest rates averaged 10 percent more in 2011 than they did at December 31, 2011, the Company’s interest expense would have increased by approximately $6 million and interest income from cash and short-term investments would have increased by 

58

approximately $2 million. These amounts are determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on the Company’s variable rate long-term debt and cash and short-term investment balances at December 31, 2012 and 2011.

Market risk for fixed rate long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates and amounts to approximately $196 million and $305 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The fair values of the Company’s long-term debt were estimated using quoted market prices or discounted future cash flows based on the Company’s incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements.

In accordance with ASC 852, the Debtors record interest expense only to the extent (1) interest will be paid during the Chapter 11 Cases or (2) it is probable that the Bankruptcy Court will allow a claim in respect of such interest. Interest expense recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Operations totaled $662 million and $826 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Contractual interest expense (including interest expense that is associated with obligations in liabilities subject to compromise) during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 totaled $745 million and $833 million, respectively.

59

ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS