ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Chapter 11 Proceedings

On November 29, 2011 (the Petition Date), AMR Corporation (AMR or the Company) and certain of the Company’s direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries (collectively, the Debtors) filed voluntary petitions for relief (the Chapter 11 Cases) under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the Bankruptcy Code), in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the Bankruptcy Court). The Chapter 11 Cases are being jointly administered under the caption “In re AMR Corporation, et al., Case No. 11-15463-SHL.”

No assurance can be given as to the value, if any, that may be ascribed to the Debtors' various prepetition liabilities and other securities. The Company cannot predict what the ultimate value of any of its or the other Debtors' securities may be. Accordingly, the Debtors urge that caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in any of these securities (including the Company's common stock) or other Debtor claims. Trading in the Company's common stock and certain debt securities on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) was suspended on January 5, 2012, and the Company's common stock and such debt securities were delisted by the SEC from the NYSE on January 30, 2012. On January 5, 2012, the Company's common stock began trading under the symbol “AAMRQ” on the OTCQB marketplace, operated by OTC Markets Group (www.otcmarkets.com).

The Company and the other Debtors are operating as “debtors in possession” under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code. In general, as debtors in possession under the Bankruptcy Code, we are authorized to continue to operate as an ongoing business but may not engage in transactions outside the ordinary course of business without the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court. The Bankruptcy Code enables the Company to continue to operate its business without interruption, and the Bankruptcy Court has granted additional relief covering, among other things, obligations to (i) employees, (ii) taxing authorities, (iii) insurance providers, (iv) independent contractors for improvement projects, (v) foreign vendors, (vi) other airlines pursuant to certain interline agreements, and (vii) certain vendors deemed critical to the Debtors’ operations.

The Chapter 11 petitions triggered defaults on substantially all debt obligations of the Debtors. However, under section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code, the commencement of a Chapter 11 case automatically stays most creditor actions against the Debtors’ property.

Additional information about the Company’s Chapter 11 Case is available on the Internet at aa.com/restructuring. Court filings and claims information are available at amrcaseinfo.com. Information on this website is not incorporated into or otherwise made a part of this report. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Chapter 11 Progress” and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases.

General Description

AMR was incorporated in October 1982. Virtually all of AMR’s operations fall within the airline industry. AMR’s principal subsidiary, American Airlines, Inc. (American), was founded in 1934. At the end of 2012, American provided scheduled jet service to approximately 160 destinations throughout North America, the Caribbean, Latin America, Europe and Asia.

AMR Eagle Holding Corporation (AMR Eagle), a wholly-owned subsidiary of AMR, owns two regional airlines which do business as “American Eagle” – American Eagle Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc. (collectively, the American Eagle® carriers). American also contracts with certain independently owned regional air carriers to provide it with regional feed. See Note 5 and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Company's capacity purchase agreements. 

American, together with the American Eagle carriers and the third party carriers that provide regional feed to American, serves more than 250 cities in approximately 50 countries with, on average, 3,400 daily flights. The combined network fleet numbers 

5

approximately 900 aircraft. American Airlines is also a founding member of oneworld® alliance, which enables member airlines to offer their customers more services and benefits than any member airline can provide individually. These services include a broader route network, opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles across the combined oneworld network and more airport lounges. Together, oneworld members serve more than 800 destinations in approximately 150 countries, with about 9,000 daily departures. American is also one of the largest scheduled air freight carriers in the world, providing a wide range of freight and mail services to shippers throughout its system onboard American’s passenger fleet.

Pursuant to a capacity purchase agreement between American and the American Eagle carriers, American receives all passenger revenue from flights performed for it by the American Eagle carriers and pays the American Eagle carriers a fee for each flight. The capacity purchase agreement reflects what the Company believes are current market rates received by other regional carriers for similar flying. Amounts paid to the American Eagle carriers under the capacity purchase agreement are available to pay for various operating expenses of the American Eagle carriers, such as crew expenses, maintenance, and other aircraft related expenses. As of December 31, 2012, the American Eagle carriers operated approximately 1,500 daily departures, offering scheduled passenger service to over 175 destinations in North America, Mexico and the Caribbean. On a separate company basis, AMR Eagle reported $1.2 billion in revenue in 2012.

Competition

Domestic Air Transportation The domestic airline industry is fiercely competitive. Currently, any United States (U.S.) air carrier deemed fit by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its possessions. Most major air carriers have developed hub-and-spoke systems and schedule patterns in an effort to maximize the revenue potential of their service. American operates in five primary domestic markets: Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW), Chicago O’Hare, Miami, New York City and Los Angeles.

The American Eagle carriers and the third party carriers that provide regional feed to American increase the number of markets the Company serves by providing connections at American’s primary markets. American’s competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional carriers which provide similar services at their major hubs and other locations.

On most of its domestic non-stop routes, the Company faces competing service from at least one, and sometimes more than one, domestic airline including: Alaska Airlines (Alaska), Delta Air Lines (Delta), Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, JetBlue Airways (JetBlue), Southwest Airlines (Southwest), Spirit Airlines, United Airlines (United) , US Airways, Virgin America Airlines and each of their affiliated regional carriers. Competition is even greater between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs. In addition, the Company faces competition on some of its connecting routes from carriers operating point-to-point service on such routes. The Company also competes with all-cargo and charter carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation. On all of its routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines.

International Air Transportation In addition to its extensive domestic service, the Company provides international service to the Caribbean, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia. The Company’s operating revenues from foreign operations (flights serving international destinations) were approximately 40 percent of the Company’s total operating revenues in each of the three years 2012, 2011, and 2010. Additional information about the Company’s foreign operations is included in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.

In providing international air transportation, the Company competes with foreign investor-owned carriers, foreign state-owned carriers and U.S. airlines that have been granted authority to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations. In general, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets beyond the nonstop city pair have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers’ rights to carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. To improve access to each other’s markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers – including American – have established marketing relationships with other airlines and rail companies. American currently has marketing relationships with Air Berlin, Air Pacific, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cape Air, Cathay Pacific, Dragonair, EL AL, Etihad Airways, EVA Air, Finnair, Gulf Air, Hainan Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, Japan Airlines (JAL), Jet Airways, JetStar Airways, LAN (includes LAN Airlines, LAN Argentina, LAN Ecuador and LAN Peru), Malaysia Airlines, Niki Airlines, Qantas Airways, Qatar Airways, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines, and WestJet.

American is also a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes Air Berlin, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Iberia, JAL, LAN Airlines, Malaysia Airlines, Qantas, Royal Jordanian and S7 Airlines. SriLankan Airlines is scheduled to join the alliance in 2013 and Qatar Airways is expected to join the alliance in late 2013 or early 2014. The oneworld alliance links the networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers’ frequent flyer programs and access to the carriers’ airport lounge facilities.

Over the last two years, American has established joint business agreements (JBAs) with British Airways and Iberia, JAL, and 

6

Qantas that enable the carriers to cooperate on flights between particular destinations, and allows pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas. American and its partner airlines received regulatory approval to enter into these JBAs.

In December 2012, American signed agreements to codeshare with Sao Paulo-based TAM Airlines and Bogota-based LAN Colombia. Once approved, these new codeshare relationships will provide expanded opportunities for American to serve new markets in Brazil and Colombia and for TAM Airlines and LAN Colombia in the United States. 

Price Competition The airline industry is characterized by substantial and intense price competition. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Company’s financial results because the Company is generally required to match competitors’ fares, as failing to match would provide even less revenue due to customers’ price sensitivity.

There are a number of low-cost carriers (LCCs) in the domestic market and the Company competes with LCCs over a very large part of its network. Several major airlines, including the Company, have implemented efforts to lower their costs since lower cost structures enable airlines to offer lower fares. In addition, several air carriers have reorganized in recent years under Chapter 11, including United, Delta, and US Airways. These cost reduction efforts, bankruptcy reorganizations and subsequent consolidations (e.g., United/Continental; Delta/Northwest) have allowed carriers to decrease operating costs. Lower cost structures have generally resulted in fare reductions. Over the past several years, the Company was unable to offset its substantial cost disadvantage through increases in passenger traffic, changes in the mix of traffic that improve yields and/or cost reductions. Consequently, the Company filed the Chapter 11 Cases to become a more efficient, financially stronger and more competitive airline. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases.

Regulation

General The Company is subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and freight transportation. However, DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) still exercise certain regulatory authority over air carriers. DOT maintains jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, international route authorities, and certain consumer protection and competition matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability.

The FAA regulates flying operations generally, including establishing standards for personnel, aircraft and certain security measures. As part of that oversight, the FAA has implemented a number of requirements that the Company has incorporated and is incorporating into its maintenance programs. The Company is progressing toward the completion of numerous airworthiness directives, a number of which require the Company to perform significant maintenance work and to incur additional expenses. Based on its current implementation schedule, the Company expects to be in compliance with the applicable requirements within the required time periods. The FAA also operates the U.S. air traffic control system. 

DOT and the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and collective bargaining agreements (CBAs). In addition, as a result of heightened levels of concern regarding data privacy, the Company is subject to an increasing number of domestic and foreign laws regarding the privacy and security of passenger and employee data.

International International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. The Company’s operating authority in international markets is subject to aviation agreements between the U.S. and the respective countries or governmental authorities (such as the European Union), and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments. Moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. Bilateral and multilateral agreements among the U.S. and various foreign governments of countries served by the Company are periodically subject to renegotiation. Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of route authorities, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s international operations. In addition, at some foreign airports, an air carrier needs slots (landing and take-off authorizations and other facilities) and other facilities before the air carrier can introduce new service or increase existing service. The availability of such slots is not assured and the inability of the Company to obtain and retain needed slots and facilities could therefore inhibit its efforts to compete in certain international markets.

Security In November 2001, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (ATSA) was enacted in the U.S. The ATSA created a new government agency, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which is part of the Department of Homeland Security and is responsible for aviation security. The ATSA mandates that the TSA provide for the screening of all passengers and property, including U.S. mail, cargo, carry-on and checked baggage, and other articles that will be carried aboard a passenger aircraft. The ATSA also provides for security in flight decks of aircraft and requires federal air marshals to be present on certain flights.

7

Effective February 1, 2002, the ATSA imposed a $2.50 per enplanement security service fee, which is being collected by the air carriers and submitted to the government to pay for these enhanced security measures. Additionally, air carriers are annually required to submit to the government an amount equal to what the air carriers paid for screening passengers and property in 2000. In recent years, the government has sought to increase both of these fees under spending proposals for the Department of Homeland Security. American and other carriers have announced their opposition to these proposals as there is no assurance that any increase in fees could be passed on to customers.

Airline Fares Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which the Company serves. While air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs, substantial commissions, fare overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers characterize many international markets. 

Airport Access Operations at four major domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by the Company are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of “slots” or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period. 

In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of slots, slot exemptions, operating authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at Reagan National in Washington, D.C., LaGuardia and JFK in New York, and Newark. The Company’s operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or analogous regulatory authorities. Similarly, the Company’s operations at Tokyo’s Narita Airport, London’s Heathrow Airport and certain other international airports are regulated by local slot coordinators pursuant to the International Air Transport Association’s Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines and applicable local law. The Company currently has sufficient slots or analogous authorizations to operate its existing flights, and it has generally been able to obtain the rights to expand its operations and to change its schedules. There is no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are subject to changes in governmental policies.

In 2006, the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006 (the Act) became law. The Act is based on an agreement by the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, DFW International Airport, Southwest, and the Company to modify the Wright Amendment, which authorizes certain flight operations at Dallas Love Field within defined geographic areas. Among other things, in October 2014 the Act eliminates domestic geographic restrictions on operations while limiting the maximum number of gates at Love Field. The Company believes the Act is a pragmatic resolution of the issues related to the Wright Amendment and the use of Love Field.

Environmental Matters The Company is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on the Company include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act). Certain operations of the Company concerning employee safety and health matters are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on the Company’s operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.

The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. The ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft. While the Company has had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.

Many aspects of the Company's operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation. For example, the EU has adopted a directive under which each EU member state is required to extend the existing EU emissions trading scheme (ETS) to aviation. This would require us to annually submit emission allowances in order to operate flights to and from EU member states in January 2012 and thereafter, including flights between the U.S. and EU member states. In November 2012, the European Commission proposed to suspend for one year the ETS' application to flights entering and departing Europe, to allow the United Nations' International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to propose an alternate global emissions reduction scheme. The proposal is expected to be approved by the European Parliament and EU member states represented in the EU Council in the first quarter of 2013. The ETS may be reactivated if ICAO does not make progress towards an alternate global scheme within the next year. 

8

The U.S. enacted legislation in November 2012 that will allow the Secretary of Transportation to prohibit U.S. airlines from participating in the ETS. While these measures create some uncertainty as to the extent to which we will be required to participate in the ETS going forward, it is nevertheless increasingly likely that in the future we will be required to participate in some form of international arrangement governing aircraft emissions. Environmental legislative or regulatory action by the U.S., state or foreign governments currently or in the future may adversely affect the Company's business and financial results. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information. 

The environmental laws to which the Company is subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. The Company is conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. The Company anticipates that the ongoing costs of such activities will be immaterial. The Company has also been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at certain Superfund sites. The Company’s alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are small in comparison to total contributions of all PRPs and the Company expects that any future payments of its share of costs at such sites will be immaterial.

Labor

The airline business is labor intensive. Wages, salaries and benefits represented approximately 28 percent of the Company’s consolidated operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012. The average full-time equivalent number of people employed by the Company’s subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2012 was 77,750.

The majority of the people employed by the Company are represented by labor unions and covered by CBAs. American's pilots are represented by the Allied Pilots Association (APA), its flight attendants by the Association of Professional Flight Attendants (APFA), and its mechanics and fleet service employees, and certain other employee groups, by the Transport Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO (TWU). AMR Eagle's pilots are represented by the Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA), its flight attendants by the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA, AFL-CIO (AFA), and its mechanics and fleet service employees, and certain other employee groups, by the TWU.

Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under this act, the CBAs between the Company’s subsidiaries and these organizations generally do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed to by the parties. Under the RLA, after receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the NMB to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months, and even for several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During that period (or after), a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new people to replace any striking workers.

Prior to the Chapter 11 filings on November 29, 2011, American had been in negotiations with its unions under the RLA for as long as five years. As of December 31, 2012, American and AMR Eagle have new contracts with all of their respective labor groups. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for further information on the Company's CBAs.

Fuel

The Company’s operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet fuel. The Company’s fuel costs and consumption for the years 2010 through 2012 were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In order to provide a measure of control over price and supply, the Company trades and ships fuel and maintains fuel storage 

9

facilities to support its flight operations. The Company also manages the price risk of fuel costs through the use of hedging contracts, which consist primarily of call options, collars (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold put option) and call spreads (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold call option). Heating oil, jet fuel and crude oil are the primary underlying commodities in the hedge portfolio. The Company does not take a view on the direction of fuel prices; instead, the Company layers in fuel hedges on a systematic basis. Depending on movements in the price of fuel, the Company’s fuel hedging program can result in gains or losses on its fuel hedges.

During 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s fuel hedging program increased (decreased) the Company’s fuel expense by approximately $(4) million, $(335) million and $142 million, respectively. As of January 2013, the Company had cash flow hedges covering approximately 21 percent of its estimated 2013 fuel requirements. The consumption hedged for 2013 is capped at an average price of approximately $3.03 per gallon of jet fuel. Five percent of estimated 2013 fuel requirements is hedged using call spreads with protection capped at an average price of approximately $3.37 per gallon of jet fuel. Sixteen percent of estimated 2013 fuel requirements is hedged using collars with an average floor price of approximately $2.39 per gallon of jet fuel. The cap and floor prices exclude taxes and transportation costs. A deterioration of the Company’s financial position could negatively affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future. See the Risk Factors under Item 1A for additional information regarding fuel.

Additional information regarding the Company’s fuel program is also included in Item 7(A) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

Frequent Flyer Program

American established the AAdvantage® frequent flyer program (AAdvantage) to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. The Company believes that the AAdvantage program is one of its competitive strengths. AAdvantage benefits from a growing base of approximately 72 million members with desirable demographics who have demonstrated a strong willingness to collect AAdvantage miles over other loyalty program incentives and are generally disposed to adjusting their purchasing behavior in order to earn additional AAdvantage miles. AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American, the American Eagle carriers, and the third party regional airlines or by using services of other participants in the AAdvantage program. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, the American Eagle carriers or other participating airlines, or for other awards. Once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the member may book award travel. Most travel awards are subject to capacity controlled seating. A member’s mileage credit does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months.

American sells mileage credits and related services to other participants in the AAdvantage program. There are over 1,000 program participants, including a leading credit card issuer, hotels, car rental companies and other products and services companies in the AAdvantage program. The Company believes that program participants benefit from the sustained purchasing behavior of AAdvantage members, which translates into a recurring stream of revenues for AAdvantage. Under its agreements with AAdvantage members and program participants, the Company reserves the right to change the AAdvantage program at any time without notice, and may end the program with six months notice. As of December 31, 2012, AAdvantage had approximately 72 million total members, and 609 billion outstanding award miles. During 2012, AAdvantage issued approximately 209 billion miles, of which approximately 66% were sold to program participants. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under Item 7 for more information on AAdvantage.

Cargo

American Airlines Cargo, a division of American, provides over 100 million pounds of weekly cargo lift capacity to major cities in the United States, Europe, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, Latin America and Asia. American’s cargo network is one of the largest air cargo networks in the world, with facilities and interline connections available across the globe. During 2012, American Airlines Cargo accounted for approximately 2.7 percent of the Company’s operating revenues by generating $669 million in freight and mail revenue, a decrease of 4.8 percent versus 2011.

Other revenues

Other revenues, which approximate 10.2 percent of total revenues, includes revenue from the marketing services related to the sale of mileage credits in the AAdvantage program as discussed above, membership fees and related revenue from the Company’s Admirals Club operations, and other miscellaneous service revenue, including administrative service charges and baggage handling fees. 

Other Matters

Seasonality and Other Factors The Company’s results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those 

10

for the entire year since the air transportation business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Higher demand for air travel has traditionally resulted in more favorable operating and financial results in the second and third quarters of the year than in the first and fourth quarters. Fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather, natural disasters, outbreaks of disease, and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 2012 is included in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the results of operations in the air transportation business have also significantly fluctuated in the past in response to general economic conditions.

Insurance The Company carries insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft. As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 (the Terrorist Attacks), aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to the Company, or significantly increase its cost, the Company would be materially adversely affected.

The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines through September 30, 2013, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government were to cease providing such insurance in whole or in part, it is likely that the Company could obtain comparable coverage in the commercial market, but it could incur substantially higher premiums and face more restrictive terms. However, there can be no assurance that comparable war-risk coverage will be available in the commercial market. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate war-risk coverage at commercially reasonable rates, it would be adversely affected.

Other Government Matters In time of war or during a national emergency or defense oriented situation, American and other air carriers can be required to provide airlift services to the Air Mobility Command under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program. In the event the Company has to provide a substantial number of aircraft and crew to the Air Mobility Command, its operations could be adversely impacted.

Available Information The Company makes its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 available free of charge under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company’s code of ethics (called the Standards of Business Conduct), which applies to all employees of the Company, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Controller, is posted under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com. The Company intends to disclose any amendments to the code of ethics, or waivers of the code of ethics on behalf of the CEO, CFO or Controller, under the Investor Relations page on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. The charters for the AMR Board of Directors’ standing committees (the Audit, Compensation, Diversity and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees), as well as the Board of Directors’ Governance Policies (the Governance Policies), are likewise available on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into or otherwise made a part of this Report.

11

ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS