Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may impact Mattel’s results of operations and cash flows. Inventory purchase transactions denominated in the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Hong Kong dollar, and Indonesian rupiah were the primary transactions that caused currency transaction exposure for Mattel during 2010, 2009, and 2008. Mattel seeks to mitigate its exposure to market risk by monitoring its currency transaction exposure for the year and partially hedging such exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory, and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts generally have maturity dates of up to 18 months. For those intercompany receivables and payables that are not hedged, along with US dollar cash balances held by certain international subsidiaries, the transaction gains or losses are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the exchange rate changes as part of operating income or other non-operating (income) expense, net based on the nature of the underlying transaction. Transaction gains or losses on hedged intercompany inventory transactions are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the inventory is sold to customers. In addition, Mattel manages its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through the selection of currencies used for international borrowings. Mattel does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.  

Mattel’s financial position is also impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations on translation of its net investment in subsidiaries with non-US dollar functional currencies. Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries with non-US dollar functional currencies are translated into US dollars at fiscal year-end exchange rates. Income, expense, and cash flow items are translated at weighted average exchange rates prevailing during the fiscal year. The resulting currency translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity. Mattel’s primary currency translation exposures during 2010 were related to its net investment in entities having functional currencies denominated in the Euro, British pound sterling, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, and Chilean peso.  

There are numerous factors impacting the amount by which Mattel’s financial results are affected by foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses resulting from changes in currency exchange rates, including, but not limited, to the level of foreign currency forward exchange contracts in place at a given time and the volume of foreign currency denominated transactions in a given period. However, assuming that such factors were held constant, Mattel estimates that a 1 percent change in the US dollar Trade-Weighted Index would impact Mattel’s net sales by approximately 0.5% and its full year earnings per share by approximately $0.01 to $0.02.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Mattel’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts that were used to hedge firm foreign currency commitments as of December 31, 2010 are shown in the following table. All contracts are against the US dollar and are maintained by reporting units with a US dollar functional currency, with the exception of the Indonesian rupiah contracts, which are maintained by entities with a rupiah functional currency.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * The weighted average contract rate for these contracts is quoted in US dollar per local currency.   

For the purchase of foreign currencies, fair value reflects the amount, based on dealer quotes, that Mattel would pay at maturity for contracts involving the same currencies and maturity dates, if they had been entered into as of December 31, 2010. For the sale of foreign currencies, fair value reflects the amount, based on dealer quotes, that Mattel would receive at maturity for contracts involving the same currencies and maturity dates, if they had been entered into as of December 31, 2010. The differences between the market forward amounts and the contract amounts are expected to be fully offset by currency transaction gains and losses on the underlying hedged transactions.  

In addition to the contracts involving the US dollar detailed in the above table, Mattel also had contracts to sell British pound sterling for the purchase of Euro. As of December 31, 2010, these contracts had a contract amount of $52.3 million and a fair value of $0.7 million.  

Had Mattel not entered into hedges to limit the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on its results of operations and cash flows, its income before income taxes would have increased by approximately $4 million in 2010, decreased by approximately $13 million in 2009, and increased by approximately $16 million in 2008.  

Venezuelan Operations  

Mattel’s pricing decisions in Venezuela are intended to mitigate the risks of government imposed currency controls and significant inflation by aligning Mattel’s prices with its expectations of the local currency cost of acquiring inventory and distributing earnings in US dollars. Mattel applies to the Venezuelan government’s  

49  

Table of Contents 

 Foreign Exchange Administrative Commission, CADIVI, for the conversion of local currency to US dollars at the official exchange rate. Through May 17, 2010, for US dollar needs exceeding conversions obtained through CADIVI, the parallel exchange market, with rates substantially less favorable than the official exchange rate, was used to obtain US dollars without approval from CADIVI.  

At December 31, 2009, Mattel changed the rate it used to translate its Venezuelan subsidiary’s transactions and balances from the official exchange rate to the parallel exchange rate, which was quoted at 5.97 Venezuelan bolivar fuertes per US dollar on December 31, 2009. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustment of approximately $15 million increased accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2009. Mattel’s considerations for changing the rate included indications that the Venezuelan government is not likely to continue to provide substantial currency exchange at the official rate for companies importing discretionary products, such as toys, difficulties in obtaining approval for the conversion of local currency to US dollars at the official exchange rate (for imported products and dividends), delays in previously obtained approvals being honored by CADIVI, and Mattel’s 2009 repatriation of dividends from its Venezuelan subsidiary at the parallel exchange rate.  

Effective January 1, 2010, Mattel has accounted for Venezuela as a highly inflationary economy as the three-year cumulative inflation rate for Venezuela, using a blend of the Consumer Price Index associated with the city of Caracas and the National Consumer Price Index (developed commencing in 2008 and covering the entire country of Venezuela), exceeded 100%. Accordingly, Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary uses the US dollar as its functional currency. As a result of the change to a US dollar functional currency, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuertes generate income or expense for changes in value associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations against the US dollar.  

On January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued the Venezuelan bolivar fuerte and changed to a two-tier exchange structure. The official exchange rate moved from 2.15 Venezuelan bolivar fuerte per US dollar to 2.60 for essential goods and 4.30 for non-essential goods and services. The devaluation did not have a material impact on Mattel’s consolidated financial statements during 2010. On December 30, 2010, the Venezuelan government eliminated the 2.60 rate for essential goods. The elimination of the essential goods rate had no impact on Mattel’s consolidated financial statements during 2010 as Mattel’s products are considered non-essential goods.  

On May 17, 2010, the Venezuelan government enacted reforms to its foreign currency exchange control regulations (“the exchange control regulations”) to close down the parallel exchange market. On June 9, 2010, the Venezuelan government enacted additional reforms to its exchange control regulations and introduced a newly regulated foreign currency exchange system, Sistema de Transacciones con Titulos en Moneda Extranjera (“SITME”), which is controlled by the Central Bank of Venezuela (“BCV”). Foreign currency exchange transactions not conducted through CADIVI or SITME may not comply with the exchange control regulations, and could therefore be considered illegal. The SITME imposes volume restrictions on the conversion of Venezuelan bolivar fuerte to US dollar, currently limiting such activity to a maximum equivalent of $350 thousand per month. As a result of the enactment of the reforms to the exchange control regulations, Mattel changed the rate it uses to remeasure Venezuelan bolivar fuerte-denominated transactions from the parallel exchange rate to the SITME rate specified by the BCV, which was quoted at 5.30 Venezuelan bolivar fuertes per US dollar on December 31, 2010. The net gain resulting from the remeasurement of Venezuelan bolivar fuerte-denominated transactions to the SITME rate specified by the BCV increased pre-tax income by approximately $4 million during 2010.  

Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary had approximately $31 million of net monetary assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuertes as of December 31, 2010. For every $10 million of net monetary assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuertes, a 1% increase/(decrease) in the foreign currency exchange rate would decrease/(increase) Mattel’s pre-tax income by approximately $100 thousand. While Mattel’s level of net monetary assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuertes will vary from one period to another based on operating cycles and  

50  

Table of Contents 

 seasonality, Mattel does not expect future remeasurement adjustments to be material to Mattel’s consolidated financial statements.  

Venezuela exchange rate matters, along with local market and regulatory conditions, have resulted in a substantial decrease in net sales for Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary. During 2010, Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary represented approximately 1% of Mattel’s consolidated net sales, as compared to approximately 3% in 2009.  

51  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.