PART I  

 Item 1. BUSINESS  

Introduction  

Darden Restaurants, Inc. is the world’s largest company-owned and operated full service restaurant company1, and served over 404 million meals in fiscal 2011. As of May 29, 2011, we operated through subsidiaries 1,894 restaurants in the United States and Canada. In the United States, we operated 1,860 restaurants in 49 states (the exception being Alaska), including 670 Red Lobster®, 748 Olive Garden®, 354 LongHorn Steakhouse®, 44 The Capital Grille®, 26 Bahama Breeze®, and 17 Seasons 52® restaurants, and one test “synergy restaurant” which houses both a Red Lobster and Olive Garden restaurant in the same building. In Canada, we operated 34 restaurants, including 28 Red Lobster and six Olive Garden restaurants. Through subsidiaries, we own and operate all of our restaurants in the United States and Canada, except for three restaurants located in Central Florida that are owned by joint ventures we manage. The joint ventures pay management fees to us, and we control the joint ventures’ use of our service marks. None of our restaurants in the United States or Canada are franchised. Of our 1,894 restaurants open on May 29, 2011, 973 were located on owned sites and 921 were located on leased sites. As of May 29, 2011, we franchised five LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants in Puerto Rico to an unaffiliated franchisee, and 22 Red Lobster restaurants in Japan to an unaffiliated Japanese corporation, under area development and franchise agreements. We also have entered into an area development agreement with an unaffiliated operator to develop and operate Red Lobster, Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants in the Middle East. As of May 29, 2011, no restaurants had been opened under this agreement, but a Red Lobster opened in Dubai in July 2011.  

Darden Restaurants, Inc. is a Florida corporation incorporated in March 1995, and is the parent company of GMRI, Inc., also a Florida corporation. GMRI, Inc. and certain other of our subsidiaries own and operate our restaurants. GMRI, Inc. was originally incorporated in March 1968 as Red Lobster Inns of America, Inc. We were acquired by General Mills, Inc. in 1970 and became a separate publicly held company in 1995 when General Mills distributed all of our outstanding stock to the stockholders of General Mills. Our principal executive offices and restaurant support center are located at 1000 Darden Center Drive, Orlando, Florida 32837, telephone (407) 245-4000. Our corporate website address is www.darden.com. We make our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on our website the same day as the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “Darden,” “we”, “our” or “us” include Darden Restaurants, Inc., GMRI, Inc. and our respective subsidiaries.  

We have a 52/53 week fiscal year ending the last Sunday in May. Our 2011 fiscal year ended May 29, 2011, had 52 weeks, our 2010 fiscal year ended May 30, 2010 had 52 weeks, and our 2009 fiscal year ended May 31, 2009 had 53 weeks.  

The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with the information in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by reference in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Background  

We opened our first restaurant, a Red Lobster seafood restaurant, in Lakeland, Florida in 1968. Red Lobster was founded by William B. Darden, for whom we are named. Red Lobster has grown from six restaurants in operation at the end of fiscal 1970 to 698 restaurants in North America by the end of fiscal 2011. Olive Garden, an internally developed Italian restaurant brand, opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida in fiscal 1983, and by the end of fiscal 2011 had expanded to 754 restaurants in North America. The number of Red Lobster and Olive  

1 Source: Nation’s Restaurant News, “Special Report: Top 100,” June 27, 2011 (based on U.S. foodservice revenue from company-owned restaurants).  

1  

Table of Contents 

 Garden restaurants open at the end of fiscal 2011 increased by four and 31, respectively, as compared to the end of fiscal 2010.  

Bahama Breeze is an internally developed brand that provides a Caribbean escape, offering the food, drinks and atmosphere you would find in the islands. In fiscal 1996, Bahama Breeze opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida. At the end of fiscal 2011, there were 26 Bahama Breeze restaurants.  

Seasons 52 is an internally developed brand that provides a casually sophisticated fresh grill and wine bar with seasonally inspired menus offering fresh ingredients to create great tasting meals that are lower in calories than comparable restaurant meals. Seasons 52 opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida in fiscal 2003. At the end of fiscal 2011, there were 17 Seasons 52 restaurants.  

On October 1, 2007, we completed the acquisition of the common stock of RARE Hospitality International, Inc. (“RARE”). RARE owned and operated two principal restaurant brands, LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille, of which 288 and 29 locations, respectively, were in operation as of the date of the acquisition. LongHorn Steakhouse, with locations primarily in the Eastern half of the United States, is a leader in the full service dining steakhouse category, and The Capital Grille, with locations in major metropolitan cities in the United States, is a leader in the premium steakhouse category. The acquired operations are included in our financial statements from the date of the acquisition. At the end of fiscal 2011, there were 354 LongHorn Steakhouse and 44 Capital Grille restaurants.  

In March 2011, we opened a test “synergy restaurant” that houses both a Red Lobster and Olive Garden restaurant in the same building. At the end of fiscal 2011, this was the only “synergy restaurant” in operation.  

The following table shows our growth and lists the number of restaurants operated by Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 as of the end of each fiscal year since 1970, and the number of LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille restaurants operated by us as of the end of each fiscal year since fiscal 2008. The final column in the table lists our total sales for the years indicated.  

Company-Operated Restaurants Open at Fiscal Year End  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Includes only Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 restaurants included in continuing operations. Excludes other restaurant brands operated by us in these years that are no longer owned by us, and restaurants that were included in discontinued operations. Also excludes two specialty restaurants: Hemenway’s Seafood Grille & Oyster Bar and The Old Grist Mill Tavern, that were acquired from RARE in fiscal 2008 and sold in fiscal 2010.  

 (2)  From fiscal 1996 forward, includes only net sales from continuing operations and excludes sales related to all restaurants that were closed and considered discontinued operations. Periods prior to fiscal 1996 include total sales from all of our operations, including sales from restaurant brands besides Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 that are no longer owned or operated by us. Total company sales from 1970 through fiscal 1995 were included in the consolidated operations of our former parent company, General Mills, Inc., prior to our spin-off as a separate publicly traded corporation in May 1995.  

 (3)  Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 605 requires sales incentives to be classified as a reduction of sales. For purposes of this presentation, sales incentives have been reclassified as a reduction of sales for fiscal 1998 through 2011. Sales incentives for fiscal years prior to 1998 have not been reclassified.  

 (4)  Includes one test synergy restaurant housing two restaurant brands in the same building.  

Strategy  

The restaurant industry is generally considered to be comprised of two segments: quick service and full service. The full service segment is highly fragmented and includes many independent operators and small chains. We believe that capable operators of strong multi-unit brands have the opportunity to increase their share of the full service segment. We plan to grow by increasing the number of restaurants in each of our existing brands and by developing or acquiring additional brands that can be expanded profitably.  

While we are a leader in the full service dining segment, we know we cannot be successful without a clear sense of who we are. Our core purpose is “To nourish and delight everyone we serve.” This core purpose is supported by our core values:  

   •    Integrity and fairness;  

   •    Respect and caring;  

   •    Diversity;  

   •    Always learning/always teaching;  

   •    Being “of service;”  

   •    Teamwork; and  

   •    Excellence.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Our mission is to be “The best in full service dining, now and for generations.” We believe we can achieve this goal by continuing to build on our strategy to be a brand-building company which is focused on:  

   •    Brand relevance;  

   •    Brand support;  

   •    A vibrant business model;  

   •    Competitively superior leadership; and  

   •    A unifying, motivating culture.  

Restaurant Brands  

Red Lobster  

Red Lobster is the largest full service dining seafood specialty restaurant operator in the United States. It offers an extensive menu featuring fresh fish, shrimp, crab, lobster, scallops and other seafood in a casual atmosphere. The menu includes a variety of specialty seafood and non-seafood entrées, appetizers and desserts.  

Most dinner entrée prices range from $10.00 to $33.25, with certain lobster items available by the pound and seasonal/regional fresh fish selections available on a daily fresh fish menu. Most lunch entrée prices range from $6.99 to $12.99. The price of most entrées includes salad, side items and as many of our signature Cheddar Bay Biscuits as a guest desires. During fiscal 2011, the average check per person was approximately $19.75 to $20.25, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 7.7 percent of Red Lobster’s sales. Red Lobster maintains different lunch and dinner menus and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a lower-priced children’s menu.  

Olive Garden  

Olive Garden is the largest full service dining Italian restaurant operator in the United States. Olive Garden’s menu includes a variety of authentic Italian foods featuring fresh ingredients and a wine list that includes a broad selection of wines imported from Italy. The menu includes flatbreads and other appetizers; soups, salad and garlic breadsticks; baked pastas; sautéed specialties with chicken, seafood and fresh vegetables; grilled meats; and a variety of desserts. Olive Garden also uses coffee imported from Italy for its espresso and cappuccino.  

Most dinner menu entrée prices range from $9.25 to $24.50, and most lunch menu entrée prices range from $6.95 to $16.25. The price of each entrée includes as much fresh salad or soup and breadsticks as a guest desires. For fiscal 2011, the average check per person was approximately $16.00 to $16.50, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 7.5 percent of Olive Garden’s sales. Olive Garden maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a lower-priced children’s menu.  

LongHorn Steakhouse  

LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants are full service establishments serving both lunch and dinner in an attractive and inviting atmosphere reminiscent of the classic American West. With locations in 33 states, primarily in the Eastern half of the United States, LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants feature a variety of top quality menu items including signature fresh steaks, as well as salmon, shrimp, chicken, ribs, pork chops, burgers and prime rib.  

Most dinner menu entrée prices range from $12.00 to $23.00, and most lunch menu entrée prices range from $8.00 to $15.00. The price of most entrées includes a side and/or salad and as much freshly baked bread as a guest desires. During fiscal 2011, the average check per person was approximately $18.50 to $19.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 9.5 percent of LongHorn Steakhouse’s sales. LongHorn Steakhouse maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a lower-priced children’s menu.  

4  

Table of Contents 

The Capital Grille  

The Capital Grille has locations in major metropolitan cities in the United States and features relaxed elegance and style. Nationally acclaimed for dry aging steaks on the premises, The Capital Grille is also known for fresh seafood flown in daily and culinary specials created by its chefs. The restaurants feature an award-winning wine list offering over 350 selections, personalized service, comfortable club-like atmosphere, and premiere private dining rooms.  

Most dinner menu entrée prices range from $26.00 to $47.00 and most lunch menu entrée prices range from $14.00 to $30.00. During fiscal 2011, the average check per person was approximately $70.00 to $71.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 30.7 percent of The Capital Grille’s sales. The Capital Grille maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections.  

Bahama Breeze  

Bahama Breeze restaurants bring guests the feeling of a Caribbean escape, offering the food, drinks and atmosphere found in the islands. The menu features distinctive, Caribbean-inspired fresh seafood, chicken and steaks as well as signature specialty drinks. In fiscal 2007, Bahama Breeze wrote down the carrying value of five restaurants and closed nine, but improved the guest experience and unit economics sufficiently at the remaining restaurants that we have restarted modest unit growth, with one restaurant opening in each of the last three fiscal years.  

Most dinner menu entrée prices at Bahama Breeze range from $9.00 to $23.00, and most lunch entrée prices range from $8.00 to $13.00. During fiscal 2011, the average check per person was approximately $22.50 to $23.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 21.9 percent of Bahama Breeze’s sales. Bahama Breeze maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a lower-priced children’s menu.  

Seasons 52  

Seasons 52 is a casually sophisticated, fresh grill and wine bar with seasonally inspired menus offering fresh ingredients to create great tasting meals that are lower in calories than comparable restaurant meals. It offers an international wine list of more than 90 wines, with approximately 60 available by the glass.  

Synergy Restaurant  

In March 2011, we opened a test “synergy restaurant” that houses both a Red Lobster and Olive Garden restaurant in the same building, but with separate front doors, dining rooms and brand-specific menus. The shared building is designed to keep the guest experience the same while delivering cost efficiencies. We developed this concept to test expansion into smaller markets that would not meet our population density requirements to build a single brand. Future synergy restaurants may not be limited to Red Lobster and Olive Garden combinations, but could involve our other brands as well.  

Recent and Planned Growth  

During fiscal 2011, we opened 70 net new restaurants. Our actual and projected net new openings from continuing operations by brand are shown below.  

5  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The actual number of openings for each of our brands will depend on many factors, including our ability to locate appropriate sites, negotiate acceptable purchase or lease terms, obtain necessary local governmental permits, complete construction, and recruit and train restaurant management and hourly personnel. Our objective is to continue to expand all of our restaurant brands, and to develop or acquire additional brands that can be expanded profitably. We continue to test new ideas and brands, and also to evaluate potential acquisition candidates to assess whether they would satisfy our strategic and financial objectives.  

We consider location to be a critical factor in determining a restaurant’s long-term success, and we devote significant effort to the site selection process. Prior to entering a market, we conduct a thorough study to determine the optimal number and placement of restaurants. Our site selection process incorporates a variety of analytical techniques to evaluate key factors. These factors include trade area demographics, such as target population density and household income levels; competitive influences in the trade area; the site’s visibility, accessibility and traffic volume; and proximity to activity centers such as shopping malls, hotel/motel complexes, offices and universities. Members of senior management evaluate, inspect and approve each restaurant site prior to its acquisition. Constructing and opening a new restaurant typically takes approximately 180 days on average after permits are obtained and the site is acquired.  

The following table illustrates the approximate average capital investment, size and dining capacity of the nine Red Lobster restaurants (seven new restaurants and two relocations), 34 Olive Garden restaurants (33 new restaurants and one relocation) and the 25 LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants (24 new restaurants and one relocation) opened during fiscal 2011. The table excludes any rebuilt restaurants.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1)  Estimated final cost includes net present value of lease obligations and working capital credit, but excludes internal overhead.  

   (2)  Includes all space under the roof, including the coolers and freezers.  

   (3)  Includes bar dining seats and patio seating, but excludes bar stools.  

   (4)  Includes patio dining tables.  

We systematically review the performance of our restaurants to ensure that each one meets our standards. When a restaurant falls below minimum standards, we conduct a thorough analysis to determine the causes, and implement marketing and operational plans to improve that restaurant’s performance. If performance does not improve to acceptable levels, the restaurant is evaluated for relocation, closing or conversion to one of our other brands.  

During fiscal 2009, we permanently closed three Red Lobster restaurants, one Olive Garden restaurant and five LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants. During fiscal 2010, we permanently closed three Red Lobster restaurants and three LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants. During fiscal 2011, we permanently closed one Red Lobster restaurant, two Olive Garden restaurants and two LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants. Permanent closures are typically due to  

6  

Table of Contents 

 economic changes in trade areas, the expiration of lease agreements, or site selection concerns. Accordingly, we continue to evaluate our site locations in order to minimize the risk of future closures or asset impairment charges.  

Restaurant Operations  

We believe that high-quality restaurant management is critical to our long-term success. Our restaurant management structure varies by brand and restaurant size. We issue detailed operations manuals covering all aspects of restaurant operations, as well as food and beverage manuals which detail the preparation procedures of our recipes. The restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each restaurant and for ensuring compliance with our operating standards.  

Each typical Red Lobster and Olive Garden restaurant is led by a general manager, and each LongHorn Steakhouse restaurant is led by a managing partner. Each also has three to five additional managers, depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of the restaurant. In addition, each restaurant employs approximately 50-185 hourly employees, most of whom work part-time. Restaurant general managers or managing partners report to a director of operations who is responsible for approximately six to 10 restaurants. Restaurants are visited regularly by all levels of supervision to help ensure strict adherence to all aspects of our standards.  

Each Bahama Breeze restaurant is led by a general manager, and each The Capital Grille and Seasons 52 restaurant is led by a managing partner. Each also has one to four assistant managers and one to three kitchen managers. In addition, each restaurant employs an average of approximately 70 to 115 hourly employees. The general manager or managing partner of each restaurant reports directly to a director of operations, who has operational responsibility for approximately three to ten restaurants. Restaurants are visited regularly by all levels of supervision to help ensure strict adherence to all aspects of our standards.  

Our Learning Center of Excellence in partnership with each brand’s head of training, together with senior operations executives, are responsible for developing and maintaining our operations training programs. These efforts include a 12 to 15-week training program for management trainees and continuing development programs for managers, supervisors and directors. The emphasis of the training and development programs varies by restaurant brand, but includes leadership, restaurant business management and culinary skills. We also use a highly structured training program to open new restaurants, including deploying training teams experienced in all aspects of restaurant operations. The opening training teams typically begin work one week prior to opening and remain at the new restaurant for up to three weeks after the opening. They are re-deployed as appropriate to enable a smooth transition to the restaurant’s operating staff.  

We maintain performance measurement and incentive compensation programs for our management-level employees. We believe that our leadership position, strong success-oriented culture and various short-term and long-term incentive programs, including stock and stock-based compensation, help attract and retain highly motivated restaurant managers.  

Quality Assurance  

Our Total Quality Department helps ensure that all restaurants provide safe, high-quality food in a clean and safe environment. Through rigorous physical evaluation and testing at our North American laboratories and through “point source inspection” by our international team of Quality Specialists in several foreign countries, we purchase only seafood that meets or exceeds our specifications. We use independent third parties to inspect and evaluate commodity vendors. In addition, any commodity supplier that produces a “high-risk” product is subject to a food safety evaluation by Darden personnel at least annually. We require our suppliers to maintain sound manufacturing practices and operate with the comprehensive Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) food safety programs adopted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The HACCP programs focus on preventing hazards that could cause food-borne illnesses by applying scientifically-based controls to analyze hazards, identify and monitor critical control points, and establish corrective actions when monitoring shows that a critical limit has not been met. Since 1976, we have required routine microbiological testing of seafood and other commodities for quality and microbiological safety. In addition, our total quality managers and third party auditors visit each restaurant periodically throughout the year to review food handling and to provide education and training in food  

7  

Table of Contents 

 safety and sanitation. The total quality managers also serve as a liaison to regulatory agencies on issues relating to food safety.  

Purchasing and Distribution  

Our ability to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality food and supplies at competitive prices to all of our restaurant brands depends on reliable sources of procurement. Our purchasing staff sources, negotiates and purchases food and supplies from more than 2,000 suppliers whose products originate in more than 30 countries. Suppliers must meet strict quality control standards in the development, harvest, catch and production of food products. Competitive bids, long-term contracts and long-term vendor relationships are routinely used to manage availability and cost of products.  

We believe that our seafood purchasing capabilities are a significant competitive advantage. Our purchasing staff travels routinely within the United States and internationally to source more than 100 varieties of top-quality seafood at competitive prices. We believe that we have established excellent long-term relationships with key seafood vendors and usually source our product directly from producers (not brokers or middlemen). While the supply of certain seafood species is volatile, we believe we have the ability to identify alternative seafood products and to adjust our menus as necessary. All other essential food products are available, or can be made available upon short notice, from alternative qualified suppliers. Because of the relatively rapid turnover of perishable food products, inventories in the restaurants have a modest aggregate dollar value in relation to sales. Controlled inventories of specified products are distributed to restaurants through third-party national distribution companies. In addition, through agreements between our subsidiary Darden Direct Distribution, Inc. and these distribution companies, we maintain inventory ownership and dedicated operations in select environments enhancing our supply chain’s competitive advantage.  

Our supplier diversity program is an integral part of our purchasing efforts. Through this program, we identify minority and women-owned vendors and assist them in establishing supplier relationships with us. We are committed to the development and growth of minority and women-owned enterprises, and during fiscal 2011 we spent approximately 5.8 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively, of our purchasing dollars with those firms.  

We continue to invest in new technologies to improve our purchasing and restaurant operations. During fiscal 2011, we completed the implementation of “iKitchen,” a web-based software system, to our regional suppliers. The system is designed to more efficiently handle restaurant product orders, receiving, invoice approval and inventories.  

Advertising and Marketing  

We believe we have developed significant marketing and advertising capabilities. Our size enables us to be a leading advertiser in the full service dining segment of the restaurant industry. Red Lobster and Olive Garden leverage the efficiency of national network television advertising. Olive Garden supplements this with cable, local television and digital advertising, and Red Lobster with cable and digital advertising. LongHorn Steakhouse currently uses local television advertising, and began national cable television advertising in fiscal 2011. The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 do not use national television advertising. Our restaurants appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers and we use advertising to attract customers. We implement periodic promotions as appropriate to maintain and increase our sales and profits, as well as strengthen our brands. We also rely on outdoor billboard, direct mail and email advertising, as well as radio, newspapers, digital coupons, search engine marketing and social media such as Facebook® and Twitter®, as appropriate, to attract and retain customers. We have developed and consistently use sophisticated consumer marketing research techniques to monitor customer satisfaction and evolving expectations.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Employees  

At the end of fiscal 2011, we employed approximately 178,500 persons. Of these employees, approximately 168,500 were hourly restaurant personnel. The remainder were restaurant management personnel located in the restaurants or in the field, or were located at our restaurant support center facility in Orlando, Florida. Our operating executives have an average of more than 14 years of experience with us. The restaurant general managers average 12 years with us. We believe that we provide working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of our competitors. Most employees, other than restaurant management and corporate management, are paid on an hourly basis. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be good.  

In January 2011, we were ranked among Fortune magazine’s “100 Best Companies to Work For” in America. We were the first full-service restaurant company ever to be named to the list, and are committed to fostering a strong, values-based culture where employees can learn, thrive and grow.  

Information Technology  

We strive for leadership in the restaurant business by using technology as a competitive advantage and as an enabler of our strategy. Since 1975, computers located in the restaurants have been used to assist in the management of the restaurants. We have implemented technology-enabled business solutions targeted at improved financial control, cost management, enhanced guest service and improved employee effectiveness. These solutions are designed to be used across restaurant brands, yet are flexible enough to meet the unique needs of each restaurant brand. Our strategy is to fully integrate systems to drive operational efficiencies and enable restaurant teams to focus on restaurant operations excellence. Over the past few years, we implemented a new meal pacing system, in all Olive Garden and Red Lobster locations, designed to properly pace the preparation of menu items, based on cook-time, to enhance the guest’s experience and enhance restaurant capacity by increasing table turns. During fiscal 2012, Bahama Breeze, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille and Seasons 52 will pilot and begin implementing this meal pacing system in their locations.  

During fiscal 2011, Olive Garden implemented a new table management system to enhance the guest experience by providing accurate wait times and enhance restaurant capacity by increasing table turns. During fiscal 2012, LongHorn Steakhouse will pilot and begin implementing the table management system in its locations. In addition, during fiscal 2011 we continued to work on transformational initiatives to effectively manage our large work force and to manage our costs. During fiscal 2012, a talent acquisition system is being piloted and implemented across all brands for front line employee candidates.  

Restaurant hardware and software support for all of our restaurant brands is provided or coordinated from the restaurant support center facility in Orlando, Florida, seven days a week, 24 hours a day. A high-speed data network sends and receives critical business data to and from the restaurants throughout the day and night, providing timely and extensive information on business activity in every location. Our data center contains sufficient computing power to process information from all restaurants quickly and efficiently. Our information is processed in a secure environment to protect both the actual data and the physical assets. We guard against business interruption by maintaining a disaster recovery plan, which includes storing critical business information off-site, testing the disaster recovery plan at a host-site facility and providing on-site power backup via a large diesel generator. We use internally developed proprietary software, as well as purchased software, with proven, non-proprietary hardware. This allows processing power to be distributed effectively to each of our restaurants.  

Our management believes that our current systems and practice of implementing regular updates will position us well to support current needs and future growth. We are committed to maintaining an industry leadership position in information systems and computing technology. We use a strategic information systems planning process that involves senior management and is integrated into our overall business planning. Information systems projects are prioritized based upon strategic, financial, regulatory and other business advantage criteria.  

Competition  

The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to the type and quality of food, price, service, restaurant location, personnel, brand, attractiveness of facilities, and effectiveness of advertising and marketing. The  

9  

Table of Contents 

 restaurant business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing restaurants; and consumers’ discretionary purchasing power. We compete within each market with national and regional chains and locally-owned restaurants for customers, management and hourly personnel and suitable real estate sites. We also face growing competition from the supermarket industry, which offers “convenient meals” in the form of improved entrées and side dishes from the deli section. We expect intense competition to continue in all of these areas.  

Other factors pertaining to our competitive position in the industry are addressed under the sections entitled “Purchasing and Distribution,” “Advertising and Marketing” and “Information Technology” in this Item 1 and in our Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.  

Trademarks, Service Marks, Franchises and Joint Ventures  

We regard our Darden Restaurants®, Red Lobster®, Olive Garden®, LongHorn Steakhouse®, The Capital Grille®, Bahama Breeze®, and Seasons 52® service marks, and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and as being important to our marketing efforts. Our policy is to pursue registration of our important service marks and trademarks and to oppose vigorously any infringement of them. Generally, with appropriate renewal and use, the registration of our service marks and trademarks will continue indefinitely.  

All but three of our 1,894 restaurants in operation at May 29, 2011 are Company-owned and operated. Those three restaurants are located in Central Florida and are owned by joint ventures managed by us. The joint ventures pay management fees to us, and we control the joint ventures’ use of our service marks. We have one unaffiliated franchisee with the right under an area development and franchise agreement to operate franchised LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants in Puerto Rico. As of May 29, 2011, this franchisee operated five LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants in Puerto Rico. Our restaurant operations outside of North America are conducted through area development and franchise agreements. In Japan, we have an agreement with an unaffiliated Japanese corporation that operated 22 Red Lobster restaurants in Japan as of May 29, 2011. In October 2010, we entered into a formal area development agreement with an unaffiliated operator to develop and operate Red Lobster, Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants in the Middle East. The agreement calls for the operator to develop a minimum of 60 restaurants in Bahrain, Dubai, Egypt, Kuwait, Lebanon, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates over the next five years. As of May 29, 2011, no restaurants had been opened under this agreement, but a Red Lobster opened in Dubai in July 2011. We do not have an ownership interest in these franchisees, but we receive royalty income under the franchise agreements. The amount of income we derive from these joint venture and franchise arrangements is not material to our consolidated financial statements.  

Seasonality  

Our sales volumes fluctuate seasonally. During fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, our average sales per restaurant were highest in the winter and spring, followed by the summer, and lowest in the fall. During fiscal 2009, our average sales per restaurant were highest in the summer and spring, followed by the winter, and lowest in the fall. Holidays, changes in the economy, severe weather and similar conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.  

Government Regulation  

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our business. Each of our restaurants must comply with licensing requirements and regulations by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, safety and fire agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located. The development and operation of restaurants depend on selecting and acquiring suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations. To date, we have not been significantly affected by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals.  

During fiscal 2011, 9.2 percent of our sales were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Regulations governing their sale require licensure by each site (in most cases, on an annual basis), and licenses may  

10  

Table of Contents 

 be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. These regulations relate to many aspects of restaurant operation, including the minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, and storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain these licenses would adversely affect the restaurant’s operations. We also are subject in certain states to “dram-shop” statutes, which generally provide an injured party with recourse against an establishment that serves alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person who then causes injury to himself or a third party. We carry liquor liability coverage as part of our comprehensive general liability insurance.  

We also are subject to federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws governing such matters as overtime, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards, and hiring and employment practices. Changes in these laws during fiscal 2011 have not had a material effect on our operations.  

We currently are operating under a Tip Rate Alternative Commitment (“TRAC”) agreement with the Internal Revenue Service. Through increased educational and other efforts in the restaurants, the TRAC agreement reduces the likelihood of potential chain-wide employer-only FICA assessments for unreported tips.  

We are subject to federal and state environmental regulations, but these rules have not had a material effect on our operations. During fiscal 2011, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no material expenditures for this purpose are anticipated.  

Our facilities must comply with the applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”) and related state accessibility statutes. Under the ADA and related state laws, we must provide equivalent service to disabled persons and make reasonable accommodation for their employment, and when constructing or undertaking significant remodeling of our restaurants, we must make those facilities accessible.  

We are reviewing the health care reform law enacted by Congress in March of 2010 (“Health Care Reform Law”). As part of that review, we will evaluate the potential impacts of this new law on our business, and accommodate various parts of the law as they take effect. 

We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the preparation and sale of food, including regulations regarding product safety, nutritional content and menu labeling. We are or may become subject to laws and regulations requiring disclosure of calorie, fat, trans fat, salt and allergen content. The Health Care Reform Law requires restaurant companies such as ours to disclose calorie information on their menus. The Food and Drug Administration has proposed rules to implement this provision that would require restaurants to post the number of calories for most items on menus or menu boards and to make available more detailed nutrition information upon request.  

We are subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud. An increasing number of governments and industry groups worldwide have established data privacy laws and standards for the protection of personal information, including social security numbers, financial information (including credit card numbers), and health information.  

See Item 1A “Risk Factors” below for a discussion of risks relating to federal, state and local regulation of our business, including in the areas of health care reform, data privacy and environmental matters.  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

Our executive officers as of the date of this report are listed below.  

Clarence Otis, Jr., age 55, has been our Chairman of the Board since November 2005, Chief Executive Officer since November 2004, and a Director since September 2004. Mr. Otis was our Executive Vice President from March 2002 until November 2004 and President of Smokey Bones Barbeque & Grill from December 2002 until November 2004. He served as our Senior Vice President from December 1999 until March 2002, and our Chief Financial Officer from December 1999 until December 2002. He joined us in 1995 as Vice President and Treasurer. He served as our Senior Vice President, Investor Relations from July 1997 to August 1998, and as Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer from August 1998 until December 1999. From 1991 to 1995, he was  

11  

Table of Contents 

 employed by Chemical Securities, Inc. (now J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc.), an investment banking firm, where he had been Managing Director and Manager of Public Finance.  

Andrew H. (Drew) Madsen, age 55, has been our President and Chief Operating Officer since November 2004, and a Director since September 2004. Mr. Madsen was our Senior Vice President and President of Olive Garden from March 2002 until November 2004, and Executive Vice President of Marketing for Olive Garden from December 1998 to March 2002. From 1997 until joining us, he was President of International Master Publishers, Inc., a company that developed and direct-marketed consumer information products. Prior to joining us, he held various positions at James River Corporation (now part of Koch Industries), including Vice President and General Manager for the Dixie consumer products unit. From 1980 until 1992, he held various marketing positions with our former parent company, General Mills, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of consumer food products.  

James J. (J.J.) Buettgen, age 50, has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer since June 2011. Previously, he served as our Senior Vice President, New Business Development from May 2007 until June 2011. He served as our Senior Vice President and President of Smokey Bones Barbeque & Grill, a restaurant concept formerly owned and operated by us, from November 2004 until May 2007, and our Senior Vice President and President-designate of Smokey Bones from August 2004 until November 2004. From July 2003 until August 2004, he was President of Big Bowl Asian Kitchen, a casual dining company owned by Brinker International, Inc., a restaurant operator, and from October 2002 until June 2003 he was Senior Vice President of Marketing and Brand Development for Brinker. From 1999 to 2002, he was Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales for Disneyland Resorts, a division of the Walt Disney Company, where he helped launch Disney’s California Adventure theme park, and from 1998 to 1999 was Senior Vice President of Marketing for Hollywood Entertainment Group, a video retailer. He held several marketing posts with our former parent company, General Mills, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of consumer food products, from 1989 through 1994. From 1994 to 1998, he was Vice President of Marketing for Olive Garden until being promoted to Senior Vice President of Marketing for Olive Garden in 1998.  

John H. Caron, age 53, has been our President, Olive Garden since June 2011. He served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer from April 2010 to June 2011. From April 2003 to April 2010, he was Executive Vice President of Marketing for Olive Garden. From 1985 until joining us, he held various positions at Unilever Bestfoods North America, including Vice President and General Manager of Beverages from 2000 to 2002.  

Valerie K. Collins, age 52, has been our Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller since December 2006, and was Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller, and Chief Information Officer from December 2006 until September 2007. She served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer from January 2003 until December 2006, and Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller for Red Lobster from August 1998 until January 2003. She joined Red Lobster in 1985 as Manager of Accounting Systems and held progressively more responsible positions until being promoted to Vice President Finance and Controller for Olive Garden in 1994 and to Senior Vice President Finance and Controller for Olive Garden in 1996.  

David C. George, age 55, has been our President of LongHorn Steakhouse since our acquisition of RARE on October 1, 2007. Prior to the acquisition, he served as RARE’s President of LongHorn Steakhouse from May 2003 until October 2007. From October 2001 until May 2003, he was RARE’s Senior Vice President of Operations for LongHorn Steakhouse, and from May 2000 until October 2001 was RARE’s Vice President of Operations for The Capital Grille.  

Eugene I. (Gene) Lee, Jr., age 50, has been President of our Specialty Restaurant Group since our acquisition of RARE on October 1, 2007. Prior to the acquisition, he served as RARE’s President and Chief Operating Officer from January 2001 to October 2007. From January 1999 until January 2001, he served as RARE’s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  

Kim A. Lopdrup, age 53, has been our Senior Vice President of Business Development since June 2011. He served as President of Red Lobster from May 2004 until June 2011. He joined us in November 2003 as Executive Vice President of Marketing for Red Lobster. From 2001 until 2002, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for North American operations of Burger King Corporation, an operator and franchiser of fast food restaurants. From 1985 until 2001, he worked for Allied Domecq Quick Service Restaurants (“ADQSR”), a franchiser of quick service restaurants including Dunkin’ Donuts, Baskin-Robbins and Togo’s  

12  

Table of Contents 

 Eateries, where he held progressively more responsible positions in marketing, strategic planning and general management roles, eventually serving as Chief Executive Officer of ADQSR International.  

Robert McAdam, age 53, has been our Senior Vice President of Government and Community Affairs since December 2006. Prior to joining us, he was employed by retailer Wal-Mart Inc. as Vice President, Corporate Affairs from 2004 to 2006, and Vice President, State and Local Governmental Relations from 2000 to 2004. From 1997 to 2000, he was a Senior Vice President of Fleishman-Hillard, an international public relations firm.  

Daisy Ng, age 53, has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since June 2009. From October 2005 to June 2009, she was our Senior Vice President of Talent Management. Prior to joining us, she was Chief Learning Officer and Vice President, Workforce Development for Hewlett-Packard, a technology company, from November 2003 to August 2005.  

David T. Pickens, age 56, has been our President, Red Lobster since June 2011. He served as our President, Olive Garden from December 2004 until June 2011. He joined us in 1973 as a Red Lobster hourly employee and progressed from manager trainee to regional operations manager, director of operations, and ultimately was promoted to a division Senior Vice President of Operations for Red Lobster. He joined Olive Garden in 1995 as Senior Vice President of Operations for the Orlando division and was promoted to Executive Vice President of Operations in September 1999, where he served until his promotion to President of Olive Garden in December 2004.  

C. Bradford (Brad) Richmond, age 52, has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since December 2006. From August 2005 to December 2006, he served as our Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller. He served as Senior Vice President Finance, Strategic Planning and Controller of Red Lobster from January 2003 to August 2005, and previously was Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller at Olive Garden from August 1998 to January 2003. He joined us in 1982 as a food and beverage analyst for Casa Gallardo, a restaurant brand formerly owned and operated by us, and from June 1985 to August 1998 held progressively more responsible finance and marketing positions with our York Steak House, Red Lobster and Olive Garden brands in both the United States and Canada.  

Teresa M. Sebastian, age 53, has been our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since October 2010. Prior to joining us, she served as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for Veyance Technologies, Inc., a manufacturer of industrial rubber products and exclusive manufacturer and marketer of Goodyear® Engineered Products from May 2008 until October 2010. She also served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel and was with Information Resources, Inc. from May 2007 to April 2008; Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Corporate Secretary for DTE Energy Company from September 2001 to May 2007; and Senior Corporate Counsel for CMS Energy Corporation from September 1994 to September 2001.  

 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS