ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.  

The following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the Company’s business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the Company or its representatives make from time to time. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report.  

High and/or volatile fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s strategic plans, operating results, financial position and liquidity.  

Aircraft fuel is critical to the Company’s operations and has been the Company’s single largest and most volatile operating expense for the last several years. The Company generally sources adequate supplies of fuel at prevailing market prices and has some ability to store fuel close to major hub locations to ensure supply continuity in the short term. Timely and adequate supply of aircraft fuel depends on the continued availability of reliable fuel supply sources and delivery infrastructure. Although the Company has some ability to cover short term supply and infrastructure disruptions at its major demand locations, it can neither predict nor guarantee the continued timely availability of aircraft fuel throughout the Company’s system.  

Market prices for aircraft fuel depend on a multitude of unpredictable factors beyond the Company’s control. These factors include changes in global crude oil prices, aircraft fuel supply-demand balance, inventory levels and fuel production and transportation capacity, as well as indirect factors, such as geopolitical events, economic growth indicators, fiscal/monetary policies, fuel tax policies and financial investments. Both actual changes as well as changes in market expectations of these factors can potentially drive rapid changes in fuel price levels and price volatility.  

Given the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, the Company may not be able to increase its fares and fees sufficiently to offset the full impact of increases in fuel prices, especially if these increases are rapid and sustained. Further, such fare and fee increases may not be sustainable, may reduce the general demand for air travel and may also eventually impact the Company’s strategic growth and investment plans for the future. In addition, decreases in fuel prices for an extended period may result in increased industry capacity, increased competitive actions for market share and lower fares or surcharges in general. If fuel prices were subsequently to rise significantly, there may be a lag between improvement of revenue and the adverse impact of higher fuel prices as a result of any increased industry capacity.  

To protect against increases in the market prices of fuel, the Company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. However, the Company’s hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to market conditions, including choice of hedging instruments, breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. To the extent that the Company uses hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, including swaps or sold put options as part of a collar, such hedge contracts may limit the Company’s ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. If fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time the Company enters into a hedge contract, the Company may be required to post collateral (margin) beyond certain thresholds. There can be no assurance that the Company’s hedging arrangements will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the Company’s hedging arrangements. Additionally, deterioration in the Company’s financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future and may potentially require the Company to post increased amounts of collateral under its fuel hedging agreements.  

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and regulations promulgated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) require centralized clearing for over-the-counter derivatives and record-keeping and reporting requirements that are applicable to the Company’s fuel hedge contracts. The UAL Board of Directors (“Board of Directors”) has approved the Company’s election of the  

11  

Table of Contents 

 CFTC’s end-user exception, which permits the Company as a non-financial end user of derivatives to hedge commercial risk and be exempt from the CFTC mandatory clearing requirements. However, several of the Company’s hedge counterparties are also subject to these requirements, which may raise the counterparties’ costs. Those increased costs may in turn be passed on to the Company, resulting in increased transaction costs to execute hedge contracts and lower credit thresholds to post collateral (margin).  

See Note 10 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information on the Company’s hedging programs.  

Terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the Company and the airline industry.  

The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the prospects for the airline industry. Among the effects experienced from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the FAA-imposed temporary grounding of the U.S. airline industry’s fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue.  

Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the Company and the airline industry. Wars and other international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The Company’s financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks or other international hostilities.  

The Company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business.  

The Company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, revenue management systems, accounting systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com. United’s website and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. These systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to various events, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. Substantial or repeated systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the Company’s complex integration of systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the Company’s services versus those of its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data, and may adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Disruptions to the Company’s regional network and United Express flights provided by third-party regional carriers could adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial condition.  

The Company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as United Express. These regional operations are an extension of the Company’s mainline network and complement the Company’s operations by carrying traffic that connects to mainline service and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline aircraft. The Company’s business and operations are dependent on its regional flight network, with regional capacity accounting for approximately 13% of the Company’s total as of December 31, 2014.  

Although the Company has agreements with its regional carriers that include contractually agreed performance metrics, the Company does not control the operations of these carriers. A number of factors may impact the  

12  

Table of Contents 

 Company’s regional network, including weather-related effects and seasonality. In addition, the decrease in qualified pilots driven by federal regulations has adversely impacted and could continue to affect the Company’s regional flying. For example, the FAA’s expansion of minimum pilot qualification standards, including a requirement that a pilot have at least 1,500 total flight hours, as well as the FAA’s revised pilot flight and duty time rules, effective January 2014, have contributed to an increasing need for pilots for regional carriers. The decrease in qualified pilots resulting from the regulations as well as factors including a decreased student pilot population and a shrinking U.S. military from which to hire qualified pilots, could adversely impact the Company’s operations and financial condition, and also require the Company to reduce regional carrier flying.  

If a significant disruption occurs to the Company’s regional network or flights or if one or more of the regional carriers with which the Company has relationships is unable to perform their obligations over an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operations.  

The Company is subject to increasing legislative and regulatory and customer focus on privacy issues and data security.  

The Company is subject to increasing legislative and regulatory and customer focus on privacy issues and data security. A number of the Company’s commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that the Company must meet and these standards continue to evolve. The Company will continue its efforts to meet new and increasing privacy and security standards; however, it is possible that certain new standards may be difficult to meet and could increase the Company’s costs. Additionally, any compromise of the Company’s technology systems could result in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to customers’, employees’ or business partners’ information. Any such loss, disclosure, misappropriation or access could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information. Any significant data breach or the Company’s failure to comply with applicable U.S. and foreign privacy or data security regulations or security standards imposed by the Company’s commercial partners may adversely affect the Company’s reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Economic and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.  

The Company’s business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general economic and industry conditions. The airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the U.S. and global economies. Robust demand for the Company’s air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit.  

Air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. In addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers usually reduce the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. During such periods, the Company’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the Company’s business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels.  

Stagnant or weakening global economic conditions either in the United States or in other geographic regions, and any future volatility in U.S. and global financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, results of operations and liquidity. If such economic conditions were to disrupt capital markets in the future, the Company may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to refinance certain maturing debt and to satisfy future capital commitments.  

13  

Table of Contents 

The Company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving its aircraft, the aircraft of its regional carriers or the aircraft of its codeshare partners, which may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial position.  

An accident, catastrophe, or incident involving an aircraft that the Company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner or one of the Company’s regional carriers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company if such accident, catastrophe, or incident created a public perception that the Company’s operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are not safe or reliable, or less safe or reliable than other airlines. Such public perception could in turn result in adverse publicity for the Company, cause harm to the Company’s brand and reduce travel demand on the Company’s flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers.  

In addition, any such accident, catastrophe, or incident could expose the Company to significant tort liability. Although the Company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the Company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident or catastrophe, and the Company’s codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the Company for their operations, if the Company’s liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the Company could incur substantial losses from an accident, catastrophe or incident which may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial position.  

The Company’s business relies extensively on third-party service providers. Failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the Company’s relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the Company, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.  

The Company has engaged an increasing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, transmitting or uploading of data, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. The Company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. Any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the Company, may suffer disruptions to their systems that could impact their services, or the agreements with such providers may be terminated. For example, flight reservations booked by customers and travel agencies via third-party GDSs may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the Company and GDS operators. Such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the Company’s flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both the Company and GDS users, and impair the Company’s relationships with its customers and travel agencies. The failure of any of the Company’s third-party service providers to perform their service obligations adequately, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the Company’s revenues and increase its expenses, prevent the Company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers or result in adverse publicity or harm to its brand. In addition, the Company’s business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory.  

Inadequate liquidity or a negative impact on the Company’s liquidity from factors beyond the Company’s control may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and business.  

The Company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. In addition, the Company has substantial non-cancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including for the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Although the Company’s cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the Company’s future liquidity could be negatively affected by the risk factors discussed in this Item 1A., including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, adverse economic conditions, disruptions in the global capital markets and catastrophic external events.  

If the Company’s liquidity is constrained due to the various risk factors noted in this Item 1A. or otherwise, the Company might not be able to timely pay its debts or comply with certain operating and financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements or with other material provisions of its contractual obligations. These covenants require the Company or United, as applicable, to maintain minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios, depending on the particular agreement. The Company’s ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment, the level of fuel costs and the appraised value of certain collateral.  

If the Company does not timely pay its debts or comply with such covenants, a variety of adverse consequences could result. These potential adverse consequences include an increase of required reserves under credit card processing agreements, withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers, loss of undrawn lines of credit, the occurrence of one or more events of default under the relevant agreements, the acceleration of the maturity of debt and/or the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company cannot provide assurance that it would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such debt if it were accelerated. In addition, an event of default or acceleration of debt under certain of its financing agreements could result in one or more events of default under certain of the Company’s other financing agreements due to cross default and cross acceleration provisions.  

Furthermore, constrained liquidity may limit the Company’s ability to withstand competitive pressures and downturns in the travel business and the economy in general.  

The Company’s substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult for the Company to raise additional capital to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all.  

See Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this report for additional information regarding the Company’s liquidity.  

Union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions, as well as the integration of United’s workforces in connection with the Company’s merger transaction in 2010, could adversely affect the Company’s operations and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance.  

United is a highly unionized company. As of December 31, 2014, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 84,000 active employees, of whom approximately 80% were represented by various U.S. labor organizations.  

The successful integration of United’s workforces in connection with the Company’s merger transaction in 2010 and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the combined company depend in part on integrating employee groups and maintaining productive employee relations. In order to fully integrate the Company’s pre-merger represented employee groups, the Company must negotiate a joint collective bargaining agreement covering each combined group. The process for integrating the labor groups is governed by a combination of the RLA, the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of collective bargaining agreements and union policies. A delay in or failure to integrate employee groups presents the potential for increased operating costs and labor disputes that could adversely affect the Company’s operations.  

The Company can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of labor negotiations for all amendable collective bargaining agreements will be achieved. There is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the Company’s merger  

15  

Table of Contents 

 transaction in 2010. There is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slow-downs, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt the Company’s normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the Company in collective bargaining negotiations. Although the RLA makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and the Company can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. In addition, achieving joint collective bargaining agreements with the Company’s represented employee groups is likely to increase the Company’s labor costs, which increase could be material.  

See Notes 15 and 17 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information on labor negotiations and costs.  

An outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations.  

An outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat that affects travel demand or travel behavior, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat in the future, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

The Company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally.  

The Company is a global business with operations outside of the United States from which it derives approximately 40% of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the DOT. The Company’s operations in Asia, Europe, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. Volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the Company’s operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. In addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions, may have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results.  

Most recently, economic instability in Venezuela resulted in exchange rate changes that apply to the Company’s funds held in Venezuelan bolivars. The Company had approximately $100 million of its unrestricted cash balance held in Venezuelan bolivars as of December 31, 2014 based on a mix of historical rates in effect at the time of submission for repatriation. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to repatriate any or all of the funds held in Venezuelan bolivars in the future. Additionally, the amount and exchange rate at which the balance of funds will be repatriated could change resulting in a loss to the Company. If economic instability and devaluation of the local currency continue for a period of time in Venezuela, such conditions may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business.  

Extensive government regulation could increase the Company’s operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business.  

Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. Compliance with U.S. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the Company. Laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. The Company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations.  

United provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT. If the DOT altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The DOT is also responsible for promulgating consumer protection and other regulations such as the rule against lengthy tarmac delays, that will impose significant compliance costs on the Company. The FAA regulates the safety of United’s operations. United operates pursuant to an air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA. In January 2014, the FAA’s more stringent pilot flight and duty time  

16  

Table of Contents 

 requirements under Part 117 of the Federal Aviation Regulations took effect, which has increased costs for all carriers. In July 2014, minimum qualifications took effect for air carrier first officers. These regulations impact the Company and its regional partner flying, as they have caused mainline airlines to hire regional pilots, while simultaneously significantly reducing the pool of new pilots from which regional carriers themselves can hire. Although this is an industry issue, it directly affects the Company and requires it to reduce regional partner flying, as several regional partners have experienced difficulty flying their schedules due to reduced pilot availability. From time to time, the FAA also issues orders, airworthiness directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the Company. These FAA orders and directives could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the FAA identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. These FAA directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Also, OSHA’s regulatory programs for hazard communication, hearing conservation and blood-borne pathogens in the areas of cabin crewmember safety and health, which began in March 2014, have exposed the Company to increased regulatory requirements in the aircraft cabin, with associated increased costs and the possibility for operational impacts.  

In addition, the Company’s operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated air traffic control (“ATC”) system utilized by the U.S. government. During peak travel periods in certain markets, the current ATC system’s inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. In addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. Imposition of these ATC constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Failure to update the ATC system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized ATC system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.  

The airline industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes and fees that increase the cost of the Company’s operations. In addition to taxes and fees that the Company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending and if imposed, would increase the Company’s operating expenses.  

Access to landing and take-off rights, or “slots,” at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by the Company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. Certain of the Company’s major hubs are among increasingly congested airports in the United States and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. The FAA may limit the Company’s airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the Company’s ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to its facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The FAA historically has taken actions with respect to airlines’ slot holdings that airlines have challenged; if the FAA were to take actions that adversely affect the Company’s slot holdings, the Company could incur substantial costs to preserve its slots. Further, the Company’s operating costs at airports at which it operates, including the Company’s major hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the Company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. In some circumstances, such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the Company’s approval and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition.  

The ability of carriers to operate flights on international routes between airports in the United States and other countries may be subject to change. Applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, government policies with respect to airport operations may be revised, and the availability of appropriate slots or facilities may change. The Company currently operates a number of flights on international routes under government arrangements, regulations or policies that designate the number of  

17  

Table of Contents 

 carriers permitted to operate on such routes, the capacity of the carriers providing services on such routes, the airports at which carriers may operate international flights, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. Any further limitations, additions or modifications to such arrangements, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Additionally, a change in law, regulation or policy for any of the Company’s international routes, such as open skies, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. In addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the Company’s business and assets on the open skies routes. The Company’s plans to enter into or expand U.S. antitrust immunized alliances and joint ventures on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable U.S. federal authorities and obtaining other applicable foreign government clearances or satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or will continue in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied.  

Many aspects of the Company’s operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment. Future environmental regulatory developments, such as climate change regulations in the United States and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. There are certain climate change laws and regulations that have already gone into effect and that apply to the Company, including the EU ETS, the State of California’s greenhouse gas cap and trade regulations, environmental taxes for certain international flights, limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements and land-use planning laws which could apply to airports and could affect airlines in certain circumstances. In addition, there is the potential for additional regulatory actions in regard to the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. The precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the Company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the Company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant.  

In 2015, the U.S. Congress will begin consideration of legislation to reauthorize the FAA, which encompasses all significant aviation tax and policy related issues. As with previous reauthorization legislation, the U.S. Congress may consider a range of policy changes that could impact the Company’s operations and costs.  

See Part I, Item 1, Business—Industry Regulation, of this report for additional information on government regulation impacting the Company.  

The airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  

The U.S. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition including from low-cost carriers. The significant market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of large network carriers to achieve sustained profitability on domestic and international routes.  

Airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. Several of the Company’s domestic and international competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the Company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. In addition, the Company and certain of its competitors have implemented significant capacity reductions in recent years in response to high and volatile fuel prices and stagnant global economic growth. Further, certain of the Company’s competitors may not reduce capacity or may increase capacity, impacting the expected benefit to the Company from capacity reductions. This increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  

18  

Table of Contents 

UAL’s obligations for funding United’s defined benefit pension plans are affected by factors beyond UAL’s control.  

The Company maintains two primary defined benefit pension plans, one covering certain pilot employees and another covering certain U.S. non-pilot employees. The timing and amount of UAL’s funding requirements under these plans depend upon a number of factors, including labor negotiations with the applicable employee groups and changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors outside of UAL’s control, such as the number of applicable retiring employees, asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase UAL’s funding requirements, such as its liquidity requirements, could have a material adverse effect on UAL’s financial condition.  

The airline industry may undergo further consolidation, creation or modification of alliances or joint ventures or bankruptcy restructuring, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  

The Company faces and may continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to industry consolidation, the creation and modification of alliances and joint ventures and bankruptcy restructuring. Both the U.S. and international airline industries have experienced consolidation through a number of mergers and acquisitions. The Company is also facing stronger competition from expanded airline alliances and joint ventures. Carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps and/or joint ventures. Certain types of airline joint ventures further competition by allowing multiple airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. “Open Skies” agreements, including the agreements between the United States and the European Union and between the United States and Japan, may also give rise to additional consolidation or better integration opportunities among international carriers. Movement of airlines between current global airline alliances could reduce joint network coverage for members of such alliances while also creating opportunities for joint ventures and bilateral alliances that did not exist before such realignment. A number of carriers, both domestic and international, have filed for bankruptcy protection in the last ten years and other domestic and international carriers could restructure or consolidate in bankruptcy or threaten to do so in the future to reduce their costs. Carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the Company, could divest assets to the Company’s competitors and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors.  

There is ongoing speculation that further airline and airline alliance consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future. The Company routinely engages in analysis and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including current and potential alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. If other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the Company and potentially impairing the Company’s ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships.  

Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.  

The Company could be exposed to significant liability or loss if its property or operations were to be affected by a natural catastrophe or other event, including aircraft accidents. If the Company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance (including but not limited to aviation hull and liability insurance, workers’ compensation, and property and business interruption coverage) to cover such liabilities or losses, whether due to insurance market conditions or otherwise, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.  

Following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the Company’s insurance costs increased significantly and the availability of third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance decreased significantly. From September 2001 through May 2014, the Company obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a FAA-administered program. In anticipation of the government discontinuing this program, effective May 2014, the Company terminated its FAA-administered insurance and returned to the commercial insurance markets to obtain third-party war risk  

19  

Table of Contents 

 (terrorism) insurance. The government subsequently discontinued the FAA-administered program in December 2014. If the Company is unable in the future to obtain third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance with acceptable terms, or if the coverage obtained is insufficient relative to actual liability or losses that the Company experiences, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.  

The Company’s results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry.  

Due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. The Company’s results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, geological events, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, general economic conditions and other factors. As a result, the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.  

The Company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial position and results of operations.  

In accordance with applicable accounting standards, the Company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on October 1 of each year, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. In addition, the Company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred.  

The Company may be required to recognize impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. The Company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. The value of the Company’s aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. Such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the Company or other carriers. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.  

The Company’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be significantly limited due to various circumstances, including certain possible future transactions involving the sale or issuance of UAL common stock, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels.  

As of December 31, 2014, UAL reported consolidated federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $9.6 billion.  

The Company’s ability to use its NOL carryforwards may be limited if it experiences an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 (“Section 382”) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. An ownership change generally occurs if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of a corporation’s stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change.  

There is no assurance that the Company will not experience a future ownership change under Section 382 that may significantly limit or possibly eliminate its ability to use its NOL carryforwards. Potential future transactions involving the sale or issuance of UAL common stock, including the exercise of conversion options under the terms of any convertible debt that UAL may issue in the future, the repurchase of such debt with UAL common stock, any issuance of UAL common stock for cash and the acquisition or disposition of such stock by a  

20  

Table of Contents 

 stockholder owning 5% or more of UAL common stock, or a combination of such transactions, may increase the possibility that the Company will experience a future ownership change under Section 382.  

Under Section 382, a future ownership change would subject the Company to additional annual limitations that apply to the amount of pre-ownership change NOLs that may be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income. This limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of a corporation’s stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. Any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. This limitation could cause the Company’s U.S. federal income taxes to be greater, or to be paid earlier, than they otherwise would be, and could cause all or a portion of the Company’s NOL carryforwards to expire unused. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. The Company’s ability to use its NOL carryforwards will also depend on the amount of taxable income it generates in future periods. Its NOL carryforwards may expire before the Company can generate sufficient taxable income to use them in full.  

UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits certain transfers of its stock which could have an effect on the market price of UAL common stock.  

To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the Company’s ability to use its NOL carryforwards for federal income tax purposes, UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a 5% ownership limitation. This limitation generally remains effective until February 1, 2017, or until such later date as may be approved by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion. The limitation prohibits (i) an acquisition by a single stockholder of shares that results in that stockholder owning 5% or more of UAL common stock and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of UAL common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the Board of Directors.  

Any transfer of common stock in violation of these restrictions will be void and will be treated as if such transfer never occurred. This provision of UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation may impair or prevent a sale of common stock by a stockholder and adversely affect the price at which a stockholder can sell UAL common stock. In addition, this limitation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, creating a perception that a change in control cannot occur or otherwise discouraging takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider beneficial, which could also adversely affect the market price of the UAL common stock. The Company cannot predict the effect that this provision in UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have on the market price of the UAL common stock. For additional information regarding the 5% ownership limitation, please refer to UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation available on the Company’s website.  

Certain provisions of UAL’s Governance Documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the Board of Directors.  

Certain provisions of UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (together, the “Governance Documents”) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board of Directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial.  

Certain provisions of the Governance Documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if the Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of UAL and its stockholders. These provisions of the Governance Documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of UAL’s stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of UAL to negotiate with the Board of Directors, they could enable the Board of Directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or, they could prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.  

21  

Table of Contents 

The issuance of additional shares of UAL’s capital stock, including the issuance of common stock upon conversion of convertible notes, would cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders.  

UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. In certain circumstances, UAL can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. In addition, the Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock, without par value, without any action on the part of UAL’s stockholders. The Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over UAL’s common stock with respect to dividends or if UAL liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. If UAL issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if UAL issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected.  

The Company is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. The number of shares issued could be significant and such an issuance could cause significant dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. In addition, if UAL elects to pay the repurchase price in cash, its liquidity could be adversely affected.  

In the future, UAL may decide to raise additional capital through offerings of UAL common stock, securities convertible into UAL common stock, or exercise rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock, including upon the conversion or repurchase of convertible debt, could result in significant dilution of existing stockholders’ equity interests in UAL. Issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for UAL’s common stock and UAL cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock.  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.  

None.  

22  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.