ITEM 1. BUSINESS

McCormick is a global leader in flavor. The company manufactures, markets and distributes spices, seasoning mixes, condiments and other flavorful products to the entire food industry–retail outlets, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses. Our major sales, distribution and production facilities are located in North America and Europe. Additional facilities are based in China, Australia, Mexico, India, Singapore, Central America, Thailand and South Africa. McCormick & Company, Incorporated was formed in 1915 under Maryland law as the successor to a business established in 1889.

Business Segments 

We operate in two business segments, consumer and industrial. Consistent with market conditions in each segment, our consumer business has a higher overall profit margin than our industrial business. In 2012, the consumer business contributed 60% of sales and 79% of operating income and the industrial business contributed 40% of sales and 21% of operating income.

Across both segments, we have the customer base and product breadth to participate in all types of eating occasions, whether it is cooking at home, dining out, purchasing a quick service meal or enjoying a snack. We offer our customers and consumers a range of products from premium to value-priced.

Consumer Business. From locations around the world, our brands reach consumers in more than 110 countries. Our leading brands in the Americas include McCormick®, Lawry’s® and Club House®. We also market authentic ethnic brands such as Zatarain’s®, Thai Kitchen® and Simply Asia®. In Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) our major brands include the Ducros®, Schwartz® and Kamis® brands of spices, herbs and seasonings and an extensive line of Vahiné® brand dessert items. In the Asia/Pacific region our primary brand is McCormick, with the exception of India where our recent joint venture owns and trades under the Kohinoor® brand.

Our customers span a variety of retail outlets that include grocery, mass merchandise, warehouse clubs, discount and drug stores, served directly and indirectly through distributors or wholesalers. In addition to marketing our branded products to these customers, we are also a leading supplier of private label items, also known as store brands.

Approximately half of our consumer business is spices, herbs and seasonings. For these products, we are a category leader in our primary markets with a 40% to 60% share of sales. There are a number of competitors in the spices, herbs and seasoning category.

More than 250 other brands are sold in the U.S. with additional brands in international markets. Some are owned by large food manufacturers, while others are supplied by small privately owned companies. Our leadership position allows us to efficiently innovate, merchandise and market our brands.

Industrial Business. In our industrial business, we provide a wide range of products to multinational food manufacturers and foodservice customers. The foodservice customers are supplied both directly and indirectly through distributors. Among food manufacturers and foodservice customers, many of our relationships have been active for decades. We focus our resources on our strategic partners that we believe offer the greatest prospects for growth. Our range of products remains one of the broadest in the industry and includes seasoning blends, natural spices and herbs, wet flavors, coating systems and compound flavors. In addition to a broad range of flavor solutions, we strive to achieve customer intimacy. Our customers benefit from our expertise in many areas, including sensory testing, culinary research, food safety and flavor application.

Our industrial business has a number of competitors. Some tend to specialize in a particular range of products and have a limited geographic reach. Other competitors include larger publicly held flavor companies that are more global in nature, but which also tend to specialize in a limited range of flavor solutions.

For financial information about our business segments, please refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis–Results of Operations” and note 14 of the financial statements.

For a discussion of our recent acquisition activity, please refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis–Acquisitions” and note 2 of the financial statements.

Raw Materials

The most significant raw materials used in our business are dairy products, pepper, rice, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), onion, soybean oil and wheat. Pepper and other spices and herbs are generally sourced from countries other than the United States. Other raw materials, like dairy products and onion, are primarily sourced from within the United States and locally, for many of our international locations. We are not aware of any existing government restrictions or other factors that could be expected to have a material adverse effect on the availability of the raw materials used in our business. Because the raw materials are agricultural products, they are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, and other factors beyond our control.

We respond to this volatility in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments.

Customers

McCormick’s products are sold directly to customers and also through brokers, wholesalers and distributors. In the consumer segment, products are then sold to consumers through a variety of retail outlets, including grocery, mass merchandise, warehouse clubs, discount and drug stores under a variety of brands. In the industrial segment, products are used by food and beverage manufacturers as ingredients for their finished goods and by foodservice customers as ingredients for menu items to enhance the flavor of their foods. Customers for the industrial segment include food manufacturers and the foodservice industry supplied both directly and indirectly through distributors.

We have a large number of customers for our products. Sales to one of our consumer business customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for 11% of consolidated sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010. Sales to one of our industrial business customers, PepsiCo, Inc., accounted for 11% of consolidated sales in 2012 and 2011, and 10% of consolidated sales in 2010. In 2012, 2011 and 2010 the top three customers in our industrial business represented between 50% and 53% of our global industrial sales. 

The dollar amount of backlog orders for our business is not material to an understanding of our business, taken as a whole. No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government.

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents

McCormick owns a number of trademark registrations. Although in the aggregate these trademarks are material to our business, the loss of any one of those trademarks, with the exception of our “McCormick,” “Lawry’s,” “Zatarain’s,” “Club House,” “Ducros,” “Schwartz,” “Vahiné,” “Kamis” and “Kohinoor” trademarks, would not have a materially adverse effect on our business. The “Mc – McCormick” trademark is extensively used by us in connection with the sale of our food products in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. markets. The terms of the trademark registrations are as prescribed by law and the registrations will be renewed for as long as we deem them to be useful.

We have entered into a number of license agreements authorizing the use of our trademarks by affiliated and non-affiliated entities. The loss of these license agreements would not have a materially adverse effect on our business. The term of the license agreements is generally three to five years or until such time as either party terminates the agreement. Those agreements with specific terms are renewable upon agreement of the parties.

We also own various patents, none of which individually are material to our business.

Seasonality

Due to seasonal factors inherent in McCormick’s business, our sales, income and cash from operations generally are lower in the first two quarters of the fiscal year, increase in the third quarter and are significantly higher in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. This seasonality reflects customer and consumer buying patterns, primarily in the consumer segment.

Working Capital

In order to meet increased demand for our consumer products during our fourth quarter, McCormick usually builds its inventories during the third quarter of the fiscal year. We generally finance working capital items (inventory and receivables) through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of our liquidity and capital resources, see note 5 of the financial statements and the “Liquidity and Financial Condition” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.”

Competition

McCormick competes in a marketplace that is global and highly competitive. Our strategies for competing in each of our segments include a focus on product innovation, price and value, product quality and customer intimacy. Additionally, in the consumer segment we focus on brand recognition and loyalty, effective advertising, promotional programs and the identification and satisfaction of consumer preferences.

Research and Development

Many of McCormick’s products are prepared from confidential formulas developed by our research laboratories and product development teams, and, in some cases, customer proprietary formulas. Expenditures for research and development were $57.8 million in 2012, $58.1 million in 2011, and $52.7 million in 2010. The amount spent on customer-sponsored research activities is not material.

Environmental Regulations

The cost of compliance with federal, state and local provisions related to protection of the environment has had no material effect on McCormick’s business. There were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in fiscal year 2012, and there are no material expenditures planned for such purposes in fiscal year 2013.

Employees

McCormick had approximately 9,000 full-time employees worldwide as of November 30, 2012. Including the impact of part-time employees worldwide, we had approximately 9,500 employees as of November 30, 2012. We believe our relationship with employees to be good. We have no collective bargaining contracts in the United States. At our foreign subsidiaries, approximately 1,350 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or similar arrangements.

Financial Information about Geographic Locations 

For information on the net sales and long-lived assets of McCormick by geographic area, see note 14 of the financial statements.

Foreign Operations

McCormick is subject in varying degrees to certain risks typically associated with a global business, such as local economic and market conditions, restrictions on investments, royalties, dividends and exchange rate fluctuations. Approximately 40% of sales in fiscal year 2012 were from non-U.S. operations. For information on how McCormick manages some of these risks, see the “Market Risk Sensitivity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.”

Forward-Looking Information

Certain statements contained in this report, including statements concerning expected performance such as those relating to net sales, earnings, cost savings, acquisitions and brand marketing support, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements may be identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” "should," "anticipate," “believe” and “plan.” These statements may relate to: the expected results of operations of businesses acquired by us, the expected impact of raw material costs and our pricing actions on our results of operations and gross margins, the expected productivity and working capital improvements, expected trends in net sales and earnings performance and other financial measures, the expectations of pension and postretirement plan contributions, the holding period and market risks associated with financial instruments, the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations, the adequacy of internally generated funds and existing sources of liquidity, such as the availability of bank financing, our ability to issue additional debt or equity securities and our expectations regarding purchasing shares of our common stock under the existing authorizations.

These and other forward-looking statements are based on management’s current views and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Results may be materially affected by external factors such as: damage to our reputation or brand name, business interruptions due to natural disasters or similar unexpected events, actions of competitors, customer relationships and financial condition, the ability to achieve expected cost savings and margin improvements, the successful acquisition and integration of new businesses, fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw and packaging materials, changes in regulatory requirements, and global economic conditions generally which would include the availability of financing, interest and inflation rates and investment return on retirement plan assets, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, risks associated with our information technology systems, the threat of data breaches or cyber attacks and other risks described herein under Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law.

Available Information

Our principal corporate internet website address is: www.mccormickcorporation.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC maintains an Internet web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding McCormick. Our website also includes our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Ethics Policy and charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors.

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS