ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand McCormick & Company Incorporated, our operations and our present business environment. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes thereto contained in Item 8 of this report.

McCormick is a global leader in flavor. The company manufactures, markets and distributes spices, seasoning mixes, condiments and other flavorful products to the entire food industry–retail outlets, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses. We manage our business in two operating segments, consumer and industrial as described in Item 1 of this report.

Our strategy for growth is to increase sales and profit by investing in the business and fueling that investment with our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement - CCI - cost savings. CCI is our ongoing initiative to improve productivity and reduce costs throughout the organization. Our long-term annual growth objectives are to increase sales 4% to 6%, increase operating income 7% to 9% and increase earnings per share 9% to 11%. Over time, we expect similar contributions to sales growth largely from three sources: 1) our base business–driven by brand marketing support, expanded distribution and category growth; 2) product innovation; and 3) acquisitions. In addition to fueling sales growth, our CCI program is contributing to higher operating income and earnings per share. 

Our business generates strong cash flow and we have a balanced use of cash, funding dividends, which we have increased in each of the past 27 years, capital expenditures, acquisitions and share repurchases. Each year, we expect a combination of acquisitions and share repurchases to add about 2% to earnings per share growth.

In 2012, our financial results were at or above these long-term goals. Sales grew 9%, exceeding the long-term objective of 4% to 6%, due to increased pricing taken in response to significant increases in raw and packaging material costs, as well as incremental sales from three acquisitions completed in 2011. The increase in operating income of 7%, was within our long-term goal, but below our expectations of 9% to 11% growth in 2012. Earnings per share rose 9% to $3.04 from $2.79 in 2011. This growth was achieved with the increase in operating income and a favorable income tax rate, offset in part by lower income from unconsolidated operations which were under pressure from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Mexican peso. 

We generated strong cash flow in 2012. Net cash provided by operating activities reached a $455 million, a 34% increase from $340 million in 2011. In addition to higher net income, inventory was unchanged in 2012 in contrast to a significant increase in 2011 that was driven by higher costs, strategic inventory purchases and acquisitions. 

Along with our solid financial performance, there were a number of important accomplishments in 2012, which included:

We launched more than 250 branded products for our consumer business and across both businesses, new products launched in the past three years added 8% to 2012 sales.

Due in part to acquisitions completed in 2011, sales in emerging markets rose 47% to reach 14% of net sales, an increase from 10% in the prior year. 

CCI cost savings reached $56 million.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2012 COMPARED TO 2011

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for the fiscal year rose 8.6% from 2011 with strong growth in both of our consumer and industrial businesses. Pricing actions, taken in response to increased raw material and packaging costs, added 4.4% to sales. The incremental impact of acquisitions completed in 2011 accounted for a 4.3% increase to sales, and increased volume and product mix in the base business added 1.4% to sales. The impact of foreign exchange rates was unfavorable in 2012, reducing sales 1.5%. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2012, gross profit increased 6.3%, however our gross profit margin declined 90 basis points. In fiscal year 2012, we were able to offset the dollar impact of a high single digit increase in raw material and packaging costs with our pricing actions and CCI cost savings. In 2012, CCI cost savings totaled $56 million of which $39 million lowered cost of goods sold. While pricing and CCI cost savings offset the dollar impact of increased material costs, the net impact of these factors caused downward pressure on gross profit as a percentage of net sales. Margins were further pressured by our mix of sales in 2012, as sales in international markets grew at a faster rate than in the U.S., where our gross profit margin is higher due to larger scale and less complexity. 

In 2013 we expect material cost inflation to moderate to an increase of approximately 3%. Due to the low interest rate environment, retirement benefit expense is expected to increase by $22 million in 2013. About 40% of this increase is expected to impact cost of goods sold. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 5.8% in 2012 from 2011, but decreased as a percentage of net sales for those same time periods. The decrease in SG&A as a percent of net sales was primarily driven by a leveraging effect of our higher sales on these costs. We had a benefit from CCI cost savings that lowered SG&A $17 million in 2012 and a favorable comparison to 2011 when SG&A included $10.9 million of transaction costs related to completed acquisitions, while 2012 had only $1.7 million of such costs.

During 2012, we increased brand marketing support by $11.0 million to $198.3 million. A large portion of this increase was in digital marketing, which is one of our highest return investments in brand marketing support. 

In 2013, due to the low interest rate environment, retirement benefit expense is expected to increase by $22 million. About 60% of this increase is expected to impact SG&A. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense for 2012 was higher than the prior year. The impact of higher average debt balances in 2012 compared to 2011 was partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates for 2012 compared to 2011. The higher average debt balances in 2012 were due to the acquisitions completed late in 2011.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2012, we repatriated $70.0 million of cash from foreign subsidiaries. This transaction generated U.S. foreign tax credits due to the mix of foreign earnings that related to this cash. These U.S. foreign tax credits reduced 2012 tax expense by $9.7 million and were the major driving factor in a reduction in the tax rate for 2012 as compared to the prior year.

Discrete tax benefits in 2012 were $2.0 million compared to $0.8 million in 2011. The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the reversal of a portion of a valuation allowance originally established against a subsidiary's net operating losses. This subsidiary has established a pattern of profitability which resulted in us concluding that a portion of the valuation allowance should be reversed.

In 2010, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) commenced an examination of our U.S. federal income tax return for the 2007 and 2008 tax years. During the course of the examination, we held discussions with the IRS on certain issues and in October 2012 we received proposed adjustments for these tax years. In November 2012 we deposited $18.8 million with the IRS to stop any potential interest on these proposed adjustments. We believe we have established appropriate deferred taxes or tax accruals under US GAAP for these issues in prior periods. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of uncertain tax positions, we believe that our unrecognized tax benefits reflect the most likely outcome. We will continue to update these unrecognized tax benefits, and the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances in the future. 

In addition, see note 10 of the financial statements for a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate with the effective tax rate.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income from unconsolidated operations decreased $3.9 million in 2012 compared to 2011. Most of this decrease is attributable to our largest joint venture, McCormick de Mexico, which was negatively impacted by an unfavorable foreign exchange rate between the Mexican peso an the U.S. dollar for most of 2012. While this business grew sales 6%, profits were also pressured by higher soybean oil cost (a main ingredient for mayonnaise which is the leading product for this joint venture). This situation began in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the year-on-year impact in the fourth quarter of 2012 had eased. 

In 2012, our McCormick de Mexico joint venture represented 59% of the sales and 82% of the net income of our unconsolidated joint ventures. We own a 26% share in our Eastern Condiments joint venture and on average own 50% of our other unconsolidated joint ventures. 

We reported diluted earnings per share of $3.04 in 2012, compared to $2.79 in 2011. The following table outlines the major components of the change in diluted earnings per share from 2011 to 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consumer Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We grew consumer business sales 9.8% in 2012 when compared to 2011, which included a 7.2% increase from acquisitions completed in 2011. The remaining increase was driven by higher pricing which added 3.7% and volume and product mix which added 0.3%. Unfavorable foreign exchange rates reduced sales by 1.4%.

In the Americas, consumer business sales rose 4.0%, primarily as a result of pricing actions which added 4.5%. These pricing actions, taken in response to an increase in material costs, went into effect late in fiscal year 2011. Our 2011 acquisition of Kitchen Basics® added 0.8% to sales, volume and product mix reduced sales by 1.1% and foreign exchange rates reduced sales by 0.2%. While higher prices had an unfavorable impact on volume and product mix, we offset this in part with our initiatives to drive growth through new product introductions and brand marketing. In 2012, our new product launches included a line of gourmet recipe mixes, authentic Hispanic recipe mixes, Zatarain's frozen Dinners for Two, new varieties of Grill Mates, and in Canada, Club House brand grinders. A portion of our incremental brand marketing support was in support of our new products. We also increased our digital marketing activity, which offers a more personal way to interact with consumers. Recipe views at www.mccormick.com rose 30% in 2012 and our Facebook fan base grew to 1.5 million. In 2011, we reported that an estimated $10 million in sales shifted from the first quarter of 2011 into the fourth quarter of 2010, as a result of customer purchases in advance of a late 2010 price increase. 

In Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), consumer business sales increased 15.3%, with our 2011 acquisition of Kamis adding 16.9% to sales. Unfavorable foreign currency decreased sales 5.7%. In local currency and excluding the impact of acquisitions, we grew sales 4.1% with 2.9% from volume and product mix and 1.2% from pricing actions. During 2012, we successfully completed the integration of Kamis and sales from this Poland-based business benefited from particular strength in its subsidiary in Russia. For the base business in EMEA, strong execution behind product innovation, brand marketing and new distribution enabled us to achieve growth in a difficult economic environment. We have moved to a masterbrand approach to gain synergies and efficiencies in product development and brand marketing support across our country-specific brands. New products introduced in 2012 included Bag 'n Season®, Grill Mates®, Recipe Inspirations® and a number of Vahiné brand dessert items.

In the Asia/Pacific region, sales rose 65.3%. The impact of our 2011 Kohinoor joint venture added 53.8% to sales and favorable foreign exchange rates added 0.4%. We grew sales in local currency, excluding the impact of Kohinoor, 11.1% with 7.7% from volume and product mix and 3.4% from pricing. This increase was driven by China where we achieved rapid sales growth of 23.1% based largely on increased consumer demand. In our other market, Australia, we grew sales 2.9% despite a difficult competitive environment, due in part to new product activity. 

Consumer business operating income rose to $456.1 million from $428.4 million in 2011, a 6.4% increase. The growth in operating income was the result of higher sales and CCI savings. Also, operating income in 2011 included the impact of $10.9 million of transaction costs related to the completion of acquisitions that year. In 2012, we invested $13.2 million in additional brand marketing support. Operating income margin was 18.9% in 2012 compared to 19.5% in 2011. This reduction is due in part to the mix of business across regions, as sales in international markets grew at a faster rate than in the U.S., where our profit margin is higher due to larger scale and less complexity. 

Industrial Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for the industrial business grew 6.8% from 2011. Pricing actions taken to offset the impact of higher material costs added 5.3%, while volume and product mix added 3.1% and unfavorable foreign exchange rates decreased sales 1.6%. Both food manufacturers and foodservice customers continue to have an interest in products that feature all natural ingredients, reduced sodium and other healthy attributes. These types of projects accounted for more than 30% of our product development activity during 2012.

In the Americas, we grew industrial business sales 8.2%, with 6.4% from pricing actions and a 2.8% increase from favorable volume and product mix, partially offset by a decrease of 1.0% from unfavorable foreign exchange rates. We grew sales of seasonings and flavors to a number of food manufacturers and also increased sales of branded items to foodservice distributors. However, for the quick service restaurant industry, we saw lower demand for our products and less customer-driven innovation during this period.

In EMEA, industrial business sales rose 5.5%, with a strong 7.7% increase in volume and product mix, as well as a 3.6% increase from pricing actions. These were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange rates that reduced sales by 5.8%. Demand from quick service restaurants remains robust, and we are meeting this demand with products that we supply from our facilities in the U.K., Turkey and South Africa.

Industrial business sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose 1.1%. Higher pricing added 2.4% and favorable foreign exchange rates added 1.2%, while volume and product mix declined 2.5%. By comparison, volume and product mix for our industrial business in the Asia/Pacific region rose 10.7% in 2011 and included a significant impact from new product introductions and regional expansion by quick service restaurants. While we did not have a similar incremental benefit from new product and customer promotion activity in 2012, we believe this part of our business continues to offer long-term growth. 

Industrial business operating income increased to $122.2 million from $111.9 million in 2011, a 9.2% increase. The growth in operating income was driven largely by higher sales and cost savings from CCI. Our industrial business operating income margin ended 2012 at 7.6% compared to 7.5% in 2011. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2011 COMPARED TO 2010

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for the fiscal year rose 10.8% from 2010 with double-digit growth in both of our consumer and industrial businesses. Our pricing actions, which were taken to offset the impact of steep increases in material costs, added 4.6% to sales, and favorable foreign exchange rates increased sales another 2.1%. New product introductions, expanded distribution and brand marketing support led to favorable volume and product mix, which combined, added 2.5% to sales. Acquisitions added 1.6% to sales.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2011, gross profit increased 7.4%, however our gross profit margin declined 130 basis points. In fiscal year 2011, we experienced a double digit increase in raw material and packaging costs. While we were able to offset the dollar impact of these costs with our pricing actions and CCI cost savings, the net impact of these factors caused downward pressure on gross profit as a percentage of net sales. In addition, we had a negative effect on gross margin from product and segment mix in the year. Product mix was unfavorable in our industrial business with an increased demand for ingredients and weak demand for branded foodservice products during this period. Unfavorable segment mix was due to the higher sales growth rate of our industrial business, which has lower gross margin than our consumer business. CCI cost savings totaled $65 million in 2011, of which $45 million lowered cost of goods sold.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses in total dollars increased in 2011 compared to 2010, but decreased as a percentage of net sales for those same time periods. The increase in total dollars was largely driven by higher incremental brand marketing support, SG&A of acquired businesses and $10.9 million of transaction costs related to completed acquisitions. The decrease in SG&A as a percent of net sales is primarily driven by lower selling costs as a percentage of net sales.

During 2011, we increased brand marketing support by $20.1 million or 12%. A portion of this increase was in digital marketing, which is one of our highest return investments in brand marketing support. We nearly doubled our digital marketing in the past year, including a program behind Grill Mates in the U.S. that contributed to a 7% unit increase in 2011. We also increased support behind our Hispanic products in the U.S., which included television and a sampling program. This helped drive a 9% increase in sales of Hispanic products which exceeded $100 million for the first time in 2011.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense for 2011 was higher than the prior year. This was caused by higher average debt balances, due to our acquisitions in 2011 and a slightly higher weighted-average interest rate.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in the tax rate in 2011 was due to a lower level of net discrete tax benefits, decreased U.S. foreign tax credits in the current year as compared to the prior year, partially offset by a favorable mix of earnings among our different tax jurisdictions.

Discrete tax benefits in 2011 were $0.8 million compared to $20.1 million in 2010. The $20.1 million in 2010 was mainly due to a $13.9 million reversal of a tax accrual for a closed tax year. This tax accrual was recorded in a prior period based on uncertainties about the tax aspects of transactions related to the reorganization of our European operations and divestment of certain of our joint ventures.

In 2010, U.S. foreign tax credits included the impact of a $108.5 million repatriation of cash from foreign subsidiaries. Due to the mix of foreign earnings related to this cash, the repatriation generated additional tax credits.

In addition, see note 10 of the financial statements for a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate with the effective tax rate.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income from unconsolidated operations decreased $0.1 million in 2011 compared to 2010. We increased income with our unconsolidated joint venture in India, Eastern Condiments, which was completed late in fiscal year 2010. This was offset by investment spending behind our new joint venture in Turkey and decreases in some of our smaller joint ventures. Our largest joint venture, McCormick de Mexico, had net income comparable to the prior year. While this business grew sales 12%, profits were pressured by higher soybean oil cost and a weakening Mexico peso in the fourth quarter of 2011. 

We own a 26% share in our Eastern Condiments joint venture and on average own 50% of our other unconsolidated joint ventures. In 2011, sales of these joint ventures grew 32% to $709 million (at 100% of these businesses) with many products marketed under the McCormick name. The Eastern Condiments joint venture added 18%, while existing joint ventures increased sales by 14%.

We reported diluted earnings per share of $2.79 in 2011, compared to $2.75 in 2010. The following table outlines the major components of the change in diluted earnings per share from 2010 to 2011:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consumer Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We grew consumer business sales 10.0% in 2011 when compared to 2010. Higher pricing added 5.1% and favorable foreign exchange rates added 1.8%. Volume and product mix rose 3.1%, which included a 2.6% increase from acquisitions in 2011.

In the Americas, consumer business sales rose 8.2%, primarily as a result of pricing actions which added 6.0%. Our acquisition of Kitchen Basics added 1.1% to sales, other increases in volume and product mix added 0.4% and favorable foreign exchange rates added 0.7%. Increased pricing unfavorably impacted volume and product mix during 2011. In addition, an estimated $10 million in sales shifted from the first quarter of 2011 into the fourth quarter of 2010, as a result of customer purchases in advance of a late 2010 price increase. However, the impact of these reductions to volume and product mix were more than offset by a favorable impact of product innovation, brand marketing support and expanded distribution. New products introduced in 2011 included new Recipe Inspirations, grinders, Grill Mates and reduced sodium dry seasoning mixes. We had particular success with new Zatarain’s frozen entrees which helped contribute to a 40% increase in sales of Zatarain’s frozen products. A portion of our incremental brand marketing support was directed toward a new advertising campaign for dry seasoning mixes, a Hispanic marketing program that included sampling, and a digital marketing program behind Grill Mates which contributed to a 7% unit increase in Grill Mates sales. New distribution was gained for both brand and private label items in a variety of retail channels that included grocery, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and drug chains.

In Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), consumer business sales increased 13.5%. Our acquisition of Kamis added 6.5% to sales, favorable foreign exchange rates added 4.2% and pricing actions added 2.8%. In our largest market, France, we achieved solid growth with higher pricing, which was slightly offset by lower volume and product mix. We introduced nearly 40 new products in this market, including an organic line of Ducros spices and herbs and a number of Vahiné dessert items, and gained new distribution with a large grocery retailer. A highly competitive retail environment in the U.K. made sales growth in this market a challenge, even with the introduction of new products and distribution gains into smaller store formats with a major customer. We adapted to this environment by redirecting a portion of our brand marketing support to emphasize the value of our products, accelerating the introduction of new products and working to achieve secondary placement of our brand in retail stores. Export sales into developing markets contributed to growth in 2011 and we improved results in smaller markets such as Spain and Portugal, which experienced significant declines in 2010.

Consumer business sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose 22.5%. Favorable foreign exchange rates added 9.4% to sales, the impact of our new Kohinoor joint venture added 9.1% to sales, other increases in volume and product mix added 2.0% and pricing actions added 2.0%. Sales in China grew 10% in local currency during the year as a result of pricing actions, product introductions and new television advertising. Our business in Australia was unfavorably impacted by a challenging competitive environment, leading to a modest decline in 2011 sales when measured in local currency.

Consumer business operating income increased $26.0 million to $428.4 million, a 6.5% increase from 2010. The profit impact of higher sales and CCI savings were offset in part by increased material costs. We also funded an increased investment in brand marketing support which rose $15 million in 2011, including a $4 million increase that related to acquisitions. Profit from our 2011 acquisitions had a minimal impact on 2011 operating income during a period of integration. In 2011, we recorded $10.9 million of transaction costs related to acquisitions completed in 2011, which lowered operating income margin by 0.5%. Operating income margin was 19.5% in 2011 compared to 20.1% in 2010.

Industrial Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for the industrial business grew 11.9% from 2010, with higher volume and product mix adding 5.5% to sales. Pricing actions added 3.9% while favorable foreign exchange rates increased sales 2.5%.

In the Americas, industrial business sales rose 10.2%, with a 4.7% increase from favorable volume and product mix, 4.5% from pricing actions and 1.0% from favorable foreign exchange rates. Strong sales to food manufacturers were driven in part by the development of new products and increased demand for snack seasonings and ingredients, particularly in the U.S. and Mexico. While sales to the foodservice industry were favorably impacted by product introductions, a number of our customers were impacted by the weak economy. Both food manufacturers and foodservice customers continue to have an interest in products that feature all natural ingredients, reduced sodium and other healthy attributes. These types of projects accounted for 40% of our product development activity in the U.S. during 2011.

In EMEA, industrial business sales rose 12.3%, with a 5.8% increase from favorable volume and product mix, 2.9% from pricing actions and 3.6% from favorable foreign exchange rates. As in 2010, demand from quick service restaurants was high and continued to be the key sales driver in this region. We had particular strength in the sales of products that we manufacture in our facilities in the U.K., Turkey and South Africa for these customers, and supported their expansion in Russia and the Middle East.

Industrial business sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose 22.0%. Favorable volume and product mix grew sales 10.7%, favorable foreign exchange rates added 9.0% and increased pricing actions added 2.3%. As in EMEA, sales to quick service restaurants were a source of strong growth in 2011. The rapid expansion of quick service restaurants in this region and our new product activity contributed to a 15% increase of industrial business sales in China when measured in local currency. We also supported the expansion of quick service restaurants into India, further adding to our sales growth in this region.

Industrial business operating income increased $4.5 million to $111.9 million, a 4.2% increase from 2010. The profit impact of higher sales and CCI cost savings were offset in part by increased material costs and an investment in our branded foodservice business with $5 million of incremental marketing support. The net effect of these items, along with our sales mix of products during 2011, led to a decline in industrial business operating income margin to 7.5% from 8.0% in 2011. Since 2005 we have improved the operating income margin of this business and expect to achieve further improvements in margin in a less volatile input cost environment and as a result of our development of more value-added, higher margin new products.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

The tables below include financial measures of net income and diluted earnings per share excluding the benefit of the reversal of a significant tax accrual in 2010. There were no adjustments to 2012 or 2011 financial results. This is a non-GAAP financial measure which is prepared as a complement to our financial results prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. We believe this non-GAAP information is important for purposes of comparison to prior periods and development of future projections and earnings growth prospects. This information is also used by management to measure the profitability of our ongoing operations and analyze our business performance and trends. 

In 2010 our discrete tax benefits included a $13.9 million reversal of a tax accrual for a closed tax year. This tax accrual was recorded in a prior period based on uncertainties about the tax aspects of transactions related to the reorganization of our European operations and divestment of certain of our joint ventures. We are treating this $13.9 million discrete tax benefit as a non-GAAP adjustment to our diluted earnings per share. We are providing non-GAAP results that exclude the impact of this reversal as the item to which it relates was recorded as a restructuring charge, and it allows for a better comparison of 2010 financial results to 2011 and 2012. When we had restructuring charges in periods prior to 2010 we used non-GAAP financial measures to display earnings exclusive of these restructuring charges.

These non-GAAP measures may be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but they should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. We intend to continue to provide these non-GAAP financial measures as part of our future earnings discussions and, therefore, the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures will provide consistency in our financial reporting. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP financial results is provided below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to the non-GAAP measures for net income and diluted earnings per share, we use total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) as a measure of leverage. EBITDA and the ratio of total debt to EBITDA are both non-GAAP financial measures. This ratio measures our ability to repay outstanding debt obligations. Our target for total debt to EBITDA, excluding the temporary impact from acquisition activity, is 1.5 to 1.7. We believe that total debt to EBITDA is a meaningful metric to investors in evaluating our financial leverage and may be different than the method used by other companies to calculate total debt to EBITDA. 

We define EBITDA as net income plus expenses of interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. The following table reconciles our EBITDA to our net income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We generate strong cash flow from operations which enables us to fund operating projects and investments that are designed to meet our growth objectives, increase our dividend, fund capital projects and make share repurchases when appropriate. In 2013, we expect to continue our share repurchase activity and use a portion of our cash flow from operations to help fund our acquisition of Wuhan Asia-Pacific Condiments Co., Ltd., which is expected to close mid-year.

In the cash flow statement, the changes in operating assets and liabilities are presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these do not reflect actual cash flows. Accordingly, the amounts in the cash flow statement do not agree with changes in the operating assets and liabilities that are presented in the balance sheet.

The reported values of our assets and liabilities held in our non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates can be significantly affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between periods. At November 30, 2012, the exchange rates for the Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Polish zloty and British pound sterling were slightly higher versus the U.S. dollar compared to 2011. At November 30, 2012, the exchange rate for the Euro and Indian rupee versus the U.S. dollar were lower than at November 30, 2011. 

Operating Cash Flow– When 2012 is compared to 2011, the increase in operating cash flow was led by a small decrease in inventory, whereas in 2011 we had a significant increase in inventory. In addition, we generated cash from higher net income in 2012. Our total pension contributions were $104.3 million in 2012 as compared to $42.7 million in 2011, which provided a partial offset to the increases noted above.

When 2011 is compared to 2010, the decrease in operating cash flow was driven by a higher level of inventory in 2011 as compared to the prior year. The increase in inventory in 2011 was largely due to an increase in our strategic positions for a number of spices and herbs and the higher cost impact of raw materials from inflation. These uses of operating cash were partially offset by a higher level of cash generated from improved net income in 2011. Our total pension contributions were $42.7 million in 2011 as compared to $49.5 million in 2010.

In addition to operating cash flow, we also use cash conversion cycle (CCC) to measure our working capital management. This metric is different than operating cash flow in that it uses average balances instead of specific point in time measures. CCC is a calculation of the number of days, on average, that it takes us to convert a cash outlay for resources, such as raw materials, to a cash inflow from collection of accounts receivable. Our goal is to lower our CCC over time. We calculate CCC as follows:

Days sales outstanding (average trade accounts receivable divided by average daily net sales) plus days in inventory (average inventory divided by average daily cost of goods sold) less days payable outstanding (average trade accounts payable divided by average daily cost of goods sold plus the average daily change in inventory).

The following table outlines our cash conversion cycle (in days) over the last three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in CCC from 2011 to 2012 is mainly due to a decrease in our days in inventory as a result of decreased strategic raw material inventory. The increase in CCC from 2010 to 2011 is largely due to an increase in our days in inventory. In the future we expect to continue to reduce CCC by decreasing our days in inventory.

Investing Cash Flow– The changes in cash used in investing activities from 2010 to 2012 were primarily due to fluctuations in cash used for acquisition of businesses and joint venture interests in 2011 and 2010 with no acquisitions in 2012. We invested $441.4 million and $46.9 million in acquisitions and joint venture interests in 2011 and 2010, respectively. See note 2 of the financial statements for further details of these acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $110.3 million in 2012, $96.7 million in 2011 and $89.0 million in 2010. We expect 2013 capital expenditures to be slightly above depreciation and amortization expense.

Financing Cash Flow– The change in cash flow from financing activities from 2010 to 2012 is primarily due to a change in net borrowings. In 2012, we repaid borrowings of $80.5 million, including short-term borrowings of $76.6 million. In 2011, we issued $250 million of 3.90% notes due 2021, with net cash proceeds received of $247.5 million. The net proceeds from this offering were used to fund in part our acquisition of Kamis. In 2011, we also increased our short-term borrowings by $216.7 million and repaid $100.0 million in long-term debt. In 2010, we repaid borrowings of $114.0 million, which included short-term borrowings of $99.6 million and $14.4 million in long-term debt. 

The following table outlines the activity in our share repurchase programs (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In June 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program to purchase up to $400 million of our outstanding shares. In September 2010, we completed a $400 million share repurchase program authorized by the Board in June 2005. As of November 30, 2012, $137 million remained of the new share repurchase program. 

The common stock issued in 2012, 2011 and 2010 relates to our stock compensation plans.

Our dividend history over the past three years is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In November 2012, the Board of Directors approved a 9.7% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.31 to $0.34 per share. During the past five years, dividends per share have risen at a compound annual rate of 9.1%.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in our total debt to EBITDA from 2010 to 2012 are mainly due to changes in our debt in conjunction with acquisition activity and subsequent reduction of that debt. In 2011, we increased our debt levels to help fund our Kohinoor, Kamis and Kitchen Basics acquisitions. During 2012, the debt associated with these acquisitions was reduced to bring our total debt to EBITDA within our target range of 1.5 to 1.7. 

Most of our cash is in our foreign subsidiaries. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct our business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The permanent repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences; however, those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations, capital projects and future acquisitions. At year-end, we temporarily used $165.6 million of cash from our foreign subsidiaries to pay down short-term debt in the U.S. The average short-term borrowings outstanding for the years ended November 30, 2012 and 2011 were $417.2 million and $344.0 million, respectively. The total average debt outstanding for the years ended November 30, 2012 and 2011 was $1,422.2 million and $1,261.5 million, respectively.

In November 2012, we entered into a total of $50 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements to manage our interest rate risk associated with the anticipated issuance of at least $50 million of fixed rates notes by August 2013. We intend to issue fixed rate notes in 2013 to retire the $250 million of notes that are coming due in September 2013. We intend to cash settle these swap agreements upon issuance of the fixed rate notes thereby effectively locking in the interest rate in effect at the time the swap agreements were initiated. The fixed rate of these agreements is 1.90%. We have designated these forward starting interest rate swap agreements, which expire on August 28, 2013, as cash flow hedges. The gain or loss on these agreements is deferred in other comprehensive income and will be amortized over the life of the fixed rate notes as a component of interest expense. Hedge ineffectiveness of these agreements was not material in the year. 

In May and June 2011, we entered into a total of $200 million of forward U.S. Treasury rate lock agreements to manage the U.S. Treasury portion of our interest rate risk associated with the anticipated issuance of fixed rate notes in July 2011. We cash settled all of these agreements, which were designated as cash flow hedges, for a loss of $0.2 million simultaneous with the issuance of the notes at an all in effective fixed rate of 4.01% on the full $250 million of debt. The loss on these agreements is deferred in other comprehensive income and will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the notes. Hedge ineffectiveness of these agreements was not material. 

See notes 5 and 6 of the financial statements for further details of these transactions.

Credit and Capital Markets– While global and European credit markets have stabilized in 2012, the global economy is still fragile. The following summarizes the more significant impacts of credit and capital markets on our business:

CREDIT FACILITIES– Cash flows from operating activities are our primary source of liquidity for funding growth, dividends and capital expenditures. For 2012, the second half of 2010 and the first half of 2011, we also used this cash to make share repurchases. In the first half of 2010, we used operating cash flow to pay down debt incurred in the Lawry’s acquisition and did not repurchase shares. In the second half of 2011, we used operating cash flow to help fund our 2011 acquisitions of Kamis, Kohinoor and Kitchen Basics. We also rely on our revolving credit facility, or borrowings backed by this facility, to fund seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate requirements. Our major revolving credit facility has a total committed capacity of $600 million, which expires in 2016. We generally use this facility to support our issuance of commercial paper. If the commercial paper market is not available or viable we could borrow directly under our revolving credit facility. The facility is made available by a syndicate of banks, with various commitments per bank. If any of the banks in this syndicate are unable to perform on their commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could reduce our ability to grow through funding of seasonal working capital. In addition to our committed revolving credit facility, we have uncommitted credit facilities for $55.5 million as of November 30, 2012. We engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our credit facilities. During these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. In addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions and other aspects of the relationships. Based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe our banks will perform on their commitments. See also note 5 of the financial statements for more details on our financing arrangements. We believe that our internally generated funds and the existing sources of liquidity under our credit facilities are sufficient to fund ongoing operations.

PENSION ASSETS– We hold investments in equity and debt securities in both our qualified defined benefit pension plans and through a rabbi trust for our nonqualified defined benefit pension plan. Cash payments to pension plans, including unfunded plans, were $104.3 million in 2012, $42.7 million in 2011 and $49.5 million in 2010. Our cash contributions in 2012 include a $35 million contribution made late in the fiscal year to bring the pension plan's funding status within company guidelines. It is expected that the 2013 total pension plan contributions will be approximately $45 million. Future increases or decreases in pension liabilities and required cash contributions are highly dependent on changes in interest rates and the actual return on plan assets. We base our investment of plan assets, in part, on the duration of each plan’s liabilities. Across all plans, approximately 60% of assets are invested in equities, 30% in fixed income investments and 10% in other investments. See also note 8 of the financial statements which provides details on our pension funding.

CUSTOMERS AND COUNTERPARTIES– See the subsequent section of this MD&A under Market Risk Sensitivity–Credit Risk.

ACQUISITIONS

Acquisitions are part of our strategy to increase sales and profits. We have a particular interest in emerging markets.

In August 2012, we signed an agreement to purchase the assets of Wuhan Asia-Pacific Condiments Co., Ltd. (WAPC), a privately held company based in China. The completion of the acquisition is expected to occur in mid-2013, subject to regulatory approval, and will be included in our consumer business segment. We have agreed to acquire the company for approximately $141 million, subject to certain closing adjustments. 

In 2011, we purchased the assets of Kitchen Basics, Inc., based in the U.S., for $40 million and the shares of Kamis S.A., based in Poland for $287 million. Both deals are consumer businesses and were financed with a combination of cash and debt. We also completed a joint venture with Kohinoor Foods Ltd. In India. We invested $113 million for an 85% interest in Kohinoor Speciality Foods India Private Limited, financed with a combination of cash and debt. This joint venture is consolidated and included in our consumer business segment. See note 2 of the financial statements for further details of these acquisitions.

PERFORMANCE GRAPH—SHAREHOLDER RETURN

Below is a line graph comparing the yearly change in McCormick’s cumulative total shareholder return (stock price appreciation plus reinvestment of dividends) on McCormick’s Non-Voting Common Stock with (1) the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Price Index, assuming reinvestment of dividends, and (2) the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s Packaged Foods & Meats Index, assuming reinvestment of dividends.

MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY

We utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including foreign exchange and interest rate exposures, which exist as part of our ongoing business operations. We do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instrument. The use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. The information presented below should be read in conjunction with notes 5 and 6 of the financial statements.

Foreign Exchange Risk– We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. Primary exposures include the U.S. dollar versus the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Polish zloty, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi, Indian rupee, Thai baht, Swiss franc and the British pound sterling versus the Euro. We routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage certain of these foreign currency risks.

During 2012, the foreign currency translation component in other comprehensive income was principally related to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our net investments in France, the U.K., Poland, Canada and Australia. We did not hedge our net investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates.

The following table summarizes the foreign currency exchange contracts held at November 30, 2012. All contracts are valued in U.S. dollars using year-end 2012 exchange rates and have been designated as hedges of foreign currency transactional exposures, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.

 FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE CONTRACTS AT NOVEMBER 30, 2012

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have a number of smaller contracts with an aggregate notional value of $4.7 million to purchase or sell other currencies, such as the Swiss franc and the Singapore dollar as of November 30, 2012. The aggregate fair value of these contracts was $0.1 million at November 30, 2012.

Included in the table above are $84.9 million notional value of contracts that have durations of less than 7 days that are used to hedge short-term cash flow funding. Remaining contracts have durations of one to twelve months.

At November 30, 2011, we had foreign currency exchange contracts for the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Thai baht with a notional value of $127.6 million, all of which matured in 2012. The aggregate fair value of these contracts was $2.3 million at November 30, 2011.

Interest Rate Risk– Our policy is to manage interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. We also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing costs and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The table that follows provides principal cash flows and related interest rates, excluding the effect of interest rate swaps and the amortization of any discounts or fees, by fiscal year of maturity at November 30, 2012 and 2011. For foreign currency-denominated debt, the information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents. Variable interest rates are based on the weighted-average rates of the portfolio at the end of the year presented.

YEAR OF MATURITY AT NOVEMBER 30, 2012

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

YEAR OF MATURITY AT NOVEMBER 30, 2011

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table above displays the debt by the terms of the original debt instrument without consideration of fair value, interest rate swaps and any loan discounts or origination fees. Interest rate swaps have the following effects. The fixed interest rate on $100 million of the 5.20% notes due in 2015 is effectively converted to a variable rate by interest rate swaps through 2015. Net interest payments are based on 3 month LIBOR minus 0.05% during this period. We issued $250 million of 5.75% notes due in 2017 in December 2007. Forward treasury lock agreements of $150 million were settled upon the issuance of these notes and effectively fixed the interest rate on the full $250 million of notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 6.25%. We issued $250 million of 5.25% notes due in 2013 in September 2008. Forward treasury lock agreements of $100 million were settled upon the issuance of these notes and effectively fixed the interest rate on the full $250 million of notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 5.54%. We issued $250 million of 3.90% notes due in 2021 in July 2011. Forward treasury lock agreements of $200 million were settled upon the issuance of these notes and effectively fixed the interest rate on the full $250 million of notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 4.01%.

Commodity Risk– We purchase certain raw materials which are subject to price volatility caused by weather, market conditions, growing and harvesting conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. Our most significant raw materials are dairy products, pepper, rice, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), onion, soybean oil and wheat. While future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we respond to this volatility in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. We generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. To the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business.

Credit Risk– The customers of our consumer business are predominantly food retailers and food wholesalers. Consolidations in these industries have created larger customers. In addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels including mass merchandisers, dollar stores, warehouse clubs and discount chains. This has caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. Some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. We continue to closely monitor the credit worthiness of our customers and counterparties. We feel that the allowance for doubtful accounts properly recognizes trade receivables at realizable value. We consider nonperformance credit risk for other financial instruments to be insignificant.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS

The following table reflects a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of November 30, 2012:

CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS DUE BY YEAR

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Raw material purchase obligations outstanding as of year-end may not be indicative of outstanding obligations throughout the year due to our response to varying raw material cycles.

(b)Other purchase obligations primarily consist of advertising media commitments and electricity contracts.

In 2013, our pension and postretirement contributions are expected to be approximately $45 million. Pension and postretirement funding can vary significantly each year due to changes in legislation, our significant assumptions and investment return on plan assets. As a result, we have not presented pension and postretirement funding in the table above.

COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS EXPIRATION BY YEAR

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We had no off-balance sheet arrangements as of November 30, 2012 and 2011.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

New accounting pronouncements are issued periodically that affect our current and future operations. See note 1 of the financial statements for further details of these impacts.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS

In preparing the financial statements, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. These estimates can also affect supplemental information disclosed by us, including information about contingencies, risk and financial condition. We believe, given current facts and circumstances, our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, adhere to U.S. GAAP and are consistently applied. Inherent in the nature of an estimate or assumption is the fact that actual results may differ from estimates, and estimates may vary as new facts and circumstances arise. In preparing the financial statements, we make routine estimates and judgments in determining the net realizable value of accounts receivable, inventory, fixed assets and prepaid allowances. Our most critical accounting estimates and assumptions are in the following areas:

Customer Contracts

In several of our major geographic markets, the consumer business sells our products by entering into annual or multi-year customer contracts. These contracts include provisions for items such as sales discounts, marketing allowances and performance incentives. These items are expensed based on certain estimated criteria such as sales volume of indirect customers, customers reaching anticipated volume thresholds and marketing spending. We routinely review these criteria and make adjustments as facts and circumstances change.

Goodwill and Intangible Asset Valuation

We review the carrying value of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets and conduct tests of impairment on an annual basis as described below. We also test for impairment if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. We test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite-lived purchased intangible asset is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, assumed royalty rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates.

Goodwill Impairment

Our reporting units are the same as our operating segments. We calculate fair value of a reporting unit by using a discounted cash flow model. Our discounted cash flow model calculates fair value by present valuing future expected cash flows of our reporting units using our internal cost of capital as the discount rate. We then compare this fair value to the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including intangible assets and goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the calculated fair value, then we would determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. An impairment charge would be recognized to the extent the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value. As of November 30, 2012, we had $1,695.3 million of goodwill recorded in our balance sheet ($1,551.0 million in the consumer segment and $144.3 million in the industrial segment). Our testing indicates that the current fair values of our reporting units are significantly in excess of carrying values. Accordingly we believe that only significant changes in the cash flow assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill.

Indefinite-lived Intangible Asset Impairment

Our indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of brand names and trademarks. We calculate fair value by using a discounted cash flow model or relief-from-royalty method and then compare that to the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. As of November 30, 2012, we had $256.1 million of brand name assets and trademarks recorded in our balance sheet and none of the balances exceed their estimated fair values. We intend to continue to support our brand names.

Below is a table which outlines the book value of our major brand names and trademarks as of November 30, 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Taxes

We estimate income taxes and file tax returns in each of the taxing jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to file a tax return. At the end of each year, an estimate for income taxes is recorded in the financial statements. Tax returns are generally filed in the third or fourth quarter of the subsequent year. A reconciliation of the estimate to the final tax return is done at that time which will result in changes to the original estimate. We believe that our tax return positions are fully supported, but tax authorities may challenge certain positions. We evaluate our uncertain tax positions in accordance with the U.S. GAAP guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. We believe that our reserve for uncertain tax positions, including related interest, is adequate. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. Management has recorded valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In doing so, management has considered future taxable income and tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Both future taxable income and tax planning strategies include a number of estimates.

Pension and Postretirement Benefits

Pension and other postretirement plans’ costs require the use of assumptions for discount rates, investment returns, projected salary increases, mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. The actuarial assumptions used in our pension and postretirement benefit reporting are reviewed annually and compared with external benchmarks to ensure that they appropriately account for our future pension and postretirement benefit obligations. While we believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, differences between assumed and actual experience may affect our operating results. A 1% increase or decrease in the actuarial assumption for the discount rate would impact 2013 pension and postretirement benefit expense by approximately $20 million. A 1% increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would impact 2013 pension expense by approximately $8 million. In addition, see the preceding sections of MD&A and note 8 of the financial statements for a discussion of these assumptions and the effects on the financial statements.

Stock-Based Compensation

We estimate the fair value of our stock-based compensation using fair value pricing models which require the use of significant assumptions for expected volatility of stock, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. Our valuation methodology and significant assumptions used are disclosed in note 9 of the financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK