Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this Item 7.  

The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we analyze revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network.  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  

2009 Results  

 •    Safety – During 2009, we continued our positive, multi-year trend in safety performance by setting records in many of our safety metrics. The employee injury incident rate per 200,000 man-hours declined 12% from 2008 to its lowest level ever. Our continued focus on derailment prevention resulted in a 10% reduction in our incident rate in 2009, with associated costs declining 3%. With respect to public safety, we closed 353 grade crossings to reduce our exposure to incidents. We also continued installing video cameras on our road locomotives, which assist us in reviewing grade crossing incidents, and we now have camera-equipped locomotives in the lead position of over 95% of our road trains. During 2009, we had the lowest number of crossing incidents on record, and the rate of grade crossing incidents per million train miles decreased 11%. Also, we have implemented extensive trespass reduction programs, and trespasser incidents declined 28% during the year. These improvements reflect comprehensive efforts to enhance employee training, increase public education, make targeted capital investments, and eliminate or reduce safety risks.  

 •    Financial Performance – In 2009, we generated operating income of $3.4 billion despite economic conditions that significantly reduced demand for our services across almost all market sectors. While a 16% reduction in volume drove the 17% decrease in operating income, core pricing gains, improved productivity, and cost savings from demand-driven resource adjustments translated into an all-time record operating ratio of 76.0% for 2009, outpacing our previous record of 77.3% set in 2008. Net income of $1.9 billion declined from $2.3 billion in 2008, but resulted in earnings of $3.75 per diluted share for 2009, surpassed only by financial results in 2008.  

 •    Freight Revenues – Our freight revenues declined 22% year-over-year to $13.4 billion. Freight revenues and volumes for all six commodity groups decreased, reflecting adverse economic conditions. Overall, volume decreased 16% in 2009, with the largest declines in automotive and industrial products shipments. Lower fuel surcharges due to lower fuel prices also reduced freight revenues for the year, partially offset by core pricing gains. We continued to focus on improving the reinvestibility of our business and we have repriced approximately 85% of our business since 2004.  

 •    Network Operations – In 2009, we built upon operational improvements achieved during 2008 by significantly improving the fluidity and efficiency of our transportation network, setting records in numerous operational metrics, including velocity, average terminal dwell, freight car utilization and service delivery. Lower volume levels, network management initiatives, and efforts to improve asset utilization were key drivers of our operational improvement. We increased average train speed by 16% and improved car utilization by 8% with ongoing enhancements to our transportation plan and continued efforts to improve train processing at our terminals. In 2009, customer satisfaction improved to record levels, surpassing records established in 2008, an indication that our ongoing efforts to improve operations again translated into better customer service.  

24  

Table of Contents 

 •    Asset Utilization – In response to economic conditions and lower revenue in 2009, we implemented productivity initiatives to improve efficiency and reduce costs, in addition to adjusting our resources to reflect lower demand. Although varying throughout the year, our resource reductions included removing from service approximately 26% of our road locomotives and 18% of our freight car inventory by year end. We also reduced shift levels at most rail facilities and closed or significantly reduced operations in 30 of our 114 principal rail yards. These demand-driven resource adjustments and our productivity initiatives combined to reduce our workforce by 10%.  

 •    Fuel Prices – As the economy worsened during the third and fourth quarters of 2008, fuel prices dropped dramatically, reaching $33.87 per barrel in December 2008, a near five-year low. Throughout 2009, crude oil prices generally increased, ending the year around $80 per barrel. Overall, our average fuel price decreased by 44% in 2009, reducing operating expenses by $1.3 billion compared to 2008. We also reduced our consumption rate by 4% during the year, saving approximately 40 million gallons of fuel. The use of newer, more fuel efficient locomotives; increased use of distributed locomotive power; fuel conservation programs; and improved network operations and asset utilization all contributed to this improvement.  

 •    Free Cash Flow – Cash generated by operating activities totaled $3.2 billion, yielding free cash flow of $515 million in 2009. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities, less cash used in investing activities and dividends paid.  

Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K. We believe free cash flow is important in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without additional external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 Outlook  

 •    Safety – Operating a safe railroad benefits our employees, our customers, our shareholders, and the public. We will continue using a multi-faceted approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, quality control, and training, and by engaging our employees. We will continue implementing Total Safety Culture (TSC) throughout our operations. TSC is designed to establish, maintain, reinforce, and promote safe practices among co-workers. This process allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety. Reducing grade-crossing incidents is a critical aspect of our safety programs, and we will continue our efforts to maintain, upgrade, and close crossings; install video cameras on locomotives; and educate the public about crossing safety through our own programs, various industry programs, and other activities.  

 •    Transportation Plan – To build upon our success in recent years, we will continue evaluating traffic flows and network logistic patterns, which can be quite dynamic from year-to-year, to identify additional opportunities to simplify operations, remove network variability and improve network efficiency and asset utilization. We plan to adjust manpower and our locomotive and rail car fleets to  

25  

Table of Contents 

 meet customer needs and put us in a position to handle demand changes. We will also continue utilizing industrial engineering techniques to improve productivity.  

 •    Fuel Prices – Uncertainty about the economy makes fuel price projections difficult, and we could see volatile fuel prices during the year, as they are sensitive to global and U.S. domestic demand, refining capacity, geopolitical issues and events, weather conditions and other factors. To reduce the impact of fuel price on earnings, we will continue to seek recovery from our customers through our fuel surcharge programs and to expand our fuel conservation efforts.  

 •    Capital Plan – In 2010, we plan to make total capital investments of approximately $2.5 billion, including expenditures for PTC, which may be revised if business conditions or new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Plan.  

 •    Positive Train Control (PTC) – In response to a legislative mandate to implement PTC by the end of 2015, we expect to spend approximately $200 million during 2010 on the development of PTC. We currently estimate that PTC will cost us approximately $1.4 billion to implement by the end of 2015, in accordance with rules issued by the FRA. This includes costs for installing the new system along our tracks, upgrading locomotives to work with the new system, and adding digital data communication equipment so all the parts of the system can communicate with each other.  

 •    Financial Expectations – We remain cautious about economic conditions but expect volume to increase from 2009 levels. In addition, we anticipate continued pricing opportunities and further productivity improvements.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Operating Revenues  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Freight revenues are revenues generated by transporting freight or other materials from our six commodity groups. Freight revenues vary with volume (carloads) and average revenue per car (ARC). Changes in price, traffic mix and fuel surcharges drive ARC. We provide some of our customers with contractual incentives for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes or shipping to and from specific locations, which we record as a reduction to freight revenues based on the actual or projected future shipments. We recognize freight revenues on a percentage-of-completion basis as freight moves from origin to destination. We allocate freight revenues between reporting periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them.  

Other revenues include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenues, which we earn when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as switching or storage. We recognize other revenues as we perform services or meet contractual obligations.  

Freight revenues and volume levels for all six commodity groups decreased during 2009, reflecting continued economic weakness. We experienced the largest volume declines in automotive and industrial  

26  

Table of Contents 

 products shipments. Lower fuel surcharges due to lower fuel prices also reduced freight revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. ARC decreased 7% during the full year, driven by lower fuel cost recoveries, partially offset by core pricing gain of approximately 5%. Fuel cost recoveries include fuel surcharge revenue and the impact of resetting the base fuel price for certain traffic, which is described below in more detail.  

Freight revenues from five of the six commodity groups increased during 2008, with particularly strong growth from agricultural and energy shipments. While revenues generated from chemical and industrial products shipments grew in 2008 compared to 2007, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike reduced shipments of these commodities. Revenues generated from automotive shipments declined versus 2007. Greater fuel cost recoveries and core pricing improvement combined to increase ARC during 2008. The severe economic downturn during the fourth quarter compounded already declining volumes experienced during the first nine months of 2008 due to ongoing weakness in certain market sectors. As a result, we moved fewer intermodal, automotive, industrial products, and chemical shipments, which more than offset volume growth from agricultural and energy shipments.  

Our fuel surcharge programs (excluding index-based contract escalators that contain some provision for fuel) generated freight revenues of $605 million, $2.3 billion, and $1.5 billion in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Declines in both fuel prices and volume levels drove the lower fuel surcharge amounts in 2009. Fuel surcharge revenues are not comparable across years due to implementation of new mileage-based fuel surcharge programs. As disclosed in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the STB issued a decision limiting the manner in which U.S. railroads can calculate fuel surcharges on traffic regulated by the STB. In April 2007, we converted regulated traffic, which represents approximately 22% of our current revenue base, to mileage-based fuel surcharge programs. In addition, we continue to convert portions of our non-regulated traffic to mileage-based fuel surcharge programs. At the time of introduction, we also reset the base fuel price at which the new mileage-based fuel surcharges take effect. Resetting the fuel price at which the fuel surcharge begins, in conjunction with rebasing the affected transportation rate to include a portion of what had been in the fuel surcharge, did not materially change our freight revenue as higher base rates offset lower fuel surcharge revenue.  

In 2009, other revenues decreased from 2008 due primarily to lower revenues at our subsidiary that brokers intermodal and automotive services. Accessorial revenues also decreased in 2009 reflecting lower volume levels during the year.  

The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads, and ARC by commodity type:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

27  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Agricultural Products – Lower volume and fuel surcharges decreased agricultural freight revenue in 2009 versus 2008. Price improvements partially offset these declines. Lower demand in both export and domestic markets led to fewer shipments of corn and feed grains, down 11% in 2009 compared to 2008. Weaker worldwide demand also reduced export shipments of wheat and food grains in 2009 versus 2008. 

2009 Agricultural Revenue 

  Price improvements, fuel surcharges, and volume growth generated higher agricultural freight revenue in 2008 versus 2007. Strong global demand for grain and a weak dollar drove higher shipments of corn and feed grains and shipments of wheat and food grains for 2008. Shipments of ethanol, a grain product used as an alternative fuel and fuel additive, and its co-products (primarily livestock feed) also increased.    

28  

Table of Contents 

Automotive – Declines in shipments of finished vehicles and auto parts and lower fuel surcharges reduced freight revenue in 2009 compared to 2008. Vehicle shipments were down 35% and parts were down 24%. Core pricing gains partially offset these declines. These volume declines resulted from economic conditions that reduced sales and vehicle production. In addition, two major domestic automotive manufacturers declared bankruptcy in the second quarter of 2009, affecting production levels. Although the federal Car Allowance Rebate System (the “cash for clunkers” program) helped stimulate vehicle sales and shipments in the third quarter of 2009, production cuts and soft demand throughout the year more than offset the program’s benefits. 

Double-digit declines in shipments of both finished vehicles and auto parts drove freight revenue lower in 2008 compared to 2007.    

2009 Automotive Revenue 

Price improvements and fuel surcharges partially offset these lower volumes. The manufacturers experienced poor sales and reduced vehicle production during 2008 due to the recessionary economy, which in turn reduced shipments of finished vehicles and parts. In addition, a major parts supplier strike reduced volume levels compared to 2007. Shipments of finished vehicles decreased 23% in 2008 versus 2007. 

Chemicals – Reduced volume and fuel surcharges decreased freight revenue from chemical shipments in 2009 versus 2008. Pricing improvements partially offset these declines. Weak market conditions reduced shipments of industrial chemicals in 2009 compared to 2008, driving volume levels down 16%. High inventories, production curtailments, and delayed purchases combined to reduce fertilizer shipments by 29% in 2009. Additionally, business interruptions resulting from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike lowered volume levels in the third quarter of 2008, contributing to a more favorable year-over-year comparison. 

2009 Chemicals Revenue 

Price improvements and increased fuel surcharges drove higher revenue from chemicals shipments during 2008, which were partially offset by a decrease in volume levels compared to 2007. Weak market conditions and business interruptions in chemical producing areas resulting from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike all contributed to lower industrial chemicals shipments. Plastics shipments also declined in part due to the impact of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. 

29  

Table of Contents 

Energy – Lower volume and fuel surcharges reduced freight revenue from energy shipments in 2009 versus 2008. Price increases partially offset these declines. Shipments from the Southern Powder River Basin of Wyoming (SPRB) and the Colorado and Utah mines decreased 14% and 25%, respectively, in 2009 compared to 2008. Continued economic weakness and high coal inventories resulted in reduced demand at our utility customers, resulting in lower volumes. Production problems at the Colorado and Utah mines and the loss of SPRB customer contracts also contributed to the volume declines. 

2009 Energy Revenue 

Price increases, fuel surcharges, and higher volume produced revenue growth in 2008 versus 2007. Shipments from the SPRB were up 5% compared to 2007 despite mine flooding and network interruptions caused by extensive flooding in the Midwest in June of 2008. Conversely, shipments from the Colorado and Utah mines were down 4% in 2008 versus 2007, due to mine production problems. 

Industrial Products – Reduced volume and fuel surcharges resulted in lower freight revenue from industrial products shipments in 2009 versus 2008. Price improvements partially offset these declines. Weak demand and inventory reductions resulting from the economic downturn drove a 53% decline in steel shipments in 2009 compared to 2008. The continued weakness in the housing market reduced lumber shipments, while surplus production and overall market uncertainty resulted in lower paper and newsprint shipments in 2009 versus 2008. In addition, cement and stone shipments declined during the year due to high inventories and weak commercial and residential construction activity. 

2009 Industrial Products Revenue 

  Price improvements and fuel surcharges contributed to higher freight revenue in 2008 compared to 2007. Lower volume partially offset these increases. Continued softening of the housing market and weak market conditions resulted in lower lumber shipments. In addition, cement and stone shipments declined due to a weak overall residential and commercial construction market. Business interruptions resulting from   

  the hurricanes also reduced various construction-related shipments, primarily stone. Conversely, we shipped more steel in 2008 than in 2007 as the weak dollar increased the cost of steel imports during most of the year, creating a strong demand for domestic steel.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Intermodal – Decreased volumes and fuel surcharges reduced freight revenue from intermodal shipments in 2009 versus 2008. Volume from international traffic decreased 24% in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting economic conditions, continued weak imports from Asia, and diversions to non-UPRR served ports. Additionally, continued weakness in the domestic housing and automotive sectors translated into weak demand in large sectors of the international intermodal market, which also contributed to the volume decline. Conversely, domestic traffic increased 8% in 2009 compared to 2008. A new contract with Hub Group, Inc., which included additional shipments, was executed in the second quarter of 2009 and more than offset the impact of weak market conditions in the second half of 2009. 

2009 Intermodal Revenue 

  Price increases and fuel surcharges generated higher revenue in 2008, partially offset by lower volume levels. International traffic declined 11% in 2008, reflecting continued softening of imports from China and the loss of a customer contract. Notably, the peak intermodal shipping season, which usually starts in the third quarter, was particularly weak in 2008. Additionally, continued weakness in domestic housing and automotive sectors translated into weak demand in large sectors of the international intermodal market, which also contributed to lower volumes. Domestic traffic declined 3% in 2008 due to the loss of a customer contract and lower volumes from less-than-truckload shippers. Additionally, the flood-related embargo on traffic in the Midwest during the second quarter hindered intermodal volume levels in 2008.  

Mexico Business – Each of our commodity groups include revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Revenue from Mexico business decreased 26% in 2009 versus 2008 to $1.2 billion. Volume declined in five of our six commodity groups, down 19% in 2009, driven by 32% and 24% reductions in industrial products and automotive shipments, respectively. Conversely, energy shipments increased 9% in 2009 versus 2008, partially offsetting these declines.  

Revenue from Mexico business increased 13% to $1.6 billion in 2008 compared to 2007. Price improvements and fuel surcharges contributed to these increases, partially offset by a 4% decline in volume in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Operating Expenses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

31  

Table of Contents 

Operating expenses decreased $3.1 billion in 2009 versus 2008. Our fuel price per gallon declined 44% during the year, decreasing operating expenses by $1.3 billion compared to 2008. Cost savings from lower volume, productivity improvements, and better resource utilization also decreased operating expenses in 2009. In addition, lower casualty expense resulting primarily from improving trends in safety performance decreased operating expenses in the year. Conversely, wage and benefit inflation partially offset these reductions. 

2009 Operating Expenses 

  Operating expenses increased $987 million in 2008. Our fuel price per gallon rose 39% during the year, increasing operating expenses by $1.1 billion compared to 2007. Wage, benefit, and materials inflation, higher depreciation, and costs associated with the January Cascade mudslide and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike also increased expenses during the year. Cost savings from productivity improvements, better resource utilization, and lower volume helped offset these increases.    

Compensation and Benefits – Compensation and benefits include wages, payroll taxes, health and welfare costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs. Lower volume and productivity initiatives led to a 10% decline in our workforce in 2009 compared to 2008, saving $516 million during the year. Conversely, general wage and benefit inflation increased expenses, partially offsetting these savings.  

Productivity initiatives in all areas, combined with lower volume, led to a 4% decline in our workforce for 2008, saving $227 million compared to 2007. Conversely, general wage and benefit inflation and higher pension and postretirement benefits increased expenses in 2008, partially offsetting these reductions.  

Fuel – Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and heavy equipment. Lower diesel fuel prices, which averaged $1.75 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2009 compared to $3.15 per gallon in 2008, reduced expenses by $1.3 billion. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, decreased 17% in the year, lowering expenses by $664 million compared to 2008. Our fuel consumption rate improved 4% in 2009, resulting in $147 million of cost savings versus 2008. Newer, more fuel efficient locomotives reflecting locomotive acquisitions in recent years and the impact of a smaller fleet due to storage of some of our older locomotives; increased use of distributed locomotive power; our fuel conservation programs; and improved network operations all drove this improvement. Distributed locomotive power is the practice of distributing locomotives throughout a train rather than positioning all of them in the lead resulting in safer and more efficient train operations.  

Diesel fuel prices, which averaged $3.15 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2008 compared to $2.27 per gallon in 2007, increased expenses by $1.1 billion. A 4% improvement in our fuel consumption rate resulted in $136 million of cost savings due to the use of newer, more fuel efficient locomotives; our fuel conservation programs; improved network operations; and a shift in commodity mix, primarily due to growth in bulk shipments. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, decreased 3% in the year, lowering expenses by $101 million compared to 2007.  

Purchased Services and Materials – Purchased services and materials expense includes the costs of services purchased from outside contractors; materials used to maintain the Railroad’s lines, structures, and equipment; costs of operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and  

32  

Table of Contents 

 lodging for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers; leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and supplies. Contract services expense (including equipment maintenance) decreased $138 million in 2009 versus 2008 due to lower volume levels and a favorable year-over-year comparison due to expenses incurred in 2008 resulting from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. In addition, lower volume levels drove cost reductions of $55 million in transportation and lodging costs and $27 million in expenses associated with operating jointly owned facilities in 2009 versus 2008. We also performed fewer locomotive and freight car repairs as a result of lower volumes and having portions of these fleets stored, which reduced related materials expenses by $87 million in 2009 versus 2008. Clean-up and restoration expenses related to the Cascade mudslide in January, flooding in the Midwest in June, and the two September hurricanes also increased expenses in 2008, creating a favorable year-over-year comparison.  

In 2008, higher contract costs (including restoration costs related to the January Cascade mudslide, June Midwest flooding, and September hurricanes) increased expenses $40 million compared to 2007. Higher material costs for freight car wheel sets during the year and an increase in the number of wheel sets required to repair flood-damaged freight cars also contributed to higher materials expense in 2008. Conversely, rail scrap proceeds associated with our rail replacement program partially offset these increases for the year.  

Depreciation – The majority of depreciation relates to track structure, including rail, ties, and other track material. A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting higher capital spending in recent years, increased depreciation expense in 2009 versus 2008. Costs also increased $34 million in 2009 due to the restructuring of certain locomotive leases (see further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources – Financing Activities). Lower depreciation rates for rail and other track material partially offset the increases. The lower rates, which became effective January 1, 2009, resulted from longer asset lives as determined by service life studies and reduced track usage (based on lower gross ton-miles).  

A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting higher capital spending in recent years, increased depreciation expense in 2008 versus 2007.  

Equipment and Other Rents – Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad pays for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; other specialty equipment leases; and office and other rentals. Fewer shipments of industrial products and intermodal containers primarily contributed to the $85 million reduction in our short-term freight car rental expense in 2009 versus 2008. In addition, the restructuring of locomotive leases reduced lease expense by $52 million in 2009 compared to 2008 (see further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources – Financing Activities). Lower lease expense for freight cars, intermodal containers, and fleet vehicles also decreased costs in 2009 versus 2008.  

Fewer shipments of finished vehicles, industrial products and intermodal containers reduced our short term freight car rental expense by $62 million in 2008 compared to 2007. Lower lease expense for freight cars, intermodal containers, and locomotives also decreased costs. Conversely, lease expense for fleet vehicles increased costs in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Other – Other expenses include personal injury, freight and property damage, insurance, environmental, bad debt, state and local taxes, utilities, telephone and cellular, employee travel, computer software, and other general expenses. Other costs were lower in 2009 compared to 2008 driven by a reduction in personal injury expense (including asbestos-related claims). We completed actuarial studies of personal injury expenses in both the second and fourth quarters of 2009 and 2008 and annual reviews of asbestos-related claims in both years, which resulted in a net reduction of $55 million in casualty expense in 2009 versus 2008. The reduction reflects improvements in our safety experience and lower estimated costs to resolve claims. In addition, the year-over-year comparison was favorably impacted by $28 million due to  

33  

Table of Contents 

 an adverse development with respect to one claim in 2008 and favorable developments in three cases in 2009. Other costs were also lower in 2009 compared to 2008, driven by a decrease in expenses for freight and property damages, employee travel, and utilities. In addition, higher bad debt expense in 2008 due to the uncertain impact of the recessionary economy drove a favorable year-over-year comparison. Conversely, an additional expense of $30 million related to a transaction with Pacer International, Inc. and higher property taxes partially offset lower costs in 2009.  

Other costs were higher in 2008 compared to 2007 due to an increase in bad debts, state and local taxes, loss and damage expenses, utility costs, and other miscellaneous expenses totaling $122 million. Conversely, personal injury costs (including asbestos-related claims) were $8 million lower in 2008 compared to 2007. The reduction reflects improvements in our safety experience and lower estimated costs to resolve claims as indicated in the actuarial studies of our personal injury expense and annual reviews of asbestos-related claims in both 2008 and 2007. The year-over-year comparison also includes the negative impact of adverse development associated with one claim in 2008. In addition, environmental and toxic tort expenses were $7 million lower in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Non-Operating Items  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other Income – Other income increased $103 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to higher gains from real estate sales, which included the $116 million pre-tax gain from a land sale to the Regional Transportation District (RTD) in Colorado and lower interest expense on our sale of receivables program, resulting from lower interest rates and a lower outstanding balance. Reduced rental and licensing income and lower returns on cash investments, reflecting lower interest rates, partially offset these increases.  

Other income decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to lower gains from real estate sales and decreased returns on cash investments reflecting lower interest rates. Higher rental and licensing income and lower interest expense on our sale of receivables program partially offset the decreases.  

Interest Expense – Interest expense increased in 2009 versus 2008 due primarily to higher weighted-average debt levels. In 2009, the weighted-average debt level was $9.6 billion (including the restructuring of locomotive leases in May of 2009), compared to $8.3 billion in 2008. Our effective interest rate was 6.3% in 2009, compared to 6.1% in 2008.  

Interest expense increased in 2008 versus 2007 due to a higher weighted-average debt level of $8.3 billion, compared to $7.3 billion in 2007. A lower effective interest rate of 6.1% in 2008, compared to 6.6% in 2007, partially offset the effects of the higher weighted-average debt level.  

Income Taxes – Income taxes were lower in 2009 compared to 2008, driven by lower pre-tax income. Our effective tax rate for the year was 36.5% compared to 36.1% in 2008.  

Income taxes were higher in 2008 compared to 2007, driven by higher pre-tax income. Our effective tax rates were 36.1% and 38.4% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The lower effective tax rate in 2008 resulted from several reductions in tax expense related to federal audits and state tax law changes. In addition, the effective tax rate in 2007 was increased by Illinois legislation that increased deferred tax expense in the third quarter of 2007.  

34  

Table of Contents 

OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS  

We report key Railroad performance measures weekly to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), including carloads, average daily inventory of rail cars on our system, average train speed, and average terminal dwell time. We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investors/reports/index.shtml.  

Operating/Performance Statistics  

Included in the table below are Railroad performance measures reported to the AAR:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Average Train Speed – Average train speed is calculated by dividing train miles by hours operated on our main lines between terminals. Lower volume levels, ongoing network management initiatives, and productivity improvements contributed to 16% and 8% improvements in average train speed in 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Average Terminal Dwell Time – Average terminal dwell time is the average time that a rail car spends at our terminals. Lower average terminal dwell time improves asset utilization and service. Average terminal dwell time improved slightly in 2009 compared to 2008 and improved 1% in 2008 versus 2007. Lower volumes combined with initiatives to more timely deliver rail cars to our interchange partners and customers improved dwell time in both periods.  

Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles – Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of loaded and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles. Gross and revenue-ton-miles decreased 17% and 15% in 2009 compared to 2008 due to a 16% decrease in carloads. Commodity mix changes (notably automotive shipments, which were 30% lower in 2009 compared to 2008) drove the difference in declines between gross ton-miles and revenue ton-miles. Gross ton-miles decreased 3%, while revenue ton-miles were flat in 2008 compared to 2007 with commodity mix changes (notably autos and coal) explaining the variance in year over year growth between the two metrics.  

Operating Ratio – Operating ratio is defined as our operating expenses as a percentage of operating revenue. Our operating ratios improved 1.3 points to 76.0% in 2009 and 2.0 points to 77.3% in 2008. Core pricing gains, lower fuel prices, network management initiatives, and improved productivity drove the improvement in 2009 and more than offset the 16% volume decline. Price increases, fuel cost recoveries, network management initiatives, and improved productivity drove the improvement in 2008 and more than offset the impact of higher fuel prices.  

Employees – Productivity initiatives and lower volumes reduced employee levels 10% throughout the Company in 2009 versus 2008 and 4% in 2008 compared to 2007. Fewer train and engine personnel due  

35  

Table of Contents 

 to lower volumes and network initiatives, combined with improved productivity within the support organizations, contributed to the lower full-time equivalent force levels.  

Customer Satisfaction Index – Our customer satisfaction survey asks customers to rate how satisfied they are with our performance over the last 12 months on a variety of attributes. A higher score indicates higher customer satisfaction. The improvement in survey results in 2009 and 2008 generally reflects customer recognition of our improving service.  

Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of the Corporation’s long-term capital investments, and we currently use ROIC as a performance criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity. The tables above provide a reconciliation from return on average common shareholders’ equity to ROIC. Our 2009 ROIC decreased 2.0 points compared to 2008 primarily as a result of lower earnings and higher average debt and equity levels.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Debt to Capital / Adjusted Debt to Capital  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Adjusted debt to capital is a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the total amount of leverage in our capital structure, including off-balance sheet lease obligations, which we generally incur in connection with financing the acquisition of locomotives and freight cars and certain facilities. Operating leases were discounted using 6.3% at December 31, 2009 and 8.0% at December 31, 2008. The lower discount rate reflects changes to interest rates and our current financing costs. We monitor the ratio of adjusted debt to capital as we manage our capital structure to balance cost-effective and efficient access to the capital markets with the Corporation’s overall cost of capital. Adjusted debt to capital should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, debt to capital. The tables above provide a reconciliation from debt to capital to adjusted debt to capital. Our December 31, 2009 debt to capital ratios increased as a result of a $921 million net increase in debt from December 31, 2008. Equity at December 31, 2008, was reduced by $704 million for other comprehensive losses. Other comprehensive losses in 2008 were related primarily to pensions. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for more information.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

As of December 31, 2009, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, the sale of certain receivables, and our revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets. We had $1.9 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, with no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2009. We did not make any borrowings under this facility during 2009. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the sale of receivables program was $400 million as of December 31, 2009. The sale of receivables program is subject to certain requirements, including maintenance of an investment grade bond rating. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to utilize commercial paper as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is also dependent on our financial stability. We expect that we will continue to  

37  

Table of Contents 

 have access to liquidity by issuing bonds to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of the credit markets.  

At December 31, 2009, we had a working capital surplus of approximately $1.0 billion, which reflects our decision to maintain additional cash reserves to enhance liquidity in response to difficult economic conditions. At December 31, 2008, we had a working capital deficit of approximately $100 million. Historically, we have had a working capital deficit, which is common in our industry and does not indicate a lack of liquidity. We maintain adequate resources and, when necessary, have access to capital to meet any daily and short-term cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities  

Lower net income in 2009, a reduction of $184 million in the outstanding balance of our accounts receivable securitization program, higher pension contributions of $72 million, and changes to working capital combined to decrease cash provided by operating activities compared to 2008. Higher net income and changes in working capital combined to increase cash provided by operating activities in 2008 compared to 2007. In addition, accelerated tax deductions enacted in 2008 on certain new operating assets resulted in lower income tax payments in 2008 versus 2007. Voluntary pension contributions in 2008 totaling $200 million and other pension contributions of $8 million partially offset the year-over-year increase versus 2007.  

Investing Activities  

Lower capital investments and higher proceeds from asset sales drove the decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2009 versus 2008. Increased capital investments and lower proceeds from asset sales drove the increase in cash used in investing activities in 2008 compared to 2007.  

38  

Table of Contents 

The tables below detail cash capital investments and track statistics for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Capital Plan – In 2010, we expect our total capital investments to be approximately $2.5 billion, which may be revised if business conditions or new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. We expect approximately 73% of our 2010 capital investments will replace and improve existing capital assets. Major investment categories include replacing and improving track infrastructure; increasing network and terminal capacity; improving locomotives and freight cars; improving technology, including investing in PTC; and other capital projects. We expect to fund our 2010 cash capital investments through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, issuance of long-term debt, and cash on hand at December 31, 2009. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan, which we expect will enhance the long-term value of the Corporation for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) replace and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network efficiency by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.  

Financing Activities  

Cash used in financing activities decreased in 2009 versus 2008. During 2009 we did not repurchase any shares under our common stock repurchase program, compared to $1.6 billion of repurchases in 2008. Additionally, debt repayments were $337 million lower in 2009, partially offset by lower new debt issuances of $1.4 billion and higher dividend payments (we increased our dividend from $0.22 per share to its current level of $0.27 per share, effective in the third quarter of 2008). The restructuring of equipment leases also generated $87 million in cash consideration, further contributing to the decrease (see further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources – Financing Activities). Cash  

39  

Table of Contents 

 used in financing activities increased in 2008 versus 2007 due to higher debt repayments of $416 million, an increase of $234 million for the repurchase of common shares (see further discussion of common shares in Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Purchases of Equity Securities Part II, Item 5) and an increase of dividends paid, reflecting a higher quarterly dividend. Higher debt issuances of $676 million partially offset these increases.  

Credit Facilities – On December 31, 2009, we had $1.9 billion of credit available under our revolving credit facility (the facility). The facility is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2009. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon our senior unsecured debt ratings. The facility requires Union Pacific Corporation to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a borrowing. At December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008 (and at all times during these periods), we were in compliance with this covenant.  

The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes, among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2009, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $33.9 billion of debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $10.4 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors beyond our reasonable control (including the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report) could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $75 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision. The facility will expire in April 2012 in accordance with its terms, and we currently intend to replace the facility with a substantially similar credit agreement on or before the expiration date, which is consistent with our past practices with respect to our credit facilities.  

At December 31, 2009, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our commercial paper balance is supported by our revolving credit facility but does not reduce the amount of borrowings available under the facility. During 2009, we issued $100 million of commercial paper and repaid $200 million.  

At December 31, 2009, we reclassified as long-term debt approximately $320 million of debt due within one year that we intend to refinance. This reclassification reflected our ability and intent to refinance any short-term borrowings and certain current maturities of long-term debt on a long-term basis. At December 31, 2008, we reclassified as long-term debt approximately $400 million of debt due within one year that we intended to refinance at that time.  

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

For each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 4.9, 5.9, and 5.1, respectively. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a consolidated basis. Earnings represent income from continuing operations, less equity earnings net of distributions, plus fixed charges and income taxes. Fixed charges represent interest charges, amortization of debt discount, and the estimated amount representing the interest portion of rental charges. See Exhibit 12 to this report for the calculation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Common Shareholders’ Equity  

Dividend Restrictions – Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $11.7 billion and $10.5 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Stock Split – On May 28, 2008, we completed a two-for-one stock split, effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The stock split entitled all shareholders of record at the close of business on May 12, 2008, to receive one additional share of our common stock, par value $2.50 per share, for each share of common stock held on that date.  

Share Repurchase Program – On January 30, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 40 million shares of Union Pacific Corporation common stock through the end of 2009. On May 1, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 40 million common shares by March 31, 2011. Management’s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all repurchases. During 2009, we did not repurchase shares under this program. In 2008, we repurchased approximately 22 million shares at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. These shares were recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees. If we elect to make repurchases of our common stock under this program in 2010, we expect to fund such repurchases through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand.  

Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings – Under our current shelf registration statement, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings. In July 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the issuance of an additional $3 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration. At December 31, 2009, we had remaining authority to issue up to $2.25 billion of debt securities.  

During 2009, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The net proceeds from these offerings were for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions.  

We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time.  

During the second quarter of 2009, we restructured lease agreements for 813 locomotives resulting in a change in lease classification from operating to capital. As part of the restructuring arrangements, we received $87 million in cash consideration. We recorded capital lease assets of approximately $742 million and related capital lease obligations totaling approximately $843 million. Included in our capital lease obligations is the $87 million in cash consideration and $14 million of accrued operating lease  

41  

Table of Contents 

 payables that were reclassified as part of our capital lease obligations. Capital lease obligations are reported in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt.  

On October 15, 2009, we entered into a capital lease agreement for 44 locomotives with a total equipment cost of $100 million. The lessor purchased the 44 locomotives from the Corporation and subsequently leased the locomotives back to the Railroad. These capital lease obligations are reported in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt at December 31, 2009.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, and Commercial Commitments  

As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other similarly situated companies face with respect to the condition of the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report), there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry.  

The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  Excludes capital lease obligations of $2,061 million, unamortized discount of $(110) million, and market value adjustments of $15 million for debt with qualifying hedges that are recorded as liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Includes an interest component of $4,763 million.  

 [b]  Represents total obligations, including interest component of $914 million.  

 [c]  Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for ties, ballast, and rail; and agreements to purchase other goods and services. For amounts where we can not reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.  

 [d]  Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments and payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years. No amounts are included for funded pension as no contributions are currently required.  

 [e]  Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, as of December 31, 2009. Where we can reasonably estimate the years in which these liabilities may be settled, this is shown in the table. For amounts where we can not reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.  

42  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  None of the credit facility was used as of December 31, 2009.  

 [b]  $400 million of the sale of receivables program was utilized at December 31, 2009.  

 [c]  Includes guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations.  

 [d]  None of the letters of credit were drawn upon as of December 31, 2009.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Sale of Receivables – The Railroad transfers most of its accounts receivable to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a bankruptcy-remote subsidiary, as part of a sale of receivables facility. UPRI sells, without recourse on a 364-day revolving basis, an undivided interest in such accounts receivable to investors. The total capacity to sell undivided interests to investors under the facility was $600 million and $700 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the facility was $400 million and $584 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, UPRI reduced the outstanding undivided interest held by investors due to a decrease in available receivables. The value of the undivided interest held by investors is not included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The value of the undivided interest held by investors was supported by $817 million and $1,015 million of accounts receivable held by UPRI at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the value of the interest retained by UPRI was $417 million and $431 million, respectively. This retained interest is included in accounts receivable in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The interest sold to investors is sold at carrying value, which approximates fair value, and there is no gain or loss recognized from the transaction.  

The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors could fluctuate based upon the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by changing business volumes and credit risks, including default and dilution. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would not change as of December 31, 2009. Should our credit rating fall below investment grade, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would be reduced, and, in certain cases, the investors would have the right to discontinue the facility.  

The Railroad services the sold receivables; however, the Railroad does not recognize any servicing asset or liability, as the servicing fees adequately compensate us for these responsibilities. The Railroad collected approximately $13.8 billion and $17.8 billion during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. UPRI used certain of these proceeds to purchase new receivables under the facility.  

The costs of the sale of receivables program are included in other income and were $9 million, $23 million, and $35 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The costs include interest, which will vary based on prevailing commercial paper rates, program fees paid to banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees for unused commitment availability. The decrease in the 2009 costs was primarily attributable to lower commercial paper rates and a decrease in the outstanding interest held by investors.  

43  

Table of Contents 

The investors have no recourse to the Railroad’s other assets except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.  

In August 2009, the sale of receivables facility was renewed for an additional 364-day period at comparable terms and conditions, although the capacity to sell undivided interests was reduced from $700 million to $600 million.  

See further discussion in this Item 7 under Other Matters – Accounting Pronouncements for information about recent accounting pronouncements that will have an impact on the accounting treatment of our sale of receivables program.  

Guarantees – At December 31, 2009, we were contingently liable for $416 million in guarantees. We have recorded a liability of $3 million and $4 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.  

OTHER MATTERS  

Inflation – The cumulative effect of long periods of inflation significantly increases asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts.  

Derivative Financial Instruments – We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable price movements.  

Market and Credit Risk – We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.  

Determination of Fair Value – We determine the fair values of our derivative financial instrument positions based upon current fair values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows.  

Sensitivity Analyses – The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results.  

44  

Table of Contents 

At December 31, 2009, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 4% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2010 than our December 31, 2009 variable rate, which was approximately 2%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $4 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2009.  

Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2009, and amounts to an increase of approximately $774 million to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2009. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates.  

Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges – We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.  

Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt’s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method as allowed by the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC); therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges – We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income/loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had reductions of $3 million and $4 million, respectively, recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive income/loss that is being amortized on a straight-line basis through September 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.  

Accounting Pronouncements – In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-06, Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements. The Update provides amendments to FASB ASC 820-10 that require entities to disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and describe the reasons for the transfers. In addition the Update requires entities to present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). The disclosures related to Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements are effective for us in 2010 and the disclosures related to Level 3 fair value measurements are effective for us in 2011. The Update requires new disclosures only, and will have no impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets—an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 (FAS 166). FAS 166 limits the circumstances in which transferred financial assets can be derecognized and requires enhanced disclosures regarding transfers of financial assets and a transferor’s continuing involvement with transferred financial assets. In addition, the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity is no longer relevant for accounting purposes. Therefore, formerly qualifying special-purpose entities (as defined under previous accounting standards) should be evaluated for consolidation by reporting entities on and after the effective date in accordance with the applicable consolidation guidance. FAS 166 will be effective for us beginning in 2010. After adoption, transfers of undivided interests in accounts receivable to investors under our sale of receivables program will no longer qualify for sale treatment, but rather will be accounted for as secured borrowings  

45  

Table of Contents 

 in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. We are still evaluating the impact on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows related to the adoption of this standard. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under our sale of receivables program at December 31, 2009 was $400 million.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (FAS 167). FAS 167 retains the scope of Interpretation 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, with the addition of entities previously considered qualifying special-purpose entities, as the concept of these entities was eliminated in FASB Statement No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets—an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140. FAS 167 will be effective for us beginning in 2010. The adoption of FAS 167 will not affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards CodificationTM and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles—a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162 (FAS 168). The Codification became the source of authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities. Rules and interpretive releases of the SEC under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. On the effective date of FAS 168, the Codification superseded all then-existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards. All other nongrandfathered non-SEC accounting literature not included in the Codification became nonauthoritative. FAS 168 was effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The adoption of FAS 168 did not affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  

In May 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 165, Subsequent Events (FAS 165) (codified as FASB ASC 855-10-50). FAS 165 establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosures of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. It requires the disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events and the basis for that date. FAS 165 was effective for interim or annual financial periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of FAS 165 did not affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  

In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments (codified as FASB ASC 820-10-50). This FSP amends FASB Statement No. 107, to require disclosures about fair values of financial instruments for interim reporting periods as well as in annual financial statements. The FSP also amends APB Opinion No. 28 to require those disclosures in summarized financial information at interim reporting periods. This FSP was effective for interim reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of this FSP did not affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1, Employers’ Disclosure about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets (codified as FASB ASC 715-20-50), which amended Statement 132(R) to require more detailed disclosures about employers’ pension plan assets. New disclosures include more information on investment strategies, major categories of plan assets, concentrations of risk within plan assets and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets. This new standard required new disclosures only, and had no impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These new disclosures are included in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Change in Accounting Principle – We have historically accounted for rail grinding costs as a capital asset. Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, we will change our accounting policy for rail grinding costs from a capitalization method, under which we have capitalized the cost of rail grinding and depreciated such capitalized costs, to a direct expense method, under which we will expense rail grinding costs as incurred. The expense as incurred method is preferable, as it eliminates the subjectivity in determining  

46  

Table of Contents 

 the period of benefit associated with rail grinding over which to depreciate the associated capitalized costs. We will reflect this change as a change in accounting principle from an acceptable accounting principle to a preferable accounting principle. The application of this preferable accounting principle will be presented retrospectively to all periods presented in future earnings releases and SEC filings. When the accounting principle is retrospectively applied, net income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 will decrease by approximately $8 million, $3 million, and $7 million, or $0.01, $0.01 and $0.02 per share, respectively. This change in accounting principle is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  

Asserted and Unasserted Claims – Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.  

Indemnities – Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.  

Climate Change – Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.  

Personal Injury – The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use third-party actuaries to assist us in measuring the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Our personal injury liability is discounted to present value using applicable U.S. Treasury rates. Approximately 13% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims, and approximately 87% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2009. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $545 million to $602 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss is more probable than any other. Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Asbestos – We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. We engage a third party with extensive experience in estimating resolution costs for asbestos-related claims to assist us in assessing our potential liability. This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:  

   •    The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages.  

   •    The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.  

   •    The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.  

   •    The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 21% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 79% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2009. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $174 million to $189 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss is more probable than any other. In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2009, we also reassessed estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We believe that our estimates of liability for asbestos-related claims and insurance recoveries are reasonable and probable. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.  

Environmental – We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We identified 307 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 32 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 17 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.  

49  

Table of Contents 

When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we and our consultants perform environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and we can reasonably estimate such costs. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable. At December 31, 2009, approximately 12% of our environmental liability was discounted at 3.4%, while approximately 13% of our environmental liability was discounted at 3.5% at December 31, 2008. Our environmental liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.  

Property and Depreciation – Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers. Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards), which are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected life are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable asset classes,  

50  

Table of Contents 

 and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors.  

We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property by means of depreciation studies. We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors:  

   •    Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;  

   •    Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;  

   •    Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and  

   •    Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.  

For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition, (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in high density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. Rail in high-density traffic corridors accounts for approximately 70 percent of the historical cost of rail and other track material. Based on the number of gross ton-miles carried over our rail in high density traffic corridors during 2009, the estimated service lives of the majority of this rail ranged from 14 years to 30 years. For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.  

Estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset strategies, and other factors that will have an impact on the retirement profiles of our assets. We are not aware of any specific factors that are reasonably likely to significantly change the estimated service lives of our assets. Actual use and retirement of our assets may vary from our current estimates, which would impact the amount of depreciation expense recognized in future periods.  

Changes in estimated useful lives of our assets due to the results of our depreciation studies could significantly impact future periods’ depreciation expense and have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $43 million. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense would increase by approximately $46 million. Our recent depreciation studies have resulted in changes in depreciation rates for some asset classes, which did not significantly affect our annual depreciation expense.  

Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated useful life of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service  

51  

Table of Contents 

 lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate.  

For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) is unusual, (ii) is material in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. During the last three fiscal years, no gains or losses were recognized due to the retirement of depreciable railroad properties. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations.  

Income Taxes – We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future changes in tax laws are not anticipated. Future tax law changes, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For example, a 1% increase in future income tax rates would increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $280 million.  

When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management’s judgments using available evidence about future events. The valuation allowance at December 31, 2009 was $8 million. There was no valuation allowance at December 31, 2008.  

At times, we may claim tax benefits that may be challenged by a tax authority. We recognize tax benefits only for tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for “unrecognized tax benefits” is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.  

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits – We use third-party actuaries to assist us in properly measuring the liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and defined contribution medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses, we must make several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rate and healthcare cost trend rate.  

We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors:  

   •    Discount rate is based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency) for which the timing and amount of cash flows matches our plans’ expected benefit payments.  

   •    Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market conditions.  

   •    Healthcare cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.  

52  

Table of Contents 

The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure pension and OPEB expense for 2009 and the estimated impact on 2009 pension and OPEB expense relative to a change in those assumptions:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

CAUTIONARY INFORMATION  

Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements and information include, without limitation, (A) statements in the Chairman’s letter preceding Part I regarding future economic conditions, our ability to participate in future economic growth and create value for our shareholders, and future capital investments; statements regarding planned capital expenditures under the caption “2010 Capital Expenditures” in Item 2 of Part I; statements regarding dividends in Item 5 and statements; and information set forth under the captions “2010 Outlook” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this Item 7, and (B) any other statements or information in this report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to financial performance, revenue growth and cost savings; the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will be achieved; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions; expectations as to operational or service performance or improvements; expectations as to the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations and/or service, including capital expenditures for infrastructure improvements and equipment acquisitions, any strategic business acquisitions, and modifications to our transportation plans (including statements set forth in Item 2 as to expectations related to our planned capital expenditures); expectations as to existing or proposed new products and services; expectations as to the impact of any new regulatory activities or legislation on our operations or financial results; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,”  

53  

Table of Contents 

 “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words, phrases or expressions.  

Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements and information are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements and information. Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements or information. To the extent circumstances require or we deem it otherwise necessary, we will update or amend these risk factors in a Form 10-Q, Form 8-K or subsequent Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, these Risk Factors.  

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk