Part I  

 Item 1. Business Description  

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire,” “Company” or “Registrant”) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both a primary basis and a reinsurance basis, a freight rail transportation business and a group of utility and energy generation and distribution businesses. Berkshire also owns and operates a large number of other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as identified herein. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters are located in Omaha, Nebraska.  

Berkshire’s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire’s corporate headquarters in the day-to-day business activities of the operating businesses. Berkshire’s corporate senior management team participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses. It also is responsible for establishing and monitoring Berkshire’s corporate governance practices, including, but not limited to, communicating the appropriate “tone at the top” messages to its employees and associates, monitoring governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and participating in the resolution of governance-related issues as needed.  

Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries employ approximately 377,000 people worldwide.  

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses  

Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through numerous domestic and foreign-based insurance entities. Berkshire’s insurance businesses provide insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks and also reinsure life, accident and health risks worldwide.  

In direct or primary insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that other direct insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring activities.  

Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a portion of a specified group or class of risks ceded by the direct insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual underlying risks. Reinsurance contracts are further classified as quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums and losses of the direct insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the direct insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or “retention.” Both quota-share and excess reinsurance contracts may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.  

Insurance and reinsurance are generally subject to regulatory oversight throughout the world. Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, financial ratings, underwriting consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions.  

Insurers based in the United States (“U.S.”) are subject to regulation by their states of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed to write policies on an admitted basis. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise protected. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the authority to suspend or revoke a company’s authority to do business as conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders and other transactions with affiliates. Dividends, capital distributions and other transactions of extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory approval.  

Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states where they are licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and premium rates. Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable through admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as “excess and surplus” lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by the insured party’s direct procurement from non-admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates or reinsurance contracts.  

K-1   

Table of Contents 

The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements. However, an insurer’s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters. In addition to its activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, risk management, compliance with financial regulation standards and risk-based capital reporting requirements.  

Berkshire’s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels, which differentiates them from their competitors. Collectively, the combined statutory surplus of Berkshire’s U.S. based insurers was approximately $170 billion at December 31, 2017. Berkshire’s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AA+ by Standard & Poor’s and A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and claims paying ability.  

The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established within the Department of the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program (“Program”) for commercial property and casualty insurers by providing federal reinsurance of insured terrorism losses. The Program currently extends to December 31, 2020 through other Acts, most recently the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (the “2015 TRIA Reauthorization”). Hereinafter these Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying “acts of terrorism.” During 2018, coverage under TRIA will occur if the industry insured loss for certified events occurring during the calendar year exceeds $160 million. Under the 2015 TRIA Reauthorization, the level of insured losses for certified events occurring during the calendar year required to trigger coverage under TRIA will increase annually by $20 million per year until the level of insured losses required to trigger coverage reaches $200 million in 2020. To be eligible for federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this coverage and of the federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA participation. TRIA currently also excludes certain forms of direct insurance (such as personal and commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines). Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.  

During 2018, in the event of a certified act of terrorism, the federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) for 82% of their insured losses in excess of an insurance group’s deductible. Under the 2015 TRIA Reauthorization, the federal government’s reimbursement obligation will be reduced annually by 1% per year until the level of reimbursement is reduced to 80% in 2020. Under the Program, the deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines of business in the immediately preceding calendar year. The aggregate deductible in 2018 for Berkshire’s insurance group is expected to approximate $1.1 billion. There is also an aggregate limit of $100 billion on the amount of the federal government coverage for each TRIA year.  

Regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United States is subject to the laws and regulations of each country in which an insurer has operations or writes premiums. Some jurisdictions impose comprehensive regulatory requirements on insurance businesses, such as in the United Kingdom, where insurers are subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority and in Germany where insurers are subject to regulation by the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). Other jurisdictions may impose fewer requirements. In certain foreign countries, reinsurers are also required to be licensed by governmental authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification, suspension or revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of insurance liabilities and minimum capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory requirements may result in fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various jurisdictions.  

Berkshire’s insurance underwriting operations include the following groups: (1) GEICO, (2) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and (3) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Except for retroactive reinsurance and periodic payment annuity products that generate significant amounts of up-front premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over very long periods of time (creating “float,” see Investments section below), Berkshire expects to achieve a net underwriting profit over time and to reject inadequately priced risks. Underwriting profit is defined as earned premiums less associated incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting and policy acquisition expenses. Underwriting profit does not include investment income earned from investments. Berkshire’s insurance businesses employ approximately 47,000 people. Additional information related to each of Berkshire’s underwriting groups follows.  

GEICO—GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland and its insurance subsidiaries consist of: Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company, GEICO Casualty Company, GEICO Advantage Insurance Company, GEICO Choice Insurance Company, GEICO Secure Insurance Company, GEICO County Mutual Insurance Company and GEICO Marine Insurance Company. These companies primarily offer private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. In addition, GEICO insures motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles, boats and small commercial fleets and acts as an agent for other insurers who offer homeowners, renters, boat, life and identity  

K-2   

Table of Contents 

 management insurance to individuals who desire insurance coverages other than those offered by GEICO. GEICO markets its policies primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via the Internet or by telephone.  

The automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. Some insurance companies may exacerbate price competition by selling their products for a period of time at less than adequate rates. GEICO will not knowingly follow that strategy. GEICO competes for private passenger automobile insurance customers in the preferred, standard and non-standard risk markets with other companies that sell directly to the customer as well as with companies that use agency sales forces, including State Farm, Allstate (including Esurance), Progressive and USAA. As a result of an aggressive advertising campaign and competitive rates, voluntary policies-in-force have increased about 41% over the past five years. According to most recently published A.M. Best data for 2016, the five largest automobile insurers had a combined market share in 2016 of approximately 55%, with GEICO’s market share being second largest at approximately 11.9%. Since the publication of that data, management estimates that GEICO’s current market share has grown to approximately 12.8%. Seasonal variations in GEICO’s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary weather conditions or other factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.  

Private passenger auto insurance is strictly regulated by state insurance departments. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to differentiate their products. Competition for private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on price and level of customer service provided. GEICO’s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and value to its customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage and settle claims. The name and reputation of GEICO is a material asset and management protects it and other service marks through appropriate registrations.  

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group—Berkshire’s combined global reinsurance business, referred to as the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”), offers a wide range of coverages on property, casualty, life and health risks to insurers and reinsurers worldwide. Reinsurance business is written through National Indemnity Company (“NICO”), domiciled in Nebraska, its subsidiaries and various other insurance subsidiaries wholly owned by Berkshire (collectively, the “NICO Group”) and General Reinsurance Corporation (“GRC”), domiciled in Delaware, and its subsidiaries (collectively the “General Re Group”). BHRG’s underwriting operations in the U.S. are headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut and it also conducts business activities globally in 23 countries.  

The type and volume of business written is dependent on market conditions, including prevailing premium rates and coverage terms. The level of underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets as well as from the timing of particularly large reinsurance transactions.  

Property/casualty  

The NICO Group offers traditional property/casualty reinsurance on both an excess-of-loss and a quota-share basis, catastrophe excess-of-loss treaty and facultative reinsurance, and primary insurance on an excess-of-loss basis for large or unusual risks for clients worldwide. The NICO Group periodically participates in underwriting placements with major brokers in the London Market through Berkshire Hathaway Insurance International, Ltd., based in Great Britain. Business is written through intermediary brokers or directly with the insured or reinsured. NICO also occasionally writes retroactive reinsurance contracts, which cover past loss events arising from property and casualty contracts written by ceding insurers and reinsurers.  

The type and volume of business written by the NICO Group may vary significantly from period to period resulting from changes in perceived premium rate adequacy and from unique or large transactions. A significant portion of NICO Group’s annual reinsurance premium volume currently derives from a 10-year, 20% quota-share agreement with Insurance Australia Group Limited (“IAG”) that became effective July 1, 2015. IAG is a multi-line insurer in Australia, New Zealand and other Asia Pacific countries.  

The General Re Group conducts a global property and casualty reinsurance business. Contracts are written on both a quota-share and excess basis for multiple lines of business. Contracts are primarily in the form of treaties, and to a lesser degree, on a facultative basis.  

General Re Group’s business in North America is primarily conducted through GRC, which is licensed in the District of Columbia and all states, except Hawaii, where it is an accredited reinsurer. Operations in North America are conducted from its headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut and through 13 branch offices in the U.S. and Canada. Reinsurance activities are primarily marketed directly to clients without involving a broker or intermediary.  

K-3   

Table of Contents 

In North America, the General Re Group also includes General Star National Insurance Company, General Star Indemnity Company and Genesis Insurance Company, which underwrite a broad array of specialty and surplus lines and property, casualty and professional liability coverages through a select group of wholesale brokers, manage general underwriters and program administrators, and offer solutions for the unique needs of public entity, commercial and captive customers.  

General Re Group’s international reinsurance business is conducted on a direct basis through General Reinsurance AG (“GRAG”) and through several other subsidiaries and branches in 17 countries. International business is also written through brokers, primarily via Faraday, a wholly-owned subsidiary. Faraday owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd’s and provides capacity and participates in 100% of the results of Syndicate 435.  

Retroactive reinsurance  

Retroactive reinsurance contracts indemnify ceding companies against the adverse development of claims arising from loss events that have already occurred under property and casualty policies issued in prior years. Coverages under such contracts are provided on an excess basis (above a stated retention) or for losses payable immediately after the inception of the contract. Contracts are normally subject to aggregate limits of indemnification and are occasionally exceptionally large in amount. Significant amounts of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims may arise under these contracts.  

For instance, in January 2017, NICO entered into a retroactive reinsurance agreement with various subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc. (collectively, “AIG”). Under the agreement, NICO agreed to indemnify AIG for 80% of up to $25 billion in excess of $25 billion retained by AIG, of losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses with respect to certain commercial insurance loss events occurring in years prior to 2016.  

In 2014, NICO entered into a reinsurance contract with Liberty Mutual Insurance Company (“LMIC”). Under the agreement, NICO reinsures substantially all of LMIC’s unpaid losses and allocated loss adjustment expense liabilities related to (a) asbestos and environmental claims from policies incepting prior to January 1, 2005, and (b) workers’ compensation claims occurrences arising prior to January 1, 2014, subject to an aggregate retention of approximately $12.5 billion and subject to an aggregate limit of $6.5 billion.  

The concept of time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing retroactive reinsurance contract prices and terms, since the payment of losses are often expected to occur over decades. Expected ultimate losses payable under these policies are normally expected to exceed premiums, thus producing underwriting losses. This business is accepted, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment results in future periods.  

Life/health  

The General Re Group also conducts a global life and health reinsurance business. In the U.S. and internationally, the General Re Group writes life, disability, supplemental health, critical illness and long-term care coverages. The life/health business is marketed on a direct basis. In 2017, approximately 33% of life/health net premiums were written in the United States, 23% in Western Europe and the remaining 44% throughout the rest of the world.  

Additionally, Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska (“BHLN”), a subsidiary of NICO, writes reinsurance covering various forms of traditional life insurance exposures. BHLN and its affiliates have also periodically reinsured certain guaranteed minimum death, income, and similar benefit coverages on closed-blocks of variable annuity reinsurance contracts.  

Periodic payment annuity  

BHLN writes periodic payment annuity insurance policies and reinsures existing annuity-like obligations. Under these policies, BHLN receives upfront premiums and agrees in the future to make periodic payments that often extend for decades. These policies, generally relate to the settlement of underlying personal injury or workers’ compensation cases of other insurers, and are known as structured settlements. Similar to retroactive reinsurance contracts, time-value-of-money concepts are an important factor in establishing such premiums and underwriting losses are expected from the periodic accretion of time-value discounted liabilities.  

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group—The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group (“BH Primary”) is a collection of independently managed primary insurers that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to policyholders located principally in the United States. These various operations are discussed below.  

NICO and certain affiliates (“NICO Primary”) underwrite motor vehicle and general liability insurance to commercial enterprises on both an admitted and excess and surplus basis. This business is written nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.  

K-4   

Table of Contents 

The “Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies” (“BHHC”) is a group of insurers offering workers’ compensation, commercial auto and commercial property coverages. BHHC has developed a national reach, with the ability to provide first-dollar and small to large deductible workers’ compensation coverage to employers in all states, except those where coverage is available only through state-operated workers’ compensation funds. BHHC serves a diverse client base. The BHHC business is generated primarily through independent agents and brokers.  

Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (“BH Specialty”) was formed in April 2013. BH Specialty provides primary and excess commercial property, casualty, healthcare professional liability, executive and professional lines, surety and travel insurance and other insurance. BH Specialty writes business on both an excess and surplus lines basis and an admitted basis in the U.S., and on a locally admitted basis outside the U.S. BH Specialty is based in Boston, Massachusetts, with regional offices currently in several cities in the U.S. and international offices in Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Canada, Germany, United Kingdom and Macau. BH Specialty currently intends to further expand its operations. BH Specialty writes business through wholesale and retail insurance brokers, as well as managing general agents.  

MedPro Group (“MedPro”) is a national leader in offering customized healthcare liability insurance, claims, patient safety and risk solutions to physicians, surgeons, dentists and other healthcare professionals, as well as hospitals, senior care and other healthcare facilities. MedPro has provided insurance coverage to protect healthcare providers against losses since 1899. Its insurance policies are distributed primarily through a nationwide network of appointed agents and brokers. MedPro recently began offering coverage options to healthcare providers in the United Kingdom, France and Singapore, as well as insurance and reinsurance options related to student health insurance programs.  

U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”) and its subsidiaries are specialty insurers that underwrite commercial, professional and personal lines insurance on an admitted and excess and surplus basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through wholesale and retail insurance agents. USIC companies also underwrite and market a wide variety of specialty insurance products.  

Applied Underwriters, Inc. (“Applied”) is a provider of payroll and insurance services to small and mid-sized employers. Applied, through its subsidiaries principally markets a product that bundles workers’ compensation and other employment related insurance coverages and business services into a seamless package that is designed to remove the burden of administrative and regulatory requirements faced by small to mid-sized employers.  

The Berkshire Hathaway GUARD Insurance Companies provide commercial property and casualty insurance coverage to small and mid-sized businesses and are based in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Policies are offered through independent agents. Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha, based in Omaha, Nebraska, primarily writes Medicare Supplement insurance and credit insurance.  

Investments of insurance businesses—Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries hold significant levels of invested assets. Invested assets derive from shareholder capital as well as funds provided from policyholders through insurance and reinsurance business (“float”). Float is the approximate amount of net policyholder funds generated through underwriting activities that is available for investment. The major components of float are unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, life, annuity and health benefit liabilities, unearned premiums and other policyholder liabilities less premium and reinsurance receivables, deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred charges on reinsurance contracts. On a consolidated basis, float has grown from approximately $70 billion at the end of 2011 to approximately $114 billion at the end of 2017, primarily through internal growth. From 2013 through 2016, Berkshire’s cost of float was negative, as its insurance businesses produced net underwriting gains. The cost of average float was approximately 3% in 2017, primarily attributable to sizable catastrophe losses and foreign currency exchange rate losses relating to non-U.S. Dollar denominated reinsurance liabilities.  

Investments of insurance subsidiaries include a very large portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities, which are concentrated in relatively few issuers, as well as fixed maturity securities and cash and short-term investments. Investment portfolios are primarily managed by Berkshire’s corporate senior management group. Generally, there are no targeted allocations by investment type or attempts to match investment asset and insurance liability durations. However, investment portfolios have historically included a much greater proportion of equity securities than is customary in the insurance industry.  

Railroad Business—Burlington Northern Santa Fe  

Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC (“BNSF”) is based in Fort Worth, Texas, and through BNSF Railway Company operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America. BNSF had approximately 41,000 employees at the end of 2017.  

K-5   

Table of Contents 

In serving the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, Western, Southwestern and Southeastern regions and ports of the United States, BNSF transports a range of products and commodities derived from manufacturing, agricultural and natural resource industries. Over half of freight revenues are covered by contractual agreements of varying durations, while the balance is subject to common carrier published prices or quotations offered by BNSF. BNSF’s financial performance is influenced by, among other things, general and industry economic conditions at the international, national and regional levels. BNSF’s primary routes, including trackage rights, allow it to access major cities and ports in the western and southern United States as well as parts of Canada and Mexico. In addition to major cities and ports, BNSF efficiently serves many smaller markets by working closely with approximately 200 shortline railroads. BNSF has also entered into marketing agreements with other rail carriers, expanding the marketing reach for each railroad and their customers. For the year ending December 31, 2017, approximately 35% of freight revenues were derived from consumer products, 25% from industrial products, 21% from agricultural products and 19% from coal.  

Regulatory Matters  

BNSF is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations generally applicable to all of its businesses. Rail operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”) of the United States Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies and Canadian regulatory agencies for operations in Canada. The STB has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line extensions and construction, and the merger with or acquisition of control of rail common carriers. The outcome of STB proceedings can affect the profitability of BNSF’s business.  

The DOT and OSHA have jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a number of safety and health aspects of rail operations, including the transportation of hazardous materials. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law. BNSF Railway is required to transport these materials to the extent of its common carrier obligation.  

Environmental Matters  

BNSF’s rail operations, as well as those of its competitors, are also subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulation covering discharges to water, air emissions, toxic substances and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. Such regulations effectively increase the costs and liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.  

Many of BNSF’s land holdings are or were used for industrial or transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. As a result, BNSF is subject to, and will from time to time continue to be subject to, environmental cleanup and enforcement actions. In particular, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the Superfund law, generally imposes joint and several liabilities for the cleanup and enforcement costs on current and former owners and operators of a site, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. Accordingly, BNSF may be responsible under CERCLA and other federal and state statutes for all or part of the costs to clean up sites at which certain substances may have been released by BNSF, its current lessees, former owners or lessees of properties, or other third parties. BNSF may also be subject to claims by third parties for investigation, cleanup, restoration or other environmental costs under environmental statutes or common law with respect to properties they own that have been impacted by BNSF operations.  

Competition  

The business environment in which BNSF operates is highly competitive. Depending on the specific market, deregulated motor carriers and other railroads, as well as river barges, ships and pipelines in certain markets, may exert pressure on price and service levels. The presence of advanced, high service truck lines with expedited delivery, subsidized infrastructure and minimal empty mileage continues to affect the market for non-bulk, time-sensitive freight. The potential expansion of longer combination vehicles could further encroach upon markets traditionally served by railroads. In order to remain competitive, BNSF and other railroads seek to develop and implement operating efficiencies to improve productivity.  

As railroads streamline, rationalize and otherwise enhance their franchises, competition among rail carriers intensifies. BNSF’s primary rail competitor in the Western region of the United States is the Union Pacific Railroad Company. Other Class I railroads and numerous regional railroads and motor carriers also operate in parts of the same territories served by BNSF. Based on weekly reporting by the Association of American Railroads, BNSF’s share of the western United States rail traffic in 2017 was approximately 50.9%.  

K-6   

Table of Contents 

Utilities and Energy Businesses—Berkshire Hathaway Energy  

Berkshire currently owns 90.2% of the outstanding common stock of Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company (“BHE”). BHE is a global energy company with subsidiaries that generate, transmit, store, distribute and supply energy. BHE’s locally managed businesses are organized as separate operating units. BHE’s domestic regulated energy interests are comprised of four regulated utility companies serving approximately 4.9 million retail customers, two interstate natural gas pipeline companies with approximately 16,400 miles of pipeline and a design capacity of approximately 8.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day and ownership interests in electricity transmission businesses. BHE’s Great Britain electricity distribution subsidiaries serve about 3.9 million electricity end-users and its electricity transmission-only business in Alberta, Canada serves approximately 85% of Alberta, Canada’s population. BHE’s interests also include a diversified portfolio of independent power projects, the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States, and one of the largest residential real estate brokerage franchise networks in the United States. BHE employs approximately 23,000 people in connection with its various operations.  

General Matters  

PacifiCorp is a regulated electric utility company headquartered in Oregon, serving electric customers in portions of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. The combined service territory’s diverse regional economy ranges from rural, agricultural and mining areas to urban, manufacturing and government service centers. No single segment of the economy dominates the combined service territory, which helps mitigate PacifiCorp’s exposure to economic fluctuations. In addition to retail sales (electricity sold to end-use customers), PacifiCorp sells electricity on a wholesale basis to other electricity retailers and wholesalers.  

MidAmerican Energy Company (“MEC”) is a regulated electric and natural gas utility company headquartered in Iowa, serving electric and natural gas customers primarily in Iowa and also in portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska. MEC has a diverse retail customer base consisting of urban and rural residential customers and a variety of commercial and industrial customers. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, MEC sells electricity principally to markets operated by regional transmission organizations and natural gas on a wholesale basis.  

NV Energy, Inc. (“NV Energy”), acquired by BHE on December 19, 2013, is an energy holding company headquartered in Nevada, primarily consisting of two regulated utility subsidiaries, Nevada Power Company (“Nevada Power”) and Sierra Pacific Power Company (“Sierra Pacific”) (collectively, the “Nevada Utilities”). Nevada Power serves retail electric customers in southern Nevada and Sierra Pacific serves retail electric and natural gas customers in northern Nevada. The Nevada Utilities’ combined service territory’s economy includes gaming, mining, recreation, warehousing, manufacturing and governmental services. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, the Nevada Utilities sell electricity and natural gas on a wholesale basis.  

As vertically integrated utilities, BHE’s domestic utilities own approximately 27,500 net megawatts of generation capacity in operation and under construction. There are seasonal variations in these businesses that are principally related to the use of electricity for air conditioning and natural gas for heating. Typically, regulated electric revenues are higher in the summer months, while regulated natural gas revenues are higher in the winter months.  

The Great Britain distribution companies consist of Northern Powergrid (Northeast) Limited and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc, which own a substantial electricity distribution network that delivers electricity to end-users in northeast England in an area covering approximately 10,000 square miles. The distribution companies primarily charge supply companies regulated tariffs for the use of their distribution systems.  

BHE acquired AltaLink L.P. (“AltaLink”) on December 1, 2014. AltaLink is a regulated electric transmission-only utility company headquartered in Calgary, Alberta. AltaLink connects generation plants to major load centers, cities and large industrial plants throughout its 87,000 square mile service territory.  

The natural gas pipelines consist of Northern Natural Gas Company (“Northern Natural”) and Kern River Gas Transmission Company (“Kern River”). Northern Natural, based in Nebraska, owns the largest interstate natural gas pipeline system in the United States, as measured by pipeline miles, reaching from west Texas to Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. Northern Natural’s pipeline system consists of approximately 14,700 miles of natural gas pipelines. Northern Natural’s extensive pipeline system, which is interconnected with many interstate and intrastate pipelines in the national grid system, has access to supplies from multiple major supply basins and provides transportation services to utilities and numerous other customers. Northern Natural also operates three underground natural gas storage facilities and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units. Northern Natural’s pipeline system experiences significant seasonal swings in demand and revenue, with the highest demand typically occurring during the months of November through March.  

K-7   

Table of Contents 

Kern River, based in Utah, owns an interstate natural gas pipeline system that consists of approximately 1,700 miles and extends from supply areas in the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California. Kern River transports natural gas for electric and natural gas distribution utilities, major oil and natural gas companies or affiliates of such companies, electric generating companies, energy marketing and trading companies, and financial institutions.  

BHE Renewables is based in Iowa and owns interests in independent power projects having approximately 4,300 net megawatts of generation capacity that are in service or under construction in California, Illinois, Texas, Nebraska, New York, Arizona, Minnesota, Kansas, Hawaii and the Philippines. These independent power projects sell power generated primarily from solar, wind, geothermal and hydro sources under long-term contracts. Additionally, BHE Renewables has invested approximately $1 billion in seven wind projects sponsored by third parties, commonly referred to as tax equity investments.  

Regulatory Matters  

PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) is an independent agency with broad authority to implement provisions of the Federal Power Act, the Natural Gas Act, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other federal statutes. The FERC regulates rates for wholesale sales of electricity; transmission of electricity, including pricing and regional planning for the expansion of transmission systems; electric system reliability; utility holding companies; accounting and records retention; securities issuances; construction and operation of hydroelectric facilities; and other matters. The FERC also has the enforcement authority to assess civil penalties of up to $1.2 million per day per violation of rules, regulations and orders issued under the Federal Power Act. MEC is also subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect to its 25% ownership of the Quad Cities Nuclear Station.  

With certain limited exceptions, BHE’s domestic utilities have an exclusive right to serve retail customers within their service territories and, in turn, have an obligation to provide service to those customers. In some jurisdictions, certain classes of customers may choose to purchase all or a portion of their energy from alternative energy suppliers, and in some jurisdictions retail customers can generate all or a portion of their own energy. Historically, state regulatory commissions have established retail electric and natural gas rates on a cost-of-service basis, which are designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover what each state regulatory commission deems to be the utility’s reasonable costs of providing services, including a fair opportunity to earn a reasonable return on its investments based on its cost of debt and equity. The retail electric rates of PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are generally based on the cost of providing traditional bundled services, including generation, transmission and distribution services.  

Northern Powergrid (Northeast) and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) each charge fees for the use of their distribution systems that are controlled by a formula prescribed by the British electricity regulatory body, the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority. The current eight-year price control period runs from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2023.  

AltaLink is regulated by the Alberta Utilities Commission (“AUC”), pursuant to the Electric Utilities Act (Alberta), the Public Utilities Act (Alberta), the Alberta Utilities Commission Act (Alberta) and the Hydro and Electric Energy Act (Alberta). The AUC is an independent quasi-judicial agency with broad authority that may impact many of AltaLink’s activities, including its tariffs, rates, construction, operations and financing. Under the Electric Utilities Act, AltaLink prepares and files applications with the AUC for approval of tariffs to be paid by the Alberta Electric System Operator (“AESO”) for the use of its transmission facilities, and the terms and conditions governing the use of those facilities. The AESO is the independent system operator in Alberta, Canada that oversees Alberta’s integrated electrical system (“AIES”) and wholesale electricity market. The AESO is responsible for directing the safe, reliable and economic operation of the AIES, including long-term transmission system planning.  

The natural gas pipelines are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The natural gas pipeline and storage operations of Northern Natural and Kern River are regulated by the FERC pursuant to the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. Under this authority, the FERC regulates, among other items, (a) rates, charges, terms and conditions of service and (b) the construction and operation of interstate pipelines, storage and related facilities, including the extension, expansion or abandonment of such facilities. Interstate natural gas pipeline companies are also subject to regulations administered by the Office of Pipeline Safety within the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, an agency within the DOT. Federal pipeline safety regulations are issued pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, which establishes safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas pipeline facilities.  

K-8   

Table of Contents 

Environmental Matters  

BHE and its energy businesses are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding air and water quality, renewable portfolio standards, emissions performance standards, climate change, coal combustion byproduct disposal, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters that have the potential to impact current and future operations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations, such as the Federal Clean Air Act, provide regulators with the authority to levy substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.  

The Federal Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, provides a framework for protecting and improving the nation’s air quality and controlling sources of air emissions. These laws and regulations continue to be promulgated and implemented and will impact the operation of BHE’s generating facilities and require them to reduce emissions at those facilities to comply with the requirements.  

Renewable portfolio standards have been established by certain state governments and generally require electricity providers to obtain a minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy resources by a certain date. Utah, Oregon, Washington, California, Iowa and Nevada have adopted renewable portfolio standards. In addition, the potential adoption of state or federal clean energy standards, which include low-carbon, non-carbon and renewable electricity generating resources, may also impact electricity generators and natural gas providers.  

In December 2015, an international agreement was negotiated by 195 nations to create a universal framework for coordinated action on climate change in what is referred to as the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement reaffirms the goal of limiting global temperature increase well below 2 degrees Celsius, while urging efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius; establishes commitments by all parties to make nationally determined contributions and pursue domestic measures aimed at achieving the commitments; commits all countries to submit emissions inventories and report regularly on their emissions and progress made in implementing and achieving their nationally determined commitments; and commits all countries to submit new commitments every five years, with the expectation that the commitments will get more aggressive. In the context of the Paris Agreement, the United States agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 26% to 28% by 2025 from 2005 levels. The Paris Agreement formally entered into force November 4, 2016.  

Supporting the United States’ commitment under the Paris Agreement was the Clean Power Plan, which was finalized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) in August 2015. The Clean Power Plan established the Best System of Emission Reduction for fossil-fueled power plants to include: (a) heat rate improvements; (b) increased utilization of existing combined-cycle natural gas-fueled generating facilities; and (c) increased deployment of new and incremental non-carbon generation placed in service after 2012. The final Clean Power Plan compliance obligations were scheduled to begin in 2022, and extend through 2030, when fully implemented, the rule was intended to achieve an overall reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from existing fossil-fueled electric generating units of 32% below 2005 levels.  

On June 1, 2017, President Trump announced that the United States would begin the process of withdrawing from the Paris Agreement. Under the terms of the Paris Agreement, withdrawal cannot occur until four years after entry into force, making the United States withdrawal effective in November 2020. The EPA issued a proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan on October 10, 2017, which has not yet been finalized. On December 28, 2017, the EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding the Clean Power Plan to solicit comment from the public as the agency considers proposing a future rule establishing emission guidelines for greenhouse gas emissions from existing electric generating units. The full impacts of the EPA’s recent efforts to repeal the Clean Power Plan are not expected to have a material impact on BHE and its energy subsidiaries. Increasingly, states are adopting legislation and regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and local governments and consumers are seeking increasing amounts of clean and renewable energy.  

BHE and its energy subsidiaries continue to focus on delivering reliable, affordable, safe and clean energy to its customers and on actions to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. For example, as of December 31, 2017, BHE has invested $21 billion in solar, wind, geothermal and biomass generation.  

Non-Energy Businesses  

HomeServices of America, Inc. (“HomeServices”) is the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States. In addition to providing traditional residential real estate brokerage services, HomeServices offers other integrated real estate services, including mortgage originations and mortgage banking, title and closing services, property and casualty insurance, home warranties, relocation services and other home-related services. It operates under 42 brand names with nearly 41,000 real estate agents in nearly 840 brokerage offices in 30 states and the District of Columbia.  

K-9   

Table of Contents 

In October 2012, HomeServices acquired a 66.7% interest in one of the largest residential real estate brokerage franchise networks in the United States, which offers and sells independently owned and operated residential real estate brokerage franchises. HomeServices’ franchise network currently includes over 365 franchisees in over 1,500 brokerage offices in 47 states with over 48,000 real estate agents under three brand names. In exchange for certain fees, HomeServices provides the right to use the Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices, Prudential or Real Living brand names and other related service marks, as well as providing orientation programs, training and consultation services, advertising programs and other services.  

HomeServices’ principal sources of revenue are dependent on residential real estate sales, which are generally higher in the second and third quarters of each year. This business is highly competitive and subject to the general real estate market conditions.  

Manufacturing Businesses  

Berkshire’s numerous and diverse manufacturing businesses are grouped into three categories: (1) industrial products, (2) building products and (3) consumer products. Berkshire’s industrial products businesses manufacture specialty chemicals, metal cutting tools, components for aerospace and power generation applications and a variety of other products primarily for industrial use. The building products group produces flooring products, insulation, roofing and engineered products, building and engineered components, paint and coatings and bricks and masonry products that are primarily used in building and construction applications. The consumer products group manufactures recreational vehicles, alkaline batteries, various apparel products, jewelry and custom picture framing products. Information concerning the major activities of these three groups follows.  

Industrial products  

Lubrizol Corporation  

The Lubrizol Corporation (“Lubrizol”) is a specialty chemical company that produces and supplies technologies for the global transportation, industrial and consumer markets. Lubrizol currently operates in two business sectors: (1) Lubrizol Additives, which includes engine additives, driveline additives and industrial specialties products; and (2) Lubrizol Advanced Materials, which includes personal and home care, engineered polymers, performance coatings and life science solutions.  

Lubrizol Additives products are used in a broad range of applications including engine oils, transmission fluids, gear oils, specialty driveline lubricants, fuel additives, metalworking fluids, compressor lubricants and greases for transportation and industrial applications. Lubrizol’s Advanced Materials products are used in several different types of applications including over-the-counter pharmaceutical products, performance coatings, personal care products, sporting goods and plumbing and fire sprinkler systems. Lubrizol is an industry leader in many of the markets in which it competes. Lubrizol’s principal lubricant additives competitors are Infineum International Ltd., Chevron Oronite Company and Afton Chemical Corporation. The advanced materials industry is highly fragmented with a variety of competitors in each product line.  

From a base of approximately 3,200 patents, Lubrizol uses its technological leadership position in product development and formulation expertise to improve the quality, value and performance of its products, as well as to help minimize the environmental impact of those products. Lubrizol uses many specialty and commodity chemical raw materials in its manufacturing processes and uses base oil in processing and blending additives. Raw materials are primarily feedstocks derived from petroleum and petrochemicals and, generally, are obtainable from several sources. The materials that Lubrizol chooses to purchase from a single source typically are subject to long-term supply contracts to ensure supply reliability. Lubrizol operates facilities in 31 countries (including production facilities in 17 countries and laboratories in 14 countries).  

Lubrizol markets its products worldwide through a direct sales organization and sales agents and distributors. Lubrizol’s customers principally consist of major global and regional oil companies and industrial and consumer products companies that are located in more than 120 countries. Some of its largest customers also may be suppliers. In 2017, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of Lubrizol’s consolidated revenues. Lubrizol continues to implement a multi-year phased investment plan to upgrade operations, ensure compliance with health, safety and environmental requirements and increase global manufacturing capacity.  

Lubrizol is subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws to protect the environment and limit manufacturing waste and emissions. The company believes that its policies, practices and procedures are designed to limit the risk of environmental damage and consequent financial liability. Nevertheless, the operation of manufacturing plants entails ongoing environmental risks, and significant costs or liabilities could be incurred in the future.  

K-10   

Table of Contents 

IMC International Metalworking Companies  

IMC International Metalworking Companies (“IMC”) is one of the world’s three largest multinational manufacturers of consumable precision carbide metal cutting tools for applications in a broad range of industrial end markets. IMC’s principal brand names include ISCAR®, TaeguTec®, Ingersoll®, Tungaloy®, Unitac®, UOP®, It.te.di®, Tool—Flo® and Outiltec®. IMC’s principal manufacturing facilities are located in Israel, United States, Germany, Italy, France, Switzerland, South Korea, China, India, Japan and Brazil.  

IMC has five primary product lines: milling tools, gripping tools, turning/thread tools, drilling tools and tooling. The main products are split within each product line between consumable cemented tungsten carbide inserts and steel tool holders. Inserts comprise the vast majority of sales and earnings. Metal cutting inserts are used by industrial manufacturers to cut metals and are consumed during their use in cutting applications. IMC manufactures hundreds of types of highly engineered inserts within each product line that are tailored to maximize productivity and meet the technical requirements of customers. IMC’s staff of scientists and engineers continuously develop and innovate products that address end user needs and requirements.  

IMC’s global sales and marketing network operates in virtually every major manufacturing center around the world staffed with highly skilled engineers and technical personnel. IMC’s customer base is very diverse, with its primary customers being large, multinational businesses in the automotive, aerospace, engineering and machinery industries. IMC operates a regional central warehouse system with locations in Israel, United States, Belgium, Korea, Japan and Brazil. Additional small quantities of products are maintained at local IMC offices in order to provide on-time customer support and inventory management.  

IMC competes in the metal cutting tools segment of the global metalworking tools market. The segment includes hundreds of participants who range from small, private manufacturers of specialized products for niche applications and markets to larger, global multinational businesses (such as Sandvik and Kennametal, Inc.) with a wide assortment of products and extensive distribution networks. Other manufacturing companies such as Kyocera, Mitsubishi, Sumitomo, Ceratizit and Korloy also play a significant role in the cutting tool market.  

Precision Castparts  

Berkshire acquired Precision Castparts Corp. (“PCC”) on January 29, 2016. PCC manufactures complex metal components and products, provides high-quality investment castings, forgings, fasteners/fastener systems and aerostructures for critical aerospace and power and energy applications. PCC also provides seamless pipe for coal-fired, industrial gas turbine (“IGT”) and nuclear power plants; downhole casing and tubing, fittings and various mill forms in a variety of nickel and steel alloys for severe-service oil and gas environments; investment castings and forgings for general industrial, armament, medical and other applications; nickel and titanium alloys in all standard mill forms from large ingots and billets to plate, foil, sheet, strip, tubing, bar, rod, extruded shapes, rod-in-coil, wire and welding consumables, as well as cobalt alloys, for the aerospace, chemical processing, oil and gas, pollution control and other industries; revert management solutions; fasteners for automotive and general industrial markets; specialty alloys for the investment casting and forging industries; heat treating and destructive testing services for the investment cast products and forging industries; refiner plates and other products for the pulp and paper industry; grinder pumps and affiliated components for low-pressure sewer systems; critical auxiliary equipment and gas monitoring systems for the power generation industry; and metalworking tools for the fastener market and other applications.  

Investment casting technology involves a multi-step process that uses ceramic molds in the manufacture of metal components with more complex shapes, closer tolerances and finer surface finishes than parts manufactured using other methods. PCC uses this process to manufacture products for aircraft engines, IGT’s and other aeroderivative engines, airframes, medical implants, armament, unmanned aerial vehicles and other industrial applications. PCC also manufactures high temperature carbon and ceramic composite components, including ceramic matrix composites, for use in next-generation aerospace engines.  

PCC uses forging processes to manufacture components for the aerospace and power generation markets, including seamless pipe for coal-fired, industrial gas turbine and nuclear power plants, and downhole casings and tubing pipe for severe service oil and gas markets. PCC manufactures high-performance, nickel-based alloys used to produce forged components for aerospace and non-aerospace applications in such markets as oil and gas, chemical processing and pollution control. The titanium products are used to manufacture components for the commercial and military aerospace, power generation, energy, and industrial end markets.  

PCC is also a leading developer and manufacturer of highly engineered fasteners, fastener systems, aerostructures and precision components, primarily for critical aerospace applications. These products are produced for the aerospace and power and energy markets, as well as for construction, automotive, heavy truck, farm machinery, mining and construction equipment, shipbuilding, machine tools, medical equipment, appliances and recreation markets.  

K-11   

Table of Contents 

The majority of sales are generated from purchase orders or demand schedules pursuant to long-term agreements. Contractual terms may provide for termination by the customer subject to payment for work performed. PCC typically does not experience significant order cancellations, although periodically it receives requests for delays in delivery schedules.  

PCC is subject to substantial competition in all of its markets. Components and similar products may be produced by competitors using either the same types of manufacturing processes or other forms of manufacturing. Although PCC believes its manufacturing processes, technology and experience provide advantages to its customers, such as high quality, competitive prices and physical properties that often meet more stringent demands, alternative forms of manufacturing can be used to produce many of the same components and products. Despite intense competition, PCC is a leading supplier in most of its principal markets. Several factors, including long-standing customer relationships, technical expertise, state-of-the-art facilities and dedicated employees, aid PCC in maintaining competitive advantages.  

A number of raw materials in its products, including certain metals such as nickel, titanium, cobalt, tantalum and molybdenum, are found in only a few parts of the world. These metals are required for the alloys used in manufactured products. The availability and costs of these metals may be influenced by private or governmental cartels, changes in world politics, labor relations between the metal producers and their work forces, and/or unstable governments in exporting nations and inflation.  

Marmon Holdings  

Berkshire currently owns 99.75% of Marmon Holdings, Inc. (“Marmon”), a holding company comprised of three autonomous companies consisting of Marmon Engineered Components Company (“Engineered Components”), Marmon Retail Technologies Company (“Retail Technologies”) and Marmon Energy Services Company (“Energy Services”). Energy Services includes the transportation equipment manufacturing, repair, and leasing businesses (UTLX Company), which is discussed in the Finance and Financial Products businesses section of this Item. Engineered Components, Retail Technologies and the Engineered Wire and Cable sector of Energy Services comprise “Marmon manufacturing”. Marmon manufacturing operates approximately 400 manufacturing, distribution, and service facilities, which are located primarily in the United States as well as in 23 other countries worldwide.  

Engineered Components:  

Plumbing, Industrial & Automotive Components supplies copper, aluminum, and stainless steel tubing and fittings for the plumbing, HVAC/R, and aerospace markets, aluminum and brass forgings for many commercial and industrial applications, adhesives primarily for automotive and aerospace applications, clutches, engine mounts, and related components for the light-duty vehicle aftermarket; and precision molded plastic components for safety, electrical, and fluid transfer applications in the automotive market.  

Electrical Products produces electrical building wire for residential, commercial, and industrial buildings, portable lighting equipment for mining and safety markets and overhead electrification equipment for mass transit systems.  

Metal Services provides specialty metal pipe, tubing, beams and related value-added services to a broad range of industries.  

Construction Fasteners & Safety Products supplies fasteners and hand and arm protective wear to the construction, industrial and other markets.  

Highway Technologies serves the heavy-duty highway transportation industry with trailers, truck and trailer components including fifth wheel coupling solutions, wheel-end products, undercarriage products, and fenders, as well as truck modification services.  

Retail Technologies:  

Retail Food Technologies and Restaurant & Catering Technologies supplies commercial food preparation and holding equipment for restaurants, fast food chains, hotels and caterers.  

Beverage Technologies produces beverage dispensing and cooling equipment for foodservice retailers as well as on-shelf management systems for single-serve beverages and pre-tooled stock solutions for in-store applications.  

Water Technologies manufactures and markets residential water softening, purification, and refrigeration filtration systems, treatment systems for industrial markets including power generation, oil and gas, chemical, and pulp and paper, gear drives for irrigation systems and cooling towers and air-cooled heat exchangers.  

Retail Solutions provides retail environment design services, marketing programs, in-store digital merchandising, display fixtures, shopping, material handling, and security carts as well as automation equipment for many industries, and consumer products sold through retail channels, including work and garden gloves, air compressors and extension cords.  

The Engineered Wire & Cable sector supplies electrical and electronic wire and cable for energy related markets and other industries.  

K-12   

Table of Contents 

Other industrial products  

CTB International Corp. (“CTB”), headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a leading global designer, manufacturer and marketer of a wide range of agricultural systems and solutions for preserving grain, producing poultry, pigs and eggs, and for processing poultry, fish, vegetables and other foods. CTB operates from facilities located around the globe and supports customers through a worldwide network of independent distributors and dealers.  

CTB competes with a variety of manufacturers and suppliers, many of which offer only a limited number of the products offered by CTB and two of which offer products across many of CTB’s product lines. Competition is based on the price, value, reputation, quality and design of the products offered and the customer service provided by distributors, dealers and manufacturers of the products. CTB’s leading brand names, distribution network, diversified product line, product support and high-quality products enable it to compete effectively. CTB manufactures its products primarily from galvanized steel, steel wire, stainless steel and polymer materials and supplies of these materials have been sufficient in recent years.  

In 2014, Berkshire acquired a global supplier of pipeline flow improver products from Phillips 66. The business, headquartered in Houston, Texas, was named Phillips Specialty Products, Inc. at the time of the acquisition and is currently named LiquidPower Specialty Products Inc. (“LSPI”). LSPI specializes in maximizing the flow potential of pipelines, increasing operational flexibility and throughput capacity. The Scott Fetzer companies are a group of businesses that manufacture, distribute, service and finance a wide variety of products for residential, industrial and institutional use.  

Berkshire’s industrial products manufacturers employ approximately 72,000 persons.  

Building Products  

Shaw Industries  

Shaw Industries Group, Inc. (“Shaw”), headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is a leading carpet manufacturer based on both revenue and volume of production. Shaw designs and manufactures over 3,800 styles of tufted carpet, wood and resilient flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade names and under certain private labels. Shaw also provides project management and installation services. Shaw’s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the finishing of carpet. Shaw also manufactures or distributes a variety of hardwood, vinyl and laminate floor products (“hard surfaces”). In 2016, Shaw acquired USFloors, Inc., which is a leading innovator and marketer of wood-plastic composite luxury vinyl tile flooring, as well as cork, bamboo and hardwood products. Shaw’s carpet and hard surface products are sold in a broad range of patterns, colors and textures. Shaw operates Shaw Sports Turf and Southwest Greens International, LLC, which provide synthetic sports turf, golf greens and landscape turf products.  

Shaw products are sold wholesale to over 34,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico and are also exported to various overseas markets. Shaw’s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 2,700 salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw’s seven carpet, seven hard surface and two sample full-service distribution facilities and 25 redistribution centers, along with centralized management information systems, enable it to provide prompt and efficient delivery of its products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.  

Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene and polyester. In the tufting process, yarn is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming loops, which may be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or construction. During 2017, Shaw processed approximately 99% of its requirements for carpet yarn in its own yarn processing facilities. The availability of raw materials continues to be good but costs are impacted by petro-chemical and natural gas price changes. Raw material cost changes are periodically factored into selling prices to customers.  

The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 100 companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of carpet in the United States and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard surface floor covering production and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately 50% of the total United States consumption of all flooring types. The principal competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.  

K-13   

Table of Contents 

Johns Manville  

Johns Manville (“JM”) is a leading manufacturer and marketer of premium-quality products for building, mechanical and industrial insulation, commercial roofing and roof insulation, as well as engineered fibers and nonwovens for commercial, industrial and residential applications. JM serves markets that include building, flooring, interiors, aerospace, automotive and transportation, air handling, appliance, HVAC, pipe insulation, filtration, waterproofing and wind energy. Fiberglass is the basic material in a majority of JM’s products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. Raw materials are readily available in sufficient quantities from various sources for JM to maintain and expand its current production levels. JM regards its patents and licenses as valuable, however it does not consider any of its businesses to be materially dependent on any single patent or license. JM is headquartered in Denver, Colorado, and operates 43 manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and China and conducts research and development at its technical center in Littleton, Colorado and at other facilities in the U.S. and Europe.  

Fiberglass is made from earthen raw materials and recycled glass, together with proprietary organic and acrylic-based formaldehyde-free agents to bind many of its glass fibers. JM’s products also contain materials other than fiberglass, including various chemical and petro-chemical-based materials used in roofing and other specialized products. JM uses recycled material when available and suitable to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. The raw materials used in these various products are readily available in sufficient quantities from various sources to maintain and expand its current production levels.  

JM’s operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. The most relevant of the federal laws are the Federal Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, which are administered by the EPA. In 2015, the EPA revised the hazardous air pollutant rules for the wool fiberglass and mineral wool manufacturing industries. While the new rules implement new emission standards, they are not expected to require material expenditures to meet the compliance dates in 2018.  

JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including contractors, distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM operates in a highly competitive market, with competitors comprised primarily of several large global and national manufacturers and smaller regional manufacturers. JM holds leadership positions in the key markets that it serves. JM’s products compete primarily on the basis of value, product differentiation and customization and breadth of product line. Sales of JM’s products are moderately seasonal due to increases in construction activity that typically occur in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. JM is seeing a trend in customer purchasing decisions being influenced by the sustainable and energy efficient attributes of its products, services and operations.  

MiTek Industries, Inc.  

MiTek Industries, Inc. (“MiTek”), based in Chesterfield, Missouri, operates in three separate markets: residential, commercial and industrial. MiTek operates worldwide with sales in over 100 countries and with manufacturing facilities and/or sales/engineering offices located in 21 countries. MiTek has completed a number of bolt-on acquisitions in the past five years, intended to diversify product offerings and reduce the impact of the cyclical global housing markets.  

In the residential market, MiTek is a leading supplier of engineered connector products, construction hardware, engineering software and services and computer-driven manufacturing machinery to the truss component market of the building components industry. MiTek’s primary customers are component manufacturers who manufacture prefabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the residential building market. MiTek also sells construction hardware to commercial distributors and do-it-yourself retail stores under the MiTek Builders Products name.  

MiTek’s commercial market business includes products and services sold to the commercial construction industry. Product offerings include curtain wall systems (Benson Industries, Inc.), anchoring systems for masonry and stone (Hohmann & Barnard, Inc.), light gauge steel framing products (Aegis Metal Framing Division of MiTek USA, Inc.), engineering services for a proprietary high-performance steel frame connection (SidePlate Systems, Inc.) and a comprehensive range of round, rectangular, oval and spiral ductwork for the ventilation market (M&M Manufacturing, Inc. and Snappy ADP, Inc.).  

MiTek’s industrial market business includes: automated machinery for the battery manufacturing industry (TBS Engineering, Ltd.), highly customized air handling systems sold to commercial, institutional and industrial markets (TMI Climate Solutions, Inc.), design and supply of Nuclear Safety Related HVAC systems and components (Ellis & Watts Global Industries, Inc.), energy recovery and dehumidification systems for commercial applications (Heat-Pipe Technology, Inc.) and pre-engineered and pre-fabricated custom structural mezzanines and platforms for distribution and manufacturing facilities (Cubic Designs, Inc. and Mezzanine International, Ltd.).  

K-14   

Table of Contents 

A significant raw material used by MiTek is hot dipped galvanized sheet steel. While supplies are presently adequate, variations in supply have historically occurred, producing significant variations in cost and availability.  

Benjamin Moore  

Benjamin Moore & Co. (“Benjamin Moore”), headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading formulator, manufacturer and retailer of a broad range of architectural coatings, available principally in the United States and Canada. Products include water-based and solvent-based general-purpose coatings (paints, stains and clear finishes) for use by the consumers, contractors and industrial and commercial users. Products are marketed under various registered brand names, including, but not limited to: Aura®, Natura®, Regal Select®, Ultra Spec®, ben®, Eco Spec®, Coronado®, Corotech®, Insl-x®, Lenmar®, Super Kote®, Arborcoat®, Super Hide®, Century®, Ultra Spec®, SCUFF-X® and Notable™.   

Benjamin Moore relies primarily on an independent dealer network for distribution of its products. Benjamin Moore’s distribution network includes over 3,300 independent retailers currently representing over 5,000 storefronts in the United States and Canada. The independent dealer channel offers a broad array of products including Benjamin Moore®, Coronado® and Insl-x® brands and other competitor coatings, wall coverings, window treatments and sundries. In addition, Benjamin Moore operates an on-line “pick up in store” program, which allows consumers to place orders via an e-commerce site or for national accounts and government agencies via its customer information center. These orders may be picked up at the customer’s nearest dealer.  

Benjamin Moore competes with numerous manufacturers, distributors and paint, coatings and related products retailers. Product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, service and price determine the competitive advantage. Competitors include other paint and decorating stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets, such as Sherwin-Williams Company, PPG Industries, Inc., The Valspar Corporation, The Home Depot, Inc. and Lowe’s Companies.  

The most significant raw materials in Benjamin Moore products are titanium dioxide, solvents, and epoxy and other resins. Historically, these materials have been generally available, with pricing and availability subject to fluctuation.  

Acme Brick  

Acme Brick Company (“Acme”) headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures and distributes clay bricks (Acme Brick®), concrete block (Featherlite) and cut limestone (Texas Quarries). In addition, Acme and its subsidiaries distribute a number of other building products of other manufacturers, including floor and wall tile, wood flooring and other masonry products. Products are sold primarily in the South Central and South Eastern United States through company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.  

Acme and its affiliates operate 25 clay brick manufacturing facilities at 21 sites located in eight states, six concrete block facilities in Texas and two stone fabrication facilities located in Texas and Alabama. In addition, Acme and its subsidiaries operate a glass block fabrication facility, a concrete bagging facility and a stone burnishing facility, all located in Texas. The demand for Acme’s products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months, and is subject to the level of construction activity, which is cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials used in many of its manufactured products. Acme’s raw materials supply is believed to be adequate.  

The brick industry is subject to the EPA’s Maximum Achievable Control Technology Rule (MACT Rule) finalized in October of 2015 with a deadline for compliance of December 31, 2018. Key elements of the MACT Rule include emission limits established for certain hazardous air pollutants and acidic gases. The MACT Rule also establishes work practices for “periodic” kilns, including using a designed firing time and temperature for each product, labeling maximum loads, keeping a log of each load, and developing and implementing inspection and maintenance procedures. While many of Acme’s facilities are in compliance, additional capital expenditures may be required to bring other facilities into compliance by the deadline.  

Berkshire’s building products manufacturers employ approximately 39,000 people.  

K-15   

Table of Contents 

Consumer Products  

Apparel  

Fruit of the Loom (“FOL”) is headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky. FOL is primarily a manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel, underwear, casualwear, athletic apparel and hardgoods. Products, under the Fruit of the Loom® and JERZEES® labels are primarily sold in the mass merchandise, mid-tier chains and wholesale markets. In the Vanity Fair Brands product line, Vassarette® and Curvation® are sold in the mass merchandise market, while Vanity Fair® and Lily of France® products are sold to mid-tier chains and department stores. FOL also markets and sells athletic uniforms, apparel, sports equipment and balls to team dealers; collegiate licensed tee shirts and fleecewear to college bookstores; and athletic apparel, sports equipment and balls to sporting goods retailers under the Russell Athletic® and Spalding® brands. Additionally, Spalding® markets and sells balls in the mass merchandise market and dollar store channels. In 2015, FOL exited an unprofitable intimate apparel business in Europe. In 2017, a significant portion of FOL’s sales were to Walmart.  

FOL generally performs its own knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging for apparel. For the North American market, which comprised about 84% of FOL’s net sales in 2017, the majority of its cloth manufacturing was performed in Honduras. Labor-intensive cutting, sewing and packaging operations are located in Central America and the Caribbean. For the European market, products are either sourced from third-party contractors in Europe or Asia or sewn in Morocco from textiles internally produced in Morocco. FOL’s bras, athletic equipment, sporting goods and other athletic apparel lines are generally sourced from third-party contractors located primarily in Asia.  

U.S. grown cotton and polyester fibers are the main raw materials used in the manufacturing of FOL’s apparel products and are purchased from a limited number of third-party suppliers. Additionally in 2015, FOL entered into an eight year agreement with one key supplier to provide the majority of FOL’s yarn. Management currently believes there are readily available alternative sources of raw materials and yarn. However, if relationships with suppliers cannot be maintained or delays occur in obtaining alternative sources of supply, production could be adversely affected, which could have a corresponding adverse effect on results of operations. Additionally, raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. FOL has secured contracts to purchase cotton, either directly or through the yarn suppliers, to meet the majority of its production plans for 2018. FOL’s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally based upon product features, quality, customer service and price.  

Garan designs, manufactures, imports and sells apparel primarily for children, including boys, girls, toddlers and infants. Products are sold under its own trademark Garanimals® and customer private label brands. Garan also licenses its registered trademark Garanimals® to third parties for apparel and non-apparel products. Garan conducts its business through operating subsidiaries located in the United States, Central America and Asia. Substantially all of Garan’s products are sold through its distribution centers in the United States with sales to Walmart representing over 90% of its sales. Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes and sells uniforms, principally for the public service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and military markets. Fechheimer Brothers is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.  

The H.H. Brown Shoe Group manufactures and distributes work, rugged outdoor and casual shoes and western-style footwear under a number of brand names, including Justin, Tony Lama®, Nocona®, Chippewa®, BØRN® , B•Ø•C®, Carolina®, Söfft, Double-H Boots®, Nursemates® and Comfortiva®. Brooks Sports markets and sells performance running footwear and apparel to specialty and national retailers and directly to consumers under the Brooks® brand. A significant volume of the shoes sold by Berkshire’s shoe businesses are manufactured or purchased from sources outside the United States. Products are sold worldwide through a variety of channels including department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through company-owned retail stores.  

Other consumer products  

Forest River, Inc. (“Forest River”) is a manufacturer of recreational vehicles (“RV”), utility cargo trailers, buses and pontoon boats, headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana with products sold in the United States and Canada through an independent dealer network. Forest River has numerous manufacturing facilities located in six states. Forest River is a leading manufacturer of RVs with brand names such as Berkshire, Cardinal, Cedar Creek, Cherokee, Coachman, Dynamax, Flagstaff, Forester, Georgetown, Palomino, Prime Time Manufacturing, Puma, Rockwood, Salem, Sandpiper, Sierra, Sunseeker, Surveyor, Viking RV and Wildwood. Utility cargo trailers are sold under Cargo Mate, Continental, Rance and US Cargo brand names among others. Buses are sold under the Battisti, Berkshire Coach, Elkhart Coach, Glaval Bus, Starcraft Bus, and Startrans Bus brand names. Pontoon boats are sold under the Berkshire, South Bay and Trifecta brand names. The RV industry is very competitive. Competition is based primarily on price, design, quality and service. The industry has consolidated over the past several years with Forest River and its largest competitor possessing about 83% aggregate market share, with Forest River holding a 35% market share.  

K-16   

Table of Contents 

Berkshire acquired the Duracell Company (“Duracell’), on February 29, 2016 from The Procter & Gamble Company. Duracell, headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, is a leading manufacturer of high performance alkaline batteries. Duracell manufactures batteries in the U.S., Europe and China and provides a network of worldwide sales and distribution centers. Costco and Walmart are significant customers, representing approximately 25% of Duracell’s annual revenue. There are several competitors in the battery manufacturing market with Duracell holding an approximately 36% market share of the global alkaline battery market. Management believes there are sufficient sources of raw materials, which primarily include steel, zinc and manganese.  

Albecca Inc. (“Albecca”), headquartered in Norcross, Georgia, has operations in the U.S., Canada and 13 countries outside of North America and operates primarily under the Larson-Juhl® name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass and framing supplies. Complementary to its framing products, Albecca offers art printing and fulfillment services.  

Richline Group, Inc. operates four strategic business units: Richline Jewelry, LeachGarner, Rio Grande and Inverness. Each business unit is a manufacturer and distributor of jewelry with precious metal and non-precious metal products to specific target markets including large jewelry chains, department stores, shopping networks, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and artisans plus worldwide manufacturers and wholesalers and the medical, electronic and aerospace industries.  

Berkshire’s consumer products manufacturers employ approximately 54,000 persons.  

Service and Retailing Businesses  

Service Businesses  

Berkshire’s service businesses provide grocery and foodservice distribution, professional aviation training programs, fractional aircraft ownership programs and distribution of electronic components. Other service businesses include franchising and servicing of quick service restaurants, media businesses (newspaper, television and information distribution), as well as logistics businesses. Berkshire’s service businesses employ approximately 46,000 people. Information concerning these activities follows.  

McLane Company  

McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) provides wholesale distribution services in all 50 states to customers that include convenience stores, discount retailers, wholesale clubs, drug stores, military bases, quick service restaurants and casual dining restaurants. McLane provides wholesale distribution services to Walmart, which accounts for approximately 25% of McLane’s revenues. McLane’s other significant customers include 7-Eleven and Yum! Brands, each of which accounted for approximately 11% of McLane’s revenues in 2017. A curtailment of purchasing by Walmart or its other significant customers could have a material adverse impact on McLane’s periodic revenues and earnings. McLane’s business model is based on a high volume of sales, rapid inventory turnover and stringent expense controls. Operations are currently divided into three business units: grocery distribution, foodservice distribution and beverage distribution.  

McLane’s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, maintains a dominant market share within the convenience store industry and serves most of the national convenience store chains and major oil company retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to approximately 49,000 retail locations nationwide, including Walmart. McLane’s grocery distribution unit operates 23 distribution facilities in 20 states.  

McLane’s foodservice distribution unit, based in Carrollton, Texas, focuses on serving the quick service and casual dining restaurant industry with high quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 50 facilities in 22 states. The foodservice distribution unit services approximately 36,500 chain restaurants nationwide.  

Through its subsidiaries, McLane also operates several wholesale distributors of distilled spirits, wine and beer. Operations are conducted through 14 distribution centers in Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Colorado. These beverage units operating as Empire Distributors, Empire Distributors of North Carolina, Empire Distributors of Tennessee and Baroness Small Estates, service approximately 24,900 retail locations in the Southeastern United States and Colorado.  

K-17   

Table of Contents 

FlightSafety International  

FlightSafety International Inc. (“FlightSafety”), headquartered at New York’s LaGuardia Airport, is an industry leader in professional aviation training services to individuals, businesses (including certain commercial aviation companies) and the U.S. government and certain foreign governments. FlightSafety provides high technology training to pilots, aircraft maintenance technicians, flight attendants and dispatchers who operate and support a wide variety of business, commercial and military aircraft. FlightSafety operates a large fleet of advanced full flight simulators at its learning centers and training locations in the United States, Canada, China, France, Japan, Norway, Singapore, South Africa, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. The vast majority of FlightSafety’s instructors, training programs and flight simulators are qualified by the United States Federal Aviation Administration and other aviation regulatory agencies around the world.  

FlightSafety is also a leader in the design and manufacture of full flight simulators, visual systems, displays and other advanced technology training devices. This equipment is used to support FlightSafety training programs and is offered for sale to airlines and government and military organizations around the world. Manufacturing facilities are located in Oklahoma, Missouri and Texas. FlightSafety strives to maintain and manufacture simulators and develop courseware using state-of-the-art technology and invests in research and development as it builds new equipment and training programs.  

NetJets  

NetJets Inc. (“NetJets”) is the world’s leading provider of shared ownership programs for general aviation aircraft. NetJets’ global headquarters is located in Columbus, Ohio, with most of its logistical and flight operations based at Port Columbus International Airport. NetJets’ European operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal. The shared ownership concept is designed to meet the travel needs of customers who require the scale, flexibility and access of a large fleet that whole aircraft ownership cannot deliver. In addition, shared ownership programs are available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation needs or add capacity for peak periods and for others that previously chartered aircraft.  

With a focus on safety and service, NetJets’ programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, predictable operating costs and increased liquidity. NetJets’ shared aircraft ownership programs permit customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allows customers to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight hours annually. In addition, NetJets offers prepaid flight cards and other aviation solutions and services for aircraft management, customized aircraft sales and acquisition, ground support and flight operation services under a number of programs including NetJets Shares™, NetJets Leases™ and the Marquis Jet Card®.  

NetJets is subject to the rules and regulations of the United States Federal Aviation Administration, the National Institute of Civil Aviation of Portugal and the European Aviation Safety Agency. Regulations address aircraft registration, maintenance requirements, pilot qualifications and airport operations, including flight planning and scheduling as well as security issues and other matters.  

TTI, Inc.  

TTI, Inc. (“TTI”), headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, is a global specialty distributor of passive, interconnect, electromechanical, discrete and semiconductor components used by customers in the manufacturing and assembling of electronic products. TTI’s customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, electronic manufacturing services, original design manufacturers, military and commercial customers, as well as design and system engineers. TTI’s distribution agreements with the industry’s leading suppliers allow it to uniquely leverage its product cost and to expand its business by providing new lines and products to its customers. TTI operates sales offices and distribution centers from more than 100 locations throughout North America, Europe, Asia and Israel.  

TTI services a variety of industries including telecommunications, medical devices, computers and office equipment, military/aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics. TTI’s core customers include businesses in the design through production stages in the electronic component supply chain, which supports its high volume business, and its Mouser subsidiary, which supports a broader base of customers with lower volume purchases through internet based marketing. Sager Electrical Supply Company, Inc. is a subsidiary of TTI located in Massachusetts whose additional focus is the distribution of power components within the electronics distribution market.  

K-18   

Table of Contents 

Other services  

International Dairy Queen develops and services a worldwide system of over 6,800 stores operating primarily under the names DQ Grill and Chill®, Dairy Queen® and Orange Julius® that offer various dairy desserts, beverages, prepared foods and blended fruit drinks. Business Wire provides electronic dissemination of full-text news releases to the media, online services and databases and the global investment community in 150 countries and in 45 languages. Approximately 97% of Business Wire’s revenues derive from its core news distribution business. The Buffalo News and BH Media Group, Inc. are publishers of 32 daily and 44 weekly newspapers. WPLG, Inc. is an ABC affiliate broadcast station in Miami, Florida and Charter Brokerage is a leading non-asset based third party logistics provider to the petroleum and chemical industries.  

Retailing Businesses  

Berkshire’s retailing businesses include automotive, home furnishings and several other operations that sell various consumer products to consumers. Information regarding each of these operations follows. Berkshire’s retailing businesses employ approximately 29,400 people.  

Berkshire Hathaway Automotive  

In the first quarter of 2015, Berkshire acquired a group of affiliated companies referred to as the Berkshire Hathaway Automotive Group, Inc. (BHA). BHA is one of the largest automotive retailers in the United States, currently operating 109 new vehicle franchises through 83 dealerships located primarily in major metropolitan markets in the United States. The dealerships sell new and used vehicles, vehicle maintenance and repair services, extended service contracts, vehicle protection products and other aftermarket products. BHA also arranges financing for its customers through third-party lenders. BHA operates 30 collision service centers directly connected to the dealerships’ operations and owns and operates two auto auctions and a fluid maintenance products distribution company.  

Dealership operations are highly concentrated in the Arizona and Texas markets, with approximately 70% of dealership-related revenues derived from sales in these markets. BHA currently maintains franchise agreements with 27 different vehicle manufacturers, although it derives a significant portion of its revenue from the Toyota/Lexus, General Motors, Ford/Lincoln, Nissan/Infiniti and Honda/Acura brands. Over 85% of BHA’s revenues are from dealerships representing these manufacturers.  

The retail automotive industry is highly competitive. BHA faces competition from other large public and private dealership groups, as well as individual franchised dealerships and competition via the Internet. Given the pricing transparency available via the Internet, and the fact that franchised dealers acquire vehicles from the manufacturers on the same terms irrespective of volume, the location and quality of the dealership facility, customer service and transaction speed are key differentiators in attracting customers.  

BHA’s overall relationships with the automobile manufacturers are governed by framework agreements. The framework agreements contain provisions relating to the management, operation, acquisition and the ownership structure of BHA’s dealerships. Failure to meet the terms of these agreements could adversely impact BHA’s ability to acquire additional dealerships representing those manufacturers. Additionally, these agreements contain limitations on the number of dealerships from a specific manufacturer that may be owned by BHA.  

Individual dealerships operate under franchise agreements with the manufacturer, which grants the dealership entity a non-exclusive right to sell the manufacturer’s brand of vehicles and offer related parts and service within a specified market area, as well as the right to use the manufacturer’s trademarks. The agreements contain various requirements and restrictions related to the management and operation of the franchised dealership and provide for termination of the agreement by the manufacturer or non-renewal for a variety of causes. The states generally have automotive dealership franchise laws that provide substantial protection to the franchisee, and it is difficult for a manufacturer to terminate or not renew a franchise agreement outside of bankruptcy or with “good cause” under the applicable state franchise law.  

BHA owns facilities with approximately 6.0 million square feet of space and approximately 970 acres of land that are utilized in its operations. BHA also develops, underwrites and administers various vehicle protection plans as well as life and accident and health insurance plans sold to consumers through BHA’s dealerships and third party dealerships. BHA also develops proprietary training programs and materials, and provides ongoing monitoring and training of the dealership’s finance and insurance personnel.  

K-19   

Table of Contents 

Home furnishings retailing  

The home furnishings businesses consist of Nebraska Furniture Mart (“NFM”), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture Company (“Star”) and Jordan’s Furniture, Inc. (“Jordan’s”). These businesses offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line of major household appliances, electronics, computers and other home furnishings and offer customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business volume by offering significant value to their customers.  

NFM operates its business from three large retail complexes with almost 2.8 million square feet of retail space and sizable warehouse and administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska, Kansas City, Kansas and The Colony, Texas (a suburb of Dallas). NFM is the largest furniture retailer in each of these markets. The Colony, Texas store opened in 2015 and includes retail space of approximately 560,000 square feet. NFM also owns Homemakers Furniture located in Des Moines, Iowa, which has approximately 215,000 square feet of retail space. R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, is the dominant home furnishings retailer in the Intermountain West region of the United States. R.C. Willey currently operates 11 retail stores and three distribution centers. These facilities include approximately 1.3 million square feet of retail space with six stores located in Utah, one store in Idaho, three stores in Nevada and one store in California.  

Jordan’s operates a retail furniture business from six locations with approximately 770,000 square feet of retail space in stores located in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Connecticut. The retail stores are supported by an 800,000 square foot distribution center in Taunton, Massachusetts. Jordan’s is the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Jordan’s is well known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns. Star’s retail facilities include about 700,000 square feet of retail space in 11 locations in Texas with eight in Houston. Star maintains a dominant position in each of its markets.  

Other retailing  

Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc. (“Borsheims”) operates from a single store in Omaha, Nebraska. Borsheims is a high volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. Helzberg’s Diamond Shops, Inc. (“Helzberg”) is based in North Kansas City, Missouri, and operates a chain of 213 retail jewelry stores in 36 states, which includes approximately 460,000 square feet of retail space. Helzberg’s stores are located in malls, lifestyle centers, power strip centers and outlet malls, and all stores operate under the name Helzberg Diamonds® or Helzberg Diamonds Outlet®. The Ben Bridge Corporation (“Ben Bridge Jeweler”), based in Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 93 upscale retail jewelry stores located in 11 states primarily in the Western United States and in British Columbia, Canada. Forty-four of its retail locations are concept stores that sell only PANDORA jewelry. Principal products include finished jewelry and timepieces. Ben Bridge Jeweler stores are located primarily in major shopping malls.  

See’s Candies (“See’s”) produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in Los Angeles and San Francisco and one smaller facility in Burlingame, California. See’s operates approximately 245 retail and quantity discount stores located mainly in California and other Western states. See’s revenues are highly seasonal with nearly half of its annual revenues earned in the fourth quarter.  

The Pampered Chef, Ltd. (“Pampered Chef”) is a premier direct seller of distinctive high quality kitchenware products with operations in the United States, Canada and Germany. Pampered Chef’s product portfolio consists of approximately 400 Pampered Chef® branded kitchenware items in categories ranging from stoneware and cutlery to grilling and entertaining. Pampered Chef’s products are available online as well as through a sales force of independent cooking consultants.  

Oriental Trading Company (“OTC”) is a leading multi-channel retailer and online destination for value-priced party supplies, arts and crafts, toys and novelties, school supplies and educational games. OTC, headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska, serves a broad base of nearly four million customers annually, including consumers, schools, churches, non-profit organizations, medical and dental offices and other businesses. OTC offers over 50,000 products on its websites, and utilizes sophisticated digital and print marketing efforts.  

In April 2015, Berkshire acquired Detlev Louis Motorrad (“Louis”) which is headquartered in Hamburg, Germany. Louis is a leading retailer of motorcycle apparel and equipment in Europe. Louis carries over 32,000 different products from more than 600 manufacturers, primarily covering the clothing, technical equipment and leisure markets. Louis has over 70 stores in Germany and Austria and also sells through catalogs and via the Internet throughout most of Europe.  

K-20   

Table of Contents 

Finance and Financial Products  

Berkshire’s finance and financial products activities include an integrated manufactured housing and finance business, transportation equipment leasing and furniture leasing. Berkshire’s finance and financial products businesses employ approximately 25,600 people in the aggregate. Information concerning these activities follows.  

Clayton Homes  

Clayton Homes, Inc. (“Clayton”), headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated housing company utilizing manufactured, modular and site built methods. Clayton’s homes are marketed in 48 states through a network of over 2,000 retailers, including 353 company-owned home centers and 118 subdivisions. Home finance and insurance products are offered through its subsidiaries primarily to purchasers of manufactured and modular homes.  

In 2015, Clayton acquired its first site builder and has since added four additional site builders. Clayton plans to continue to seek acquisitions that fit its business model. Clayton delivered approximately 49,000 homes in 2017 at various price points. Clayton competes based on price, service, delivery capabilities and product performance and considers the ability to make financing available to retail purchasers a factor affecting the market acceptance of its products.  

Clayton’s financing programs support company-owned home centers and select independent retailers. Proprietary loan underwriting guidelines have been developed and include ability to repay calculations, including debt to income limits, consideration of residual income and credit score requirements, which are considered in evaluating loan applicants. Currently, approximately 70% of the loan originations are home-only loans and the remaining 30% have land as additional collateral. The average down payment is approximately 15%, which may be from cash, trade or land equity. Certain loan types require an independent third-party valuation; additionally, if land is involved in the transaction it generally is independently appraised in order to establish the value of the land only or the home and the land as a package. Originated loans are at fixed rates and for fixed terms. Loans outstanding include non-government originations, bulk purchases of contracts and notes from banks and other lenders. Clayton also provides inventory financing to certain independent retailers and community operators and services housing contracts and notes that were not purchased or originated. The bulk contract purchases and servicing arrangements may relate to the portfolios of other lenders or finance companies, governmental agencies, or other entities that purchase and hold housing contracts and notes. Clayton also acts as an agent on physical damage insurance policies, homebuyer protection plan policies and other programs.  

Transportation Equipment Leasing  

UTLX Company (“UTLX”), headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, operates railcar, crane, intermodal tank container, manufacturing and service businesses under several brand names. Union Tank Car is a leading designer, builder and full-service lessor of tank cars and other specialized railcars. Union Tank Car and its Canadian affiliate Procor own a fleet of over 130,000 railcars which they lease to chemical, petrochemical, energy and agricultural/food customers across North America, supported by railcar repair facilities and mobile units. Union Tank Car also manufactures tank cars in two U.S. plants. Sterling Crane located in Canada and the U.S. and Freo Group located in Australia are major mobile crane service providers with a total fleet of approximately 1,000 cranes primarily serving energy, mining and petrochemical markets. EXSIF Worldwide is a leading international lessor of intermodal tank containers with a fleet of approximately 50,000 units primarily serving chemical producers and logistics operators.  

UTLX has a large number of customers diversified both geographically and across industries. UTLX, while subject to cyclicality and significant competition in all of its markets, competes by offering a broad range of high quality products and services targeted at its niche markets from geographically strategic locations. Railcars and intermodal tank containers are usually leased for multiple-year terms and most of the leases are renewed upon expiration. As a result of selective ongoing capital investment and high maintenance standards, utilization rates (the number of units on lease to total units available) of UTLX’s railcar, crane and intermodal tank container equipment are generally relatively high. Following the downturn of oil and gas related markets in recent years, renewal rental rates have declined in each of these markets and has precipitated a decline in utilization in UTLX’s railcar leasing business, which has a meaningful effect on UTLX. While tank cars operate in a highly regulated environment in North America, regulatory changes are not expected to materially impact UTLX’s operational capability, competitive position, or financial strength.  

XTRA Corporation (“XTRA”), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading transportation equipment lessor operating under the XTRA Lease® brand name. XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 81,000 units located at 51 facilities throughout the United States. The fleet includes over-the-road and storage trailers, chassis, temperature controlled vans and flatbed trailers. XTRA is one of the largest lessors (in terms of units available) of over-the-road trailers in North America. Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing equipment. Therefore, as a provider of marginal capacity to its customers, XTRA’s utilization rates and operating results tend to be cyclical. In addition, transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a broad selection of equipment and quick response times.  

K-21   

Table of Contents 

Other financial activities  

CORT Business Services Corporation is the leading national provider of rental relocation services including rental furniture, accessories and related services in the “rent-to-rent” market of the furniture rental industry. BH Finance LLC invests in fixed-income and equity instruments.  

Additional information with respect to Berkshire’s businesses  

Revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to Berkshire’s reportable business segments are included in Note 23 to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding Berkshire’s investments in fixed maturity and equity securities is included in Notes 3 and 4, respectively, to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Since June 2013, Berkshire has maintained significant investments in H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation (now The Kraft Heinz Company). Information concerning these investments is included in Note 5 to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Kraft Heinz is one of the largest food and beverage companies in the world, with sales in approximately 190 countries and territories. Kraft Heinz manufactures and markets food and beverage products, including condiments and sauces, cheese and dairy meals, meats, refreshment beverages, coffee and other grocery products, throughout the world, under a host of iconic brands including Heinz, Kraft, Oscar Mayer, Philadelphia, Velveeta, Lunchables, Planters, Maxwell House, Capri Sun, Ore-Ida, Kool-Aid and Jell-O.  

Berkshire maintains a website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com) where its annual reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim shareholder reports and links to its subsidiaries’ websites can be found. Berkshire’s periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of these reports can be accessed at the SEC’s website (http://www.sec.gov) and indirectly through Berkshire’s website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com). Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3555 Farnam Street, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these reports from the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors