ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.  

Interest Rates. Our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). The Company’s policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. The following table summarizes information related to the Company’s interest rate market risk at December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) 2014 amount differs from the amount reported in the Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 due to the adoption of an accounting standard update in 2015. See Note 1(t) to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information.  

A change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2015 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in the Company’s interest income of approximately $54 million during 2016.  

Commodity Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel). The price level of aircraft fuel can significantly affect the Company’s operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity.  

To protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the Company may hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements. The Company may restructure hedges in response to market conditions prior to their original settlement dates which may result in changes in hedge coverage levels and the potential recognition of gains or losses on such hedge contracts. The Company generally uses financial hedge instruments including fixed-price swaps, purchased call options, and commonly used combinations using put and call options including collars (a sold put option combined with a purchased call option), three-ways (a collar with a higher strike sold call option) and four-way collars (a collar with a higher strike sold call option and a lower strike purchased put option). These hedge instruments are generally based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities including diesel fuel and crude oil.  

50  

If the prices of the underlying commodity drop and stay below specified floor prices in some hedge contracts such as fixed-price swaps and collars, the Company may incur losses. However, the negative impact of these losses would be significantly outweighed by the benefit of lower aircraft fuel cost since the Company typically hedges only a portion of its future fuel requirements. In addition, the Company continually monitors its portfolio of hedge contracts and may take actions to curtail or limit its losses from such hedge contracts if market conditions change.  

If fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time we enter into a hedge contract, we may be required to post collateral (margin) with our hedge counterparties. The Company frequently monitors this margin risk and assesses the potential of depositing additional collateral with each of its counterparties. At times, when the fair market value of the Company’s hedge contracts is net positive to the Company, it is exposed to the event of non-performance by the counterparty to the hedge contract. The Company periodically monitors the credit worthiness of its counterparties, requires its counterparties to post collateral above certain thresholds and generally limits its exposure to any single counterparty.  

The Company may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. The following table summarizes information related to the Company’s cost of fuel and hedging (in millions, except percentages):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) Includes related taxes and fuel hedge impacts and excludes special charges. In 2014, the Company’s fuel cost was 32% of total operating expenses.  

(b) Based on 2016 projected fuel consumption. Does not include the impact of fuel hedges.  

(c) As of December 31, 2014, the net fair value of the Company’s fuel hedges was a liability of $717 million.  

(d) Based on fuel hedge positions at December 31, 2015.  

(e) Assumes instantaneous change in prices.  

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had hedged approximately 17% of its projected fuel requirements (652 million gallons) for 2016, with commonly used financial hedge instruments based on aircraft fuel or crude oil. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had fuel hedges expiring through December 2016.  

51  

The fuel hedge portfolio is comprised of many individual hedge contracts (primarily option contracts) on multiple underlying commodities and entered into at various points in time, resulting in a wide range of strike prices with several hedge counterparties. The table below provides a view of the economic impact of the hedge portfolio on the Company’s 2016 fuel costs given significant moves (up to +/-30%) in market fuel prices from December 31, 2015 (in millions).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Foreign Currency. The Company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Company’s results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. Some of the Company’s more significant foreign currency exposures include the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, European euro, British pound and Japanese yen. At times, the Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as options, collars and forward contracts, to hedge its exposure to foreign currency. At December 31, 2015, the Company had foreign currency derivative contracts in place to hedge European euro denominated sales. The notional amount of the hedges equates to 18% of the Company’s projected European euro denominated net cash inflows for 2016. Net cash relates primarily to passenger ticket sales inflows partially offset by expenses paid in local currencies. At December 31, 2015, the fair value of the Company’s foreign currency derivatives was not material to the Company’s financial statements.  

The result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2015 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the Company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $236 million for the year ending December 31, 2016. This sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2016 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of December 31, 2015 and reflects the potential benefit of the European euro hedges mentioned above.  

52  

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.