ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.  

Overview  

United Continental Holdings, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “UAL” or the “Company”) is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiary is United Airlines, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “United”). As UAL consolidates United for financial statement purposes, disclosures that relate to activities of United also apply to UAL, unless otherwise noted. United’s operating revenues and operating expenses comprise nearly 100% of UAL’s revenues and operating expenses. In addition, United comprises approximately the entire balance of UAL’s assets, liabilities and operating cash flows. When appropriate, UAL and United are named specifically for their individual contractual obligations and related disclosures and any significant differences between the operations and results of UAL and United are separately disclosed and explained. We sometimes use the words “we,” “our,” “us,” and the “Company” in this report for disclosures that relate to all of UAL and United.  

2015 Financial Highlights  

   •    2015 net income was $7.3 billion, or $19.47 diluted earnings per share, which reflects $3.1 billion of income tax benefits primarily due to the release of the income tax valuation allowance. Non-GAAP net income was $4.5 billion for 2015, or $11.88 diluted earnings per share, which excludes $2.6 billion of special items and reflects $249 million of Hedge Program Adjustments. See Part II, Item 6 of this report for a reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP net income.  

   •    United’s consolidated PRASM decreased 4.4% in 2015 compared to 2014.  

   •    Aircraft fuel cost decreased 36% year-over-year due mainly to lower fuel prices.  

   •    2015 consolidated CASM, excluding special charges, third-party business expenses, fuel and profit sharing, decreased 0.7% year-over-year on a consolidated capacity increase of 1.6%. 2015 CASM, including those items, decreased 11.9% year-over-year.  

   •    The Company used $1.2 billion of cash to purchase 21 million shares of its common stock during 2015 under its share repurchase programs. As of December 31, 2015, the Company has $2.4 billion remaining to spend under the 2015 Program. See Part II, Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” of this report for additional information.  

   •    UAL ended the year with $6.5 billion in unrestricted liquidity, which consisted of unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and available capacity under the revolving credit facility of the Company’s Credit Agreement.  

   •    UAL, United and Mileage Plus Holdings, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL and United, entered into a Second Amended and Restated Co-Branded Card Marketing Services Agreement (the “Co-Brand Agreement”) with Chase Bank USA, N.A. (“Chase”), pursuant to which members of the Company’s MileagePlus® loyalty program earn frequent flyer miles for making purchases using a MileagePlus® credit card issued by Chase. The Co-Brand Agreement also provides for joint marketing and other support for the MileagePlus® credit card. This increased 2015 operating revenues by approximately $200 million from the combined impact of the Co-Brand Agreement, agreements ancillary to the Co-Brand Agreement and updated accounting assumptions for accounting purposes.  

2015 Operational Highlights  

   •    Consolidated RPMs for 2015 increased 1.5% as compared to 2014, and consolidated ASMs increased 1.6% from the prior year, resulting in a consolidated load factor of 83.4% in 2015.  

   •    For 2015 and 2014, the Company recorded a DOT on-time arrival rate of 78.1% and 76.0%, respectively, and a system completion factor of 98.7% and 98.6%, respectively.  

31  

   •    The Company took delivery of 11 new Boeing 787-9 Dreamliners in 2015, bringing its total Dreamliner fleet to 25 aircraft. The Company also took delivery of 23 new Boeing 737-900ERs, 11 new Embraer E175s and four used Boeing 737-700 aircraft in 2015. United exited from scheduled service 13 Boeing 757-200s, 46 Embraer ERJ 145s and one Boeing 747-400. The Company also exited one Boeing 747-400 operating exclusively in charter service.  

   •    Effective March 1, 2015, the Company modified its MileagePlus program for most tickets from the prior model in which members earn redeemable miles based on distance traveled to the current model, which is based on ticket price (including base fare and carrier imposed surcharges). Members are now able to earn between five and eleven miles per dollar spent based on their MileagePlus status. The modified program enhances the rewards for customers who spend more with United and gives them improved mileage-earning opportunities.  

2016 Outlook  

Set forth below is a discussion of the principal matters that we believe could impact our financial and operating performance and cause our results of operations in future periods to differ materially from our historical operating results and/or from our anticipated results of operations described in the forward-looking statements in this report. See Item 1A., Risk Factors, of this report and the factors described under “Forward-Looking Information” below for additional discussion of these and other factors that could affect us.  

The Company is committed to improving the efficiency and quality of all aspects of its business in 2016. Key initiatives for the year include improving our operational reliability and the handling of customers during irregular operations, such as adverse weather, refurbishing aircraft interiors, investing in our airports and taking delivery of more than 30 new, highly-efficient and customer-pleasing aircraft.  

Economic Conditions. The economic outlook for the aviation industry in 2016 is characterized by expected slow or modest U.S. and global economic growth. In such conditions, we expect a modest increase in the demand for air travel. Continuing economic uncertainty, along with the strengthening U.S. dollar, is providing uncertainty in key Asian and European markets, and along with continued political and socioeconomic tensions in regions such as the Middle East, may result in diminished demand for air travel. The global economy is also being impacted by declining oil prices, putting pressure on certain geographic markets.   

Capacity. Over the past three years, the Company leveraged the flexibility of its fleet to better match capacity with market demand. In 2016, the Company expects consolidated ASMs to grow between 1.5% and 2.5% year-over-year.  

Fuel. The Company’s average aircraft fuel price per gallon including related taxes was $1.94 in 2015 as compared to $2.99 in 2014. Since 2014, the price of jet fuel has declined and remains volatile. Based on projected fuel consumption in 2016, a one dollar change in the price of a barrel of crude oil would change the Company’s annual fuel expense by approximately $94 million. To protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the Company may hedge a portion of its future fuel requirements.  

Labor. As of December 31, 2015, United had approximately 80% of employees represented by unions. We are in the process of negotiating joint collective bargaining agreements with our technicians and flight attendants and negotiating extensions to the IAM represented employees’ agreements. The Company cannot predict the outcome of negotiations with its unionized employee groups, although significant increases in the pay and benefits resulting from new collective bargaining agreements would have a material financial impact on the Company. The cost associated with the ratification of the pilots’ agreement will add an additional approximate 1.5 points of non-fuel unit cost in both the first-quarter and full-year 2016 versus 2015.   

CASM. In 2016, the Company expects CASM, excluding fuel, third-party business expense, profit sharing, special charges and the impact of the recently ratified pilot agreement to be up between 0.5% and 1.5% year-over-year. We are unable to project CASM on a GAAP basis as the nature and amount of special charges are not determinable at this time.   

32  

The Company’s cost initiative project that began in 2014 has a goal to reduce the Company’s annual costs by $2 billion and generate an incremental $700 million in additional ancillary revenue by the end of 2017. The anticipated savings are comprised of $1 billion in annual fuel savings, based on fuel prices in 2013, and $1 billion of non-fuel savings. In 2015, the Company achieved approximately $555 million in fuel savings and $851 million in non-fuel savings.  

Income Taxes. The Company anticipates its effective tax rate will be approximately 37%, which reflects a more normalized rate after the release of the tax valuation allowance in 2015 and is based on the Company’s relative mix of domestic, foreign and state income tax expense.  

Results of Operations  

In this section, we compare results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 with results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014, and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 with results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013. Non-GAAP financial measures are presented because they provide management and investors with the ability to measure and monitor the Company’s performance on a consistent basis.  

2015 compared to 2014  

Operating Revenue  

The table below illustrates the year-over-year percentage change in the Company’s operating revenues for the years ended December 31 (in millions, except percentage changes):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The table below presents the Company’s selected passenger revenue and selected operating data based on geographic region (regional flights consist primarily of domestic routes):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) See Part II, Item 6 of this report for the definition of these statistics.  

33  

Consolidated passenger revenue in 2015 decreased $977 million, or 2.9%, as compared to 2014 primarily due to a decrease in consolidated yield of 4.3% year-over-year. Yields were impacted by a competitive domestic fare environment, unfavorable foreign currency results due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, international surcharge declines, travel reductions from corporate customers in the energy sector and increased industry capacity in certain regions. The decline in yields was partially offset by a 1.5% year-over-year increase in traffic.  

Operating Expense  

The table below includes data related to the Company’s operating expense for the year ended December 31 (in millions, except percentage changes):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Salaries and related costs increased $778 million, or 8.7%, in 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily due to a $463 million increase in profit sharing costs as a result of improved profitability, higher pay rates driven by new collective bargaining agreements, an increase in medical and dental costs and an increase in pension expense resulting from changes in actuarial assumptions.  

The decrease in aircraft fuel expense was primarily attributable to decreased fuel prices partially offset by losses from fuel hedging activity and a 1.6% increase in capacity. The table below presents the significant changes in aircraft fuel cost per gallon for the year ended December 31 (in millions, except percentage changes):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Depreciation and amortization increased $140 million, or 8.3%, in 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily due to additions in owned property and equipment, specifically related to new aircraft, information technology assets and several aircraft capital lease conversions from operating leases.  

34  

Aircraft maintenance materials and outside repairs decreased $128 million, or 7.2%, in 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily due to a year-over-year decrease in significant airframe maintenance visits as a result of the cyclical timing of these visits, improvements in the efficiency of in-house maintenance programs, a reduced volume of seat and landing gear maintenance and a reduction of flying hours under certain power-by-the-hour engine maintenance agreements, partially offset by increases in expenses related to aircraft reliability projects and Wi-Fi systems maintenance.  

Aircraft rent decreased $129 million or 14.6% in 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily due to lease expirations, the purchase or capital lease conversion of several operating leased aircraft and lower lease renewal rates for certain aircraft.  

The table below presents special items incurred by the Company during the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See Note 16 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information.  

Nonoperating Income (Expense)  

The following table illustrates the year-over-year dollar and percentage changes in the Company’s nonoperating income (expense) (in millions, except percentage changes):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in interest expense of $66 million, or 9.0%, in 2015 as compared to 2014 was primarily due to the prepayment of certain debt issuances and declining balances of other debt, partially offset by interest expense on debt issued for the acquisition of new aircraft.  

Miscellaneous, net included losses of $80 million and $462 million from fuel derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Foreign currency losses were approximately $129 million and $41 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Foreign currency results included $61 million and $10 million of foreign exchange losses for 2015 and 2014, respectively, related to the Company’s cash holdings in Venezuela. Miscellaneous, net for 2015 includes a $134 million special charge related to the write-off of unamortized non-cash debt discounts for the early redemption of the 6% Notes due 2026 (“2026 Notes”) and the 6% Notes due 2028 (“2028 Notes”). 2014 Miscellaneous, net includes a $64 million debt extinguishment charge related to the retirement of the $248 million 6% Convertible Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2030.  

35  

2014 compared to 2013  

Operating Revenue  

The table below illustrates the year-over-year percentage change in the Company’s operating revenues for the years ended December 31 (in millions, except percentage changes):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The table below presents the Company’s selected passenger revenue and selected operating data based on geographic region (regional flights consist primarily of domestic routes):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) See Part II, Item 6 of this report for the definition of these statistics.  

Consolidated passenger revenue in 2014 increased $640 million, or 1.9%, as compared to 2013. This increase was primarily due to an increase in consolidated yield of 1.7% and an increase in average fare per passenger of 2.8%. There was also an increase in capacity and traffic of 0.3% and 0.2%, respectively, as compared to 2013. The 2014 average fare increase was due in part to a strong domestic demand environment and a number of new long-haul routes that generated higher fares than the system average. Also in 2014, the Company improved its revenue management demand forecast process related to close-in bookings which improved yields. 2013 consolidated passenger revenue was negatively impacted by factors including additional competitive capacity in China and the Japanese yen weakening against the U.S. dollar, resulting in lower Pacific yields.  

Cargo revenue increased by $56 million, or 6.3%, in 2014 as compared to 2013, which was primarily due to higher freight volumes and an improvement in mail revenue year-over-year, partially offset by lower yield on freight.  

Other operating revenue decreased $74 million, or 1.7%, in 2014 as compared to 2013, which was primarily due to the Company’s decision to discontinue sales of aircraft fuel to a third party, partially offset by increases in ancillary, MileagePlus and contract services revenue.  

36  

Operating Expense  

The table below includes data related to the Company’s operating expense for the year ended December 31 (in millions, except percentage changes):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in aircraft fuel expense was primarily attributable to decreased fuel prices partially offset by losses from fuel hedge activity and a 0.3% increase in capacity. The table below presents the significant changes in aircraft fuel cost per gallon for the year ended December 31 (in millions, except percentage changes):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Salaries and related costs increased $310 million, or 3.6%, in 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily due to higher pay rates driven by collective bargaining agreements, increased medical and dental costs and costs associated with crew shortages and new crew rest rules, partially offset by lower post-employment benefit costs.  

Landing fees and other rent increased $184 million, or 8.8%, in 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily due to a transition from paying regional carriers for landing fees to paying airports directly. Landing fees also increased due to airport security services and modernization projects at certain airport locations.  

Aircraft rent decreased $53 million, or 5.7%, in 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily due to aircraft lease expirations and terminations of several Boeing 757-200 aircraft leases resulting from the Company’s purchase of the leased aircraft.  

37  

The table below presents special items incurred by UAL during the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See Note 16 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information.  

Nonoperating Income (Expense)  

The following table illustrates the year-over-year dollar and percentage changes in UAL’s nonoperating income (expense) (in millions, except percentage changes):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in interest expense of $48 million, or 6.1%, in 2014 as compared to 2013 was primarily due to the Company’s extinguishment of certain of its debt instruments and the refinancing of certain of its debt instruments at lower interest rates.  

In 2014, Miscellaneous, net included a MTM loss of $462 million from fuel derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting as compared to a gain of $79 million in 2013. Miscellaneous, net also included foreign currency losses of $41 million and $29 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. 2014 Miscellaneous, net includes a $64 million debt extinguishment charge related to the retirement of the $248 million 6% Convertible Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2030.  

United’s nonoperating expense also included a net gain of $19 million associated with marking to market the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities related to agreements that provide for United’s convertible debt to be settled with UAL common stock as compared to a net gain of $70 million in 2013. These net gains and related derivatives are reflected only in the United stand-alone financial statements as they are eliminated at the consolidated level. See Note 9 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had $5.2 billion in unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, an increase of $0.8 billion from December 31, 2014. The Company had its entire commitment capacity of $1.35 billion under the Credit Agreement available for letters of credit or borrowings as of December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had $206 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents, which is primarily collateral for performance bonds, letters of credit and estimated future workers’ compensation claims. We may be required to post significant additional cash collateral to provide security for obligations. Restricted cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2014 totaled $320 million.  

38  

As is the case with many of our principal competitors, we have a high proportion of debt compared to capital. We have a significant amount of fixed obligations, including debt, aircraft leases and financings, leases of airport property and other facilities and pension funding obligations. At December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately $11.8 billion of debt and capital lease obligations, including $1.4 billion that are due within the next 12 months. In addition, we have substantial noncancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines. As of December 31, 2015, our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by approximately $4.6 billion. However, approximately $5.9 billion of our current liabilities are related to our Advance ticket sales and Frequent flyer deferred revenue, both of which largely represent revenue to be recognized for travel in the near future and not actual cash outlays. The deficit in working capital does not have an adverse impact to our cash flows, liquidity or operations. The Company made principal payments of debt and capital lease obligations totaling $2.3 billion in 2015.  

The Company will continue to evaluate opportunities to prepay its debt, including open market repurchases, to reduce its indebtedness and related interest.  

For 2016, the Company expects between $2.7 billion and $2.9 billion of gross capital expenditures. See Notes 11 and 15 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information on commitments.  

As of December 31, 2015, a substantial portion of the Company’s assets, principally aircraft, route authorities and loyalty program intangible assets, was pledged under various loan and other agreements. See Note 11 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information on assets provided as collateral by the Company.  

Although access to the capital markets improved in recent years as evidenced by our financing transactions, we cannot give any assurances that we will be able to obtain additional financing or otherwise access the capital markets in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. We must sustain our profitability and/or access the capital markets to meet our significant long-term debt and capital lease obligations and future commitments for capital expenditures, including the acquisition of aircraft and related spare engines.  

The following is a discussion of the Company’s sources and uses of cash from 2013 through 2015.  

Cash Flows from Operating Activities  

2015 compared to 2014  

Cash flow provided by operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $6.0 billion compared to $2.6 billion in the same period in 2014. The $3.4 billion increase is primarily attributable to an increase of $3.1 billion in income before income taxes and a $0.4 billion increase in non-cash items for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014. Working capital changes reduced cash flow from operations by $0.1 billion year-over-year in 2015 as compared to 2014. The following were significant working capital items in 2015: Cash flow increased by $0.2 billion from the return of hedge collateral net of the impact of changes in fuel derivative positions. Cash flow from other liabilities, including accrued wages, decreased $0.2 billion, which included $0.8 billion in pension contributions offset by $0.7 billion in profit sharing accruals to be paid in 2016. Frequent flyer deferred revenue and advanced purchase of miles decreased $0.2 billion.  

2014 compared to 2013  

Cash flow provided by operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $2.6 billion compared to $1.4 billion in the same period in 2013. The $1.2 billion increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $0.6 billion in income before income taxes and $0.6 billion of changes in working capital items year-over-year in 2014 as compared to 2013. The following were significant working capital items in 2014: Cash flow from advance ticket sales increased by $0.3 billion. Accounts receivable decreased by $0.2 billion mainly due to the timing of settlements with airline partners for interline billing. Cash flow from other liabilities, including accrued  

39  

 wages, decreased $0.2 billion, which included $0.5 billion in pension contributions offset by $0.2 billion in profit sharing accruals. In 2014, cash flow decreased by $0.1 billion from the posting of fuel hedge collateral, net of changes in fuel derivative positions. Accounts payable decreased by $0.3 billion primarily due to the timing of settlements with airline partners for interline billing along with changes in various accruals.  

Cash Flows from Investing Activities  

2015 compared to 2014  

The Company’s capital expenditures were $2.7 billion and $2.0 billion in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Company’s capital expenditures for both years were primarily attributable to the purchase of aircraft, facility and fleet-related costs. In 2015, the Company announced a strategic partnership with Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras S.A. (“Azul”). Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, the Company invested $100 million for an economic stake of approximately five percent in Azul, Brazil’s largest carrier by cities served, which provides a range of customer benefits including codesharing of flights, joint loyalty program participation and expanded connection opportunities on routes between the U.S. and Brazil, a key market for United, in addition to other points in North and South America.  

2014 compared to 2013  

The Company’s capital expenditures were $2.0 billion and $2.2 billion in 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Company’s capital expenditures for both years were primarily attributable to the purchase of aircraft, facility and fleet-related costs.  

Cash Flows from Financing Activities  

Significant financing events in 2015 were as follows:  

Share Repurchases  

The Company used $1.2 billion of cash to purchase 21 million shares of its common stock during 2015 under its share repurchase programs. As of December 31, 2015, the Company has $2.4 billion remaining to spend under its share repurchase program. See Part II, Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” of this report for additional information.  

Debt Issuances  

During 2015, United issued $1.4 billion of debt related to enhanced equipment trust certificate (“EETC”) offerings to finance aircraft. United has received and recorded all of the proceeds from its pass-through trusts as debt as of December 31, 2015.  

In 2015, United borrowed approximately $590 million aggregate principal amount from various financial institutions to finance the purchase of several aircraft delivered in 2015.  

Debt and Capital Lease Principal Payments  

During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company made debt and capital lease principal payments of $2.3 billion, including the following prepayments:  

   •    UAL used cash to repurchase all $321 million par value 2026 Notes.  

   •    UAL used cash to repurchase all $311 million par value 2028 Notes.  

   •    UAL used cash to prepay, at par, $300 million principal amount of its $500 million term loan due September 2021 under the Credit Agreement.  

40  

Financing Activities Not Affecting Cash  

The holders of substantially all of the remaining $202 million principal amount of United’s 4.5% Convertible Notes due 2015 exercised their conversion option resulting in the issuance of 11 million shares of UAL common stock.  

Significant financing events in 2014 were as follows:  

Share Repurchases  

The Company used $320 million of cash to purchase approximately 7 million shares of its common stock under the 2014 Program. See Part II, Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” of this report for additional information.  

Debt Issuances  

During 2014, United issued debt related to three separate EETC offerings to finance new aircraft deliveries, bringing the total issued at year end 2014 pursuant to these three EETC offerings to $2.0 billion. Including the EETC offering in 2013, United recorded $1.8 billion of proceeds as debt during 2014.  

United borrowed a $500 million term loan under the Credit Agreement.  

Debt and Capital Lease Principal Payments  

During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company made debt and capital lease principal payments of $2.6 billion, including the following prepayments:  

   •    UAL retired, at par, $400 million principal balance of its 8% Notes due 2024.  

   •    United used cash to purchase approximately $276 million principal amount of convertible notes and retired the notes.  

   •    United retired, at par, the entire $800 million principal balance of its 6.75% Senior Secured Notes.  

Financing Activities Not Affecting Cash  

UAL amended its revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement increasing the capacity from $1.0 billion to $1.35 billion and establishing the maturity date for $1.315 billion in lender commitments as January 2, 2019.  

UAL issued approximately 17 million shares in exchange for, or conversion of, $260 million of convertible notes and retired the notes.  

Significant financing events in 2013 were as follows:  

Debt Issuances  

During 2013, United issued debt related to three separate EETC offerings to finance new aircraft deliveries, bringing the total issued at year end 2013 pursuant to these three EETC offerings to $1.5 billion. Including the EETC offerings in 2012, United recorded $900 million of proceeds as debt during 2013.  

UAL issued $600 million unsecured Senior Notes.  

United and UAL entered into the Credit Agreement as the borrower and guarantor, respectively. The Company’s Credit Agreement originally consisted of a $900 million term loan due April 1, 2019 and a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility available for drawing until April 1, 2018.  

41  

Debt and Capital Lease Principal Payments  

During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company made debt and capital lease principal payments of $2.3 billion, including the following prepayments:  

   •    The Company used $900 million from the Credit Agreement, together with approximately $300 million of cash to retire the entire principal balance of a $1.2 billion term loan due 2014 that was outstanding under United’s Amended and Restated Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of February 2, 2007.  

   •    United redeemed all of the $400 million aggregate principal amount of its 9.875% Senior Secured Notes due 2013 and $200 million aggregate principal amount of 12.0% Senior Second Lien Notes due 2013.  

   •    United redeemed $303 million aggregate principal amount of EETC notes.  

Financing Activities Not Affecting Cash  

UAL issued approximately 28 million shares of UAL common stock pursuant to agreements that UAL entered into with certain of its securityholders in exchange for approximately $240 million in aggregate principal amount of UAL’s outstanding 6% Convertible Senior Notes held by the holders of these notes. The Company retired the 6% Convertible Senior Notes acquired in the exchange.  

For additional information regarding these Liquidity and Capital Resource matters, see Notes 3, 11, 13 and 14 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. For information regarding non-cash investing and financing activities, see the Company’s statements of consolidated cash flows.  

Credit Ratings. As of the filing date of this report, UAL and United had the following corporate credit ratings:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

*The credit agency does not issue corporate credit ratings for subsidiary entities.  

These credit ratings are below investment grade levels. Downgrades from these rating levels, among other things, could restrict the availability or increase the cost of future financing for the Company.  

Other Liquidity Matters  

Below is a summary of additional liquidity matters. See the indicated notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional details related to these and other matters affecting our liquidity and commitments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Contractual Obligations. The Company’s business is capital intensive, requiring significant amounts of capital to fund the acquisition of assets, particularly aircraft. In the past, the Company has funded the acquisition of aircraft through outright purchase, by issuing debt, by entering into capital or operating leases, or through vendor financings. The Company also often enters into long-term lease commitments with airports to ensure access to terminal, cargo, maintenance and other required facilities.  

42  

The table below provides a summary of the Company’s material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015 (in billions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Long-term debt presented in the Company’s financial statements is net of $145 million of debt discount, premiums and debt issuance costs which are being amortized over the debt terms. Contractual payments are not net of the debt discount, premiums and debt issuance costs. Contractual long-term debt includes $20 million of non-cash obligations as these debt payments are made directly to the creditor by a company that leases one aircraft from United. The creditor’s only recourse to United is repossession of the aircraft.  

 (b) Includes interest portion of capital lease obligations of $71 million in 2016, $55 million in 2017, $45 million in 2018, $39 million in 2019, $37 million in 2020 and $309 million thereafter. Future interest payments on variable rate debt are estimated using estimated future variable rates based on a yield curve.  

 (c) Represents our estimates of future minimum noncancelable commitments under our CPAs and does not include the portion of the underlying obligations for aircraft and facility rent that is disclosed as part of aircraft and nonaircraft operating leases. Amounts also exclude a portion of United’s capital lease obligation recorded for certain of its CPAs. See Note 13 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for the significant assumptions used to estimate the payments.  

 (d) Amounts represent postretirement benefit payments, net of subsidy receipts, through 2025. Benefit payments approximate plan contributions as plans are substantially unfunded.  

 (e) Represents estimate of the minimum funding requirements as determined by government regulations for United’s material pension plans. Amounts are subject to change based on numerous assumptions, including the performance of assets in the plan and bond rates. See Critical Accounting Policies, below, for a discussion of our current year assumptions regarding United’s pension plans.  

 (f) Represents contractual commitments for firm order aircraft and spare engines only and noncancelable commitments to purchase goods and services, primarily information technology support. In January 2016, UAL entered into a purchase agreement amendment with Boeing for a firm narrowbody aircraft order of 40 Boeing 737NG aircraft and the table above is adjusted to include that impact. See Note 15 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for a discussion of our purchase commitments.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. An off-balance sheet arrangement is any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement involving an unconsolidated entity under which a company has (1) made guarantees, (2) a retained or a contingent interest in transferred assets, (3) an obligation under derivative instruments classified as equity, or (4) any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development arrangements. The Company’s primary off-balance sheet arrangements include operating leases, which are summarized in the contractual obligations table in Contractual Obligations, above, and certain municipal bond obligations, as discussed below.  

As of December 31, 2015, United had cash collateralized $70 million of letters of credit. United also had $437 million of performance bonds relating to various real estate, customs and aircraft financing obligations at December 31, 2015. Most of the letters of credit have evergreen clauses and are expected to be renewed on an annual basis and the performance bonds have expiration dates through 2019.  

As of December 31, 2015, United is the guarantor of approximately $1.9 billion in aggregate principal amount of tax-exempt special facilities revenue bonds and interest thereon. These bonds, issued by various airport municipalities, are payable solely from rentals paid under long-term agreements with the respective governing  

43  

 bodies. The leasing arrangements associated with a majority of these obligations are accounted for as operating leases. The leasing arrangements associated with a portion of these obligations are accounted for as capital leases. The annual lease payments for those obligations accounted for as operating leases are included in the operating lease payments in the contractual obligations table above.  

EETCs. In November 2015 and August 2014, United completed two separate EETC offerings for a total principal amount of $1.5 billion. United has received and recorded all of the proceeds from these offerings as debt as of December 31, 2015. See Notes 11 and 14 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information on EETC pass-through trusts and variable interest entity consideration.  

Increased Cost Provisions. See Note 15 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information on increased cost provisions related to the Company’s debt.  

Fuel Consortia. United participates in numerous fuel consortia with other air carriers at major airports to reduce the costs of fuel distribution and storage. Interline agreements govern the rights and responsibilities of the consortia members and provide for the allocation of the overall costs to operate the consortia based on usage. The consortia (and in limited cases, the participating carriers) have entered into long-term agreements to lease certain airport fuel storage and distribution facilities that are typically financed through tax-exempt bonds (either special facilities lease revenue bonds or general airport revenue bonds), issued by various local municipalities. In general, each consortium lease agreement requires the consortium to make lease payments in amounts sufficient to pay the maturing principal and interest payments on the bonds. As of December 31, 2015, approximately $1.3 billion principal amount of such bonds were secured by significant fuel facility leases in which United participates, as to which United and each of the signatory airlines has provided indirect guarantees of the debt. As of December 31, 2015, the Company’s contingent exposure was approximately $224 million principal amount of such bonds based on its recent consortia participation. The Company’s contingent exposure could increase if the participation of other air carriers decreases. The guarantees will expire when the tax-exempt bonds are paid in full, which ranges from 2017 to 2041. The Company did not record a liability at the time these indirect guarantees were made. See Note 15 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information related to the Company’s fuel consortia.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are affected by significant judgments and uncertainties which potentially could result in materially different accounting under different assumptions and conditions. The Company has prepared the financial statements in conformity with GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company has identified the following critical accounting policies that impact the preparation of the financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition. The Company records passenger ticket sales and tickets sold by other airlines for use on United as passenger revenue when the transportation is provided or upon estimated breakage. The value of unused passenger tickets is included in current liabilities as Advance ticket sales. Tickets sold by other airlines are recorded at the estimated values to be billed to the other airlines. Differences between amounts billed and the actual amounts may be rejected and rebilled or written off if the amount recorded was different from the original estimate. When necessary, the Company records a reserve against our interline billings and payables if historical experience indicates that these amounts are different. Non-refundable tickets generally expire on the date of the intended flight, unless the date is extended by notification from the customer on or before the intended flight date.  

Fees charged in association with changes or extensions to non-refundable tickets are recorded as other revenue at the time the fee is incurred. The fare on the changed ticket, including any additional collection of fare, is deferred and recognized in accordance with our transportation revenue recognition policy at the time the transportation is provided. Change fees related to non-refundable tickets are considered a separate transaction from the air transportation because they represent a charge for the Company’s additional service to modify a previous sale. Therefore, the pricing of the change fee and the initial customer order are separately determined and represent distinct earnings processes.  

44  

The Company records an estimate of breakage revenue on the flight date for tickets that will expire unused. These estimates are based on the evaluation of actual historical results and forecasted trends. Refundable tickets expire after one year from the date of issuance.  

In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) amended the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and created a new Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This amendment prescribes that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The amendment supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and most industry-specific guidance throughout the Industry Topics of the Codification. The amendment will become effective for the Company’s annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Under the new standard, certain airline ancillary fees directly related to passenger revenue tickets, such as airline change fees and baggage fees, are likely to no longer be considered distinct performance obligations separate from the passenger travel component. In addition, the change fees which were previously recognized when received, will likely be recognized when transportation is provided. The Company is evaluating other impacts on its consolidated financial statements.  

Frequent Flyer Accounting. The Company’s MileagePlus program is designed to increase customer loyalty. Program participants earn miles by flying on United and certain other participating airlines. Program participants can also earn miles through purchases from other non-airline partners that participate in the Company’s loyalty program. We sell miles to these partners, which include credit card issuers, retail merchants, hotels, car rental companies and our participating airline partners. Miles can be redeemed for free (other than taxes and government imposed fees), discounted or upgraded air travel and non-travel awards. The Company records its obligation for future award redemptions using a deferred revenue model.  

In the case of the sale of air services, the Company recognizes a portion of the ticket sales as revenue when the air transportation occurs and defers a portion of the ticket sale representing the value of the related miles as a multiple-deliverable revenue arrangement. The miles are recorded in Frequent flyer deferred revenue on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet and recognized into revenue when the transportation is provided.  

The Company determines the estimated selling price of air transportation and miles as if each element is sold on a separate basis. The total consideration from each ticket sale is then allocated to each of these elements individually on a pro rata basis.  

The Company’s estimated selling price of miles is based on an equivalent ticket value less fulfillment discount, which incorporates the expected redemption of miles, as the best estimate of selling price for these miles. The equivalent ticket value is based on the prior 12 months’ weighted average equivalent ticket value of similar fares as those used to settle award redemptions while taking into consideration such factors as redemption pattern, cabin class, loyalty status and geographic region. The estimated selling price of miles is adjusted by a fulfillment discount that considers a number of factors, including redemption patterns of various customer groups.  

United has a significant contract to sell MileagePlus miles to its co-branded credit card partner, Chase. United identified the following significant revenue elements in the Co-Brand Agreement: the air transportation element represented by the value of the mile (generally resulting from its redemption for future air transportation and whose fair value is described above); use of the United brand and access to MileagePlus member lists; advertising; and other travel related benefits.  

The fair value of the elements is determined using management’s estimated selling price of each element. The objective of using the estimated selling price based methodology is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. Accordingly, we determine our best estimate of selling price by considering multiple inputs and methods including, but not limited to, discounted cash flows, brand value, volume discounts, published selling prices, number of miles awarded and number of miles redeemed. The Company estimated the selling prices and volumes over the term of the Co-Brand Agreement in order to determine the allocation of proceeds to each of the multiple elements to be delivered. We also evaluate volumes on an annual basis, which may result in a change in the allocation of estimated selling price on a prospective basis.  

45  

The Company records passenger revenue related to the air transportation element when the transportation is delivered. The other elements are generally recognized as Other operating revenue when earned.  

The Company accounts for miles sold and awarded that will never be redeemed by program members, which we refer to as breakage. The Company reviews its breakage estimates annually based upon the latest available information regarding redemption and expiration patterns. Miles expire after 18 months of member account inactivity. The Company’s estimate of the expected expiration of miles requires significant management judgment. Current and future changes to expiration assumptions or to the expiration policy, or to program rules and program redemption opportunities, may result in material changes to the deferred revenue balance as well as recognized revenues from the programs.  

The following table summarizes information related to the Company’s Frequent flyer deferred revenue liability:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Effective March 1, 2015, the Company modified its MileagePlus program for most tickets from a model in which members earned redeemable miles based on distance traveled to one based on ticket price (including base fare and carrier imposed surcharges). Members now earn between five and eleven miles per dollar spent based on their MileagePlus status. The updated program enhances the rewards for customers who spend more with United and gives them improved mileage-earning opportunities. This modification had no material impact to the Frequent flyer deferred revenue on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.  

Long-Lived Assets. The net book value of operating property and equipment for the Company was $22 billion and $19 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. The assets’ recorded value is impacted by a number of accounting policy elections, including the estimation of useful lives and residual values and, when necessary, the recognition of asset impairment charges.  

The Company records assets acquired, including aircraft, at acquisition cost. Depreciable life is determined through economic analysis, such as reviewing existing fleet plans, obtaining appraisals and comparing estimated lives to other airlines that operate similar fleets. As aircraft technology has improved, useful life has increased and the Company has generally estimated the lives of those aircraft to be 30 years. Residual values are estimated based on historical experience with regard to the sale of both aircraft and spare parts and are established in conjunction with the estimated useful lives of the related fleets. Residual values are based on when the aircraft are acquired and typically reflect asset values that have not reached the end of their physical life. Both depreciable lives and residual values are revised periodically as facts and circumstances arise to recognize changes in the Company’s fleet plan and other relevant information. A one-year increase in the average depreciable life of the Company’s flight equipment would reduce annual depreciation expense on flight equipment by approximately $50 million.  

The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets and intangible assets subject to amortization whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. For purposes of this testing, the Company has generally identified the aircraft fleet type as the lowest level of identifiable cash flows for purposes of testing aircraft for impairment. An impairment charge is recognized when the asset’s carrying value exceeds its net undiscounted future cash flows and its fair market value. The amount of the charge is the difference between the asset’s carrying value and fair market value.  

Defined Benefit Plan Accounting. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans for eligible employees and retirees. The most critical assumptions impacting our defined benefit pension plan obligations and expenses are the weighted average discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets.  

United’s pension plans’ under-funded status was $1.5 billion at December 31, 2015. Funding requirements for tax-qualified defined benefit pension plans are determined by government regulations. In 2016, we anticipate contributing at least $400 million to our pension plans. The fair value of the plans’ assets was $3.0 billion at December 31, 2015.  

46  

When calculating pension expense for 2016, the Company assumed that its plans’ assets would generate a long-term rate of return of approximately 7.0%. The expected long-term rate of return assumption was developed based on historical experience and input from the trustee managing the plans’ assets. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on a target allocation of assets, which is based on a goal of earning the highest rate of return while maintaining risk at acceptable levels. Our projected long-term rate of return reflects the active management of our plans’ assets. The plans strive to have assets sufficiently diversified so that adverse or unexpected results from one security class will not have an unduly detrimental impact on the entire portfolio. Plan fiduciaries regularly review actual asset allocation and the pension plans’ investments are periodically rebalanced to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate.  

The defined benefit pension plans’ assets consist of return generating investments and risk mitigating investments which are held through direct ownership or through interests in common collective trusts. Return generating investments include primarily equity securities, fixed-income securities and alternative investments (e.g. private equity and hedge funds). Risk mitigating investments include primarily U.S. government and investment grade corporate fixed-income securities. The allocation of assets was as follows at December 31, 2015:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on plan assets decreases. Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by 50 basis points (from 7.0% to 6.5%) would increase estimated 2016 pension expense by approximately $15 million.  

Future pension obligations for United’s plans were discounted using a weighted average rate of 4.58% at December 31, 2015. The Company selected the discount rate for substantially all of its plans by using a hypothetical portfolio of high quality bonds at December 31, 2015 that would provide the necessary cash flows to match the projected benefit payments.  

The pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the discount rate by 50 basis points (from 4.58% to 4.08%) would increase the pension liability at December 31, 2015 by approximately $477 million and increase the estimated 2016 pension expense by approximately $55 million.  

Future changes in plan asset returns, plan provisions, assumed discount rates, pension funding law and various other factors related to the participants in our pension plans will impact our future pension expense and liabilities. We cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future.  

Actuarial gains or losses are triggered by changes in assumptions or experience that differ from the original assumptions. Under the applicable accounting standards for defined benefit pension plans, those gains and losses are not required to be recognized currently as pension benefit expense, but instead may be deferred as part of accumulated other comprehensive income and amortized into expense over the average remaining service life of the covered active employees. All gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income are amortized to expense over the remaining years of service of the covered active employees. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had unrecognized actuarial losses for pension benefit plans of $844 million and $982 million, respectively, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.  

Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Accounting. United’s postretirement plan provides certain health care benefits, primarily in the United States, to retirees and eligible dependents, as well as certain life insurance  

47  

 benefits to certain retirees reflected as “Other Benefits.” United also has retiree medical programs that permit retirees who meet certain age and service requirements to continue medical coverage between retirement and Medicare eligibility. Eligible employees are required to pay a portion of the costs of their retiree medical benefits, which in some cases may be offset by accumulated unused sick time at the time of their retirement. Plan benefits are subject to co-payments, deductibles, and other limits as described in the plans.  

The Company accounts for other postretirement benefits by recognizing the difference between plan assets and obligations, or the plan’s funded status, in its financial statements. Other postretirement benefit expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees’ approximate service periods and is generally calculated independently of funding decisions or requirements. United has not been required to pre-fund its plan obligations, which has resulted in a significant net obligation, as discussed below. The Company’s benefit obligation was $2.0 billion and $2.1 billion for the other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  

The calculation of other postretirement benefit expense and obligations requires the use of a number of assumptions, including the assumed discount rate for measuring future payment obligations and the health care cost trend rate. The Company determines the appropriate discount rate for each of the plans based on current rates on high quality corporate bonds that would generate the cash flow necessary to pay plan benefits when due. The Company’s weighted average discount rate to determine its benefit obligations as of December 31, 2015 was 4.49%, as compared to 4.07% for December 31, 2014. The health care cost trend rate assumed for 2015 was 7.00%, declining to 5.0% in 2023, as compared to assumed trend rate for 2016 of 6.75%, declining to 5.0% in 2023. A 1% increase in assumed health care trend rates would increase the Company’s total service and interest cost for the year ended December 31, 2015 by $13 million; whereas, a 1% decrease in assumed health care trend rates would decrease the Company’s total service and interest cost for the year ended December 31, 2015 by $11 million. A one percentage point decrease in the weighted average discount rate would increase the Company’s postretirement benefit liability by approximately $227 million and increase the estimated 2015 benefits expense by approximately $12 million.  

Actuarial gains or losses are triggered by changes in assumptions or experience that differ from the original assumptions and prior service credits result from a retroactive reduction in benefits due under the plans. Under the applicable accounting standards for postretirement welfare benefit plans, actuarial gains and losses and prior service credits are not required to be recognized currently, but instead may be deferred as part of accumulated other comprehensive income and amortized into expense over the average remaining service life of the covered active employees or the average life expectancy of inactive participants. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had unrecognized actuarial gains for postretirement welfare benefit plans of $236 million and $233 million, respectively, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.  

Income Taxes. The Company’s income tax benefit was $3.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015. A discrete tax benefit of $3.1 billion for the reduction to the U.S. net federal and state deferred tax asset valuation allowance was included in the income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2015.  

During 2015, after considering all positive and negative evidence and the four sources of taxable income, the Company concluded that its deferred income tax assets are more likely than not to be realized. In evaluating the likelihood of utilizing the Company’s net federal and state deferred tax assets, the significant relevant factors that the Company considered are: (1) its recent history and forecasted profitability; (2) growth in the U.S. and global economies; and (3) future impact of taxable temporary differences. Although the Company was not in a three-year cumulative loss position at December 31, 2014, management concluded that the low level of cumulative pre-tax income, coupled with the Company’s history of operating losses resulted in a determination that a valuation allowance was still necessary. We considered past profitability and future expectations of profitability to determine whether it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient taxable income to realize our net deferred tax assets. Management placed significant weight on past performance (i.e., losses or near break-even results in 2009 to 2013) as it is more objectively verifiable than projections of future taxable income. However, during 2015, the Company’s pre-tax profit of $4.2 billion benefited from lower oil prices and improved efficiency that resulted in significant taxable income. Additionally, based upon current projection of future  

48  

 earnings, the Company evaluated the NOLs expiration periods and change in ownership limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and determined the NOLs would be realized before expiring beginning in 2025. Therefore, the Company released almost all of its valuation allowance in 2015, resulting in a $3.1 billion benefit in its provision for income taxes. The valuation allowance recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”) in prior years was released through the income statement and resulted in remaining debits within AOCI of $285 million and $180 million related to pension and derivatives, respectively, which will not be recognized into income tax expense until either the plans are exited or the Company no longer has any outstanding derivatives.  

The Company has retained a valuation allowance of $48 million against certain state and local NOLs and credit carryforwards at the end of 2015. The Company expects these NOLs and credits will expire unused due to limited carryforward periods. The ability to utilize these state NOLs and credits will be evaluated on a quarterly basis to determine if there are any significant events or any prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that would affect the Company’s ability to realize these deferred tax assets.  

The Company has a net deferred tax asset totaling $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2015 that relates primarily to its federal and state NOL carryforwards. The federal and state NOL carryforwards relate to prior years’ NOLs, which may be used to reduce tax liabilities in future years. These tax benefits are mostly attributable to federal pre-tax NOL carryforwards of $8.0 billion for UAL. If not utilized, these federal pre-tax NOLs will expire as follows (in billions): $2.1 in 2025, $2.0 in 2026, $1.4 in 2027 and $2.5 after 2028. In addition, the majority of tax benefits of the state net operating losses of $103 million for UAL will expire over a five to 20-year period. Additionally, the Company has $232 million of alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards which do not expire.  

Forward-Looking Information  

Certain statements throughout Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report are forward-looking and thus reflect the Company’s current expectations and beliefs with respect to certain current and future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are and will be subject to many risks and uncertainties relating to the Company’s operations and business environment that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Words such as “expects,” “will,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “indicates,” “believes,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “goals” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  

Additionally, forward-looking statements include statements which do not relate solely to historical facts, such as statements which identify uncertainties or trends, discuss the possible future effects of current known trends or uncertainties or which indicate that the future effects of known trends or uncertainties cannot be predicted, guaranteed or assured. All forward-looking statements in this report are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this report. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.  

The Company’s actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements due to numerous factors including, without limitation, the following: its ability to comply with the terms of its various financing arrangements; the costs and availability of financing; its ability to maintain adequate liquidity; its ability to execute its operational plans and revenue-generating initiatives, including optimizing its revenue; its ability to control its costs, including realizing benefits from its resource optimization efforts, cost reduction initiatives and fleet replacement programs; its ability to utilize its net operating losses; its ability to attract and retain customers; demand for transportation in the markets in which it operates; an outbreak of a disease that affects travel demand or travel behavior; demand for travel and the impact that global economic conditions have on customer travel patterns; excessive taxation and the inability to offset future taxable income; general economic conditions (including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, investment or credit market conditions, crude oil  

49  

 prices, costs of aircraft fuel and energy refining capacity in relevant markets); economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally; its ability to cost-effectively hedge against increases in the price of aircraft fuel; any potential realized or unrealized gains or losses related to fuel or currency hedging programs; the effects of any hostilities, act of war or terrorist attack; the ability of other air carriers with whom the Company has alliances or partnerships to provide the services contemplated by the respective arrangements with such carriers; disruptions to its regional network; the costs and availability of aviation and other insurance; industry consolidation or changes in airline alliances; competitive pressures on pricing and demand; its capacity decisions and the capacity decisions of its competitors; U.S. or foreign governmental legislation, regulation and other actions (including open skies agreements and environmental regulations); the impact of regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks; the impact of any management changes; our CEO’s health prognosis and return to work on a full-time basis; labor costs; its ability to maintain satisfactory labor relations and the results of the collective bargaining agreement process with its union groups; any disruptions to operations due to any potential actions by its labor groups; weather conditions; and other risks and uncertainties set forth under Part I, Item 1A., Risk Factors, of this report, as well as other risks and uncertainties set forth from time to time in the reports the Company files with the SEC.  

 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.