PART I   

  Item 1.    Business    

 The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.  

 About Us  

 We are one of the world’s premier advertising and marketing services companies. Our agency brands deliver custom marketing solutions to many of the world’s largest marketers. Our companies cover the spectrum of marketing disciplines and specialties, from consumer advertising and direct marketing to mobile and search engine marketing.  

 The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency and its client to long-term, fully-integrated campaigns created by a group of our companies working together on behalf of a client. With offices in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region or align work globally across all major world markets.  

 The role of the holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet our clients’ needs. Based in New York City, Interpublic sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, establishes financial management and operational controls, guides personnel policy, conducts investor relations and initiates, manages and approves mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide limited centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, marketing information retrieval and analysis, legal services, real estate expertise, travel services, recruitment aid, employee benefits and executive compensation management.  

 To keep our company well-positioned, we support our agencies’ initiatives to expand their high-growth capabilities and build their offerings in key developing markets. When appropriate, we also develop relationships with companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies and the programs they are developing for clients. In addition, we look for opportunities within our company to modernize operations through mergers, strategic alliances and the development of internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration.  

 Market Strategy  

 We have taken several strategic steps in recent years to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market. We operate in a media landscape that has vastly changed over the last few years. Media markets continue to fragment and clients face an increasingly complex consumer culture.  

 To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have invested in creative talent in high-growth areas and have realigned a number of our capabilities to meet market demand. At our McCann Worldgroup unit, we have continued to invest in talent and in upgrading the group’s integrated marketing services offering at MRM, Momentum and McCann Healthcare. We combined accountable marketing and consumer advertising agencies to form the unique global offering Draftfcb. And at our marketing services group, Constituency Management Group (“CMG”), we continue to strengthen our public relations and events marketing specialists.  

 We have also taken a unique approach to our media offering by aligning our largest media assets with global brand agencies. This approach ensures that the ideas we develop for clients work across new media as well as traditional channels. In 2007, this differentiated media strategy gained significant traction in the marketplace.  

 4   
 The digital component of our business continues to evolve and is increasingly vital to all of our agencies. In order to grow with our clients, we have accelerated our investment in talent, professional training and technology throughout the organization. This reflects our strongly held belief that digital marketing is not a silo. Instead, digital capabilities must reside in all of our assets. For example, our public relations companies increasingly use blogs and social networking sites to influence consumer opinion, while our special events companies use digital kiosks and website surveys to gauge audience response. Recruiting and developing digitally conversant talent at all our agencies and in all marketing disciplines is therefore a priority and an area where we must be willing to invest. Strong, multi-channel talent is vital if we are to continue building long-term relationships with our clients.  

 Where necessary, we have acquired or built specialty digital assets, such as Reprise Media (search engine marketing), The Interpublic Emerging Media Lab, and Ansible (mobile marketing), to meet the changing needs of our clients. R/GA, a stand-alone digital agency, is an industry leader in the development of award-winning interactive campaigns for global clients. All of these specialty assets have unique capabilities and serve as key digital partners to many of our agencies within the group.  

 Likewise, we continue to look for strategic investments that give us a leadership position in emerging markets. Recent investments in India, where we operate three leading agency networks, and Brazil give our clients a strong foot-hold in these high-growth developing markets. Our partner in Russia is the acknowledged advertising leader in the country. In China, we continue to invest in our existing companies in the market, building on our decades-long commercial history.  

 We believe that our market strategy and offerings can improve our organic revenue growth and operating income margin, with our ultimate objective to be fully competitive with our industry peer group on both measures. To further improve our operating margin we continue to focus on actively managing staff costs in non-revenue supporting roles; improving financial systems and back-office processing; reducing organizational complexity and rationalizing our portfolio by divesting non-core and underperforming businesses; and improving our real estate utilization.  

 Our Offering  

 Interpublic is home to some of the world’s best known and most innovative communications specialists. We have three global brands that provide integrated, large-scale solutions for clients: McCann Worldgroup (“McCann”), Draftfcb, and Lowe Worldwide (“Lowe”), as well as our domestic integrated agencies and media agencies.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 5   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Interpublic lists approximately 90 companies on our website’s “Company Finder” tool, with descriptions and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit www.interpublic.com. Information on our website is not part of this report.  

 Financial Reporting Segments  

 We have two reportable segments: Integrated Agency Network (“IAN”), which is comprised of McCann, Draftfcb and Lowe, our media agencies and our leading stand-alone agencies, and CMG, which is comprised of the bulk of our specialist marketing service offerings. We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  

 Principal Markets  

 Our agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. We provide services for clients whose businesses are broadly international in scope, as well as for clients whose businesses are limited to a single country or a small number of countries. The U.S., Europe (excluding the U.K.), the U.K., Asia Pacific and Latin America represented 55.7%, 16.5%, 9.0%, 8.9% and 4.8% of our total revenue, respectively, in 2007. For further discussion concerning revenues and long-lived assets on a geographical basis for each of the last three years, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Sources of Revenue  

 Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of advertising programs in various media and the planning and execution of other marketing and communications programs. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated and accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the basis on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. Our client contracts are complex arrangements that may include provisions for incentive compensation and govern vendor rebates and credits. Our largest clients are multinational entities and, as such, we often provide services to these clients out of multiple offices and across various agencies. In arranging for such services to be provided, we may enter into global, regional and local agreements.  

 Revenues for creation, planning and placement of advertising are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative and/or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided, and are usually derived from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net  

 6   
 rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which is either retained in total or shared with the client depending on the nature of the services agreement.  

 We pay the media charges with respect to contracts for advertising time or space that we place on behalf of our clients. To reduce our risk from a client’s non-payment, we typically pay media charges only after we have received funds from our clients. Generally, we act as the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor. In some instances we agree with the media provider that we will only be liable to pay the media after the client has paid us for the media charges.  

 We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and entertainment marketing and corporate and brand identity services.  

 Our revenue is directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our clients and tends to be higher in the second half of the calendar year as a result of the holiday season and lower in the first half as a result of the post-holiday slow-down in client activity.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Depending on the terms of the client contract, fees for services performed can be recognized in three principal ways: proportional performance, straight-line (or monthly basis) or completed contract. Fee revenue recognized on a completed contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our contracts end at December 31. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our revenue recognition accounting policies.  

 Clients  

 One of the benefits of the holding company structure is that our agencies can work with a variety of clients from competing sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 26% of revenue in 2007 and 2006. Based on revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, our largest clients were General Motors Corporation, Microsoft, Johnson & Johnson, Unilever and Verizon. While the loss of the entire business of any one of our largest clients might have a material adverse effect upon our business, we believe that it is unlikely that the entire business of any of these clients would be lost at the same time. This is because we represent several different brands or divisions of each of these clients in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency systems. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to a competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget at any time.  

 Personnel  

 As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 43,000 persons, of whom approximately 19,000 were employed in the U.S. Because of the service character of the advertising and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success. There is keen competition for qualified employees.  

 7   
 Available Information  

 Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, will be made available, free of charge, at our website at http://www.interpublic.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC.  

 Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee are available free of charge on our website at http://www.interpublic.com, or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Secretary. Information on our website is not part of this report.  

  Item 1A.    Risk Factors