Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

 In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks related to interest rates and foreign currency rates. From time to time, we use derivatives, pursuant to established guidelines and policies, to manage some portion of these risks. Derivative instruments utilized in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes.  

 Interest Rates  

 Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 85% of our debt obligations bore interest at fixed interest rates. Accordingly, assuming the fixed-rate debt is not refinanced, there would be no impact on interest expense or cash flow from either a 10% increase or decrease in market rates of interest. However, there would be an impact on the fair market value of the debt, as the fair market value of debt is sensitive to changes in interest rates. For 2007, the fair market value of the debt obligations would decrease by $18.4 if market rates were to increase by 10% and would increase by $19.4 if market rates were to decrease by 10%. For 2006, the fair market value of the debt obligations would decrease by $28.8 if market rates were to increase by 10% and would increase by $29.5 if market rates were to decrease by 10%. For that portion of the debt that bore interest at variable rates, based on outstanding amounts and rates as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, net interest expense and cash out-flow would increase or decrease by approximately $2.0 in each year if market rates were to increase or decrease by 10%. Interest rate swaps have been used to manage the mix of our fixed and floating rate debt obligations. However, we currently have none outstanding.  

 Foreign Currencies  

 We face translation and transaction risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Amounts invested in our foreign operations are translated into U.S. Dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the stockholders’ equity section of our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and pay expenses in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, mitigating transaction risk. Since the functional currency of our foreign operations is generally the local currency, foreign currency translation of the balance sheet is reflected as a component of stockholders’ equity and does not impact operating results. Since we report revenues and expenses in U.S. Dollars, changes in exchange rates may either positively or negatively affect our consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in U.S. Dollars) from foreign operations. Currency transaction gains or losses arising from transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are included in results of operations and were not significant in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. We have not entered into a material amount of foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  

 Derivatives  

 The terms of the 4.50% Notes include two embedded derivative instruments and the terms of our 4.75% Notes, 4.25% Notes and our Series B Preferred Stock each include one embedded derivative instrument. The fair value of these derivatives on December 31, 2007 was negligible. In addition, we have entered into operating leases in a foreign country with payments that are payable in the U.S. dollar or its equivalent dollar value in that country’s currency and future rent increases are based on the U.S. inflation rate according to the Consumer Price Index. As such, these leases contain an embedded foreign currency derivative and we have recorded a long-term asset on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The changes in value of this asset, which are negligible, have been recorded as other income or expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.  

 40   

  Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data