PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Fastenal Company (“Fastenal” and, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as Fastenal or by terms such as we, our, or us) began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1968. As of December 31, 2008, we had 2,311 store locations located in the United States (50 states), Puerto Rico, Canada (8 provinces), Mexico (14 states), Singapore, China, and The Netherlands, and employed 9,428 people at these store locations. In addition, there were 4,206 people employed in various support positions. These support roles consisted of distribution and manufacturing (2,709 people) and administrative and sales support (1,497 people).  

We sell industrial and construction supplies in a wholesale and retail fashion. As of December 31, 2008 these industrial and construction supplies were grouped into ten product lines described further below. Our Internet address for corporate and investor information is www.fastenal.com. The information contained on this website or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report.  

We operated 14 distribution centers in North America as of December 31, 2008 from which we distribute products to our store and in-plant locations.  

Development of the Business  

Fastenal began in 1967 with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded fasteners to customers in small, medium-sized, and, in subsequent years, large cities. We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer our customers a full line of products at convenient locations and to the high quality of our employees.  

We opened our first store in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a population of approximately 25,000. The following table shows our consolidated net sales for each fiscal year during the last ten years and the number of our store locations at the end of each of the last ten years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

3  

Table of Contents 

As of December 31, we operated store locations in:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We have closed only 19 stores in our history, and three of these locations were subsequently reopened when the expansion of our product line or the expansion of our distribution network improved their profitability.  

We select new locations for our stores based on their proximity to our distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for manufacturing and construction. Historically, we have disclosed that we intend to continue opening new store locations and currently expect the rate of new store openings to be approximately 7% to 10% per year (calculated on the ending number of stores in the previous year). However, given the recent economic slowdown, we are uncertain regarding this range for 2009.  

We stock all new stores with inventory drawn from all of our product lines. Subsequent to opening, store personnel may supplement the inventory offering to customize the selection to the needs of our local customer base.  

We currently have several versions of store locations. The majority of our stores operate under our ‘expected inventory’ format. This format was formerly referred to as the CSP (or Customer Service Project) format. In June 2005, we disclosed our intention to convert locations to the CSP2 format. The CSP2 store model represented an expansion of the core stocking items and sales personnel in an existing store with the goal of driving additional product sales to existing customers, target customers, and specific geographic areas within established markets. During the third quarter of 2007, we chose to modify the CSP2 expansion from a ‘one size fits all’ approach to an ‘a la carte’ approach. This emphasizes inventory expansion based on local customer demographics and the product knowledge of our local sales force. Consistent with our operating philosophy, we intend to continue identifying products and store display themes to position our stores to the Fastenal goal of being ‘the best industrial and construction supplier in each local market in which we operate’.  

4  

Table of Contents 

We believe, based on the demographics of the marketplace in North America, that there is sufficient potential in this geographic area to support at least 3,500 total stores. Many of the new store locations may be in cities in which we currently operate. Fastenal has not operated outside of North America long enough to assess the market potential of those markets.  

In addition to the store types discussed above, we also operate strategic account stores, strategic account sites, and “in-plant” sites. A strategic account store is a unique location that sells to multiple large customers (we include these in our store count). A strategic account site is essentially the same, but it typically operates out of an existing store location, rather than a unique location; therefore, it is not included in our store count. An “in-plant” site is a selling unit located in or near a customer’s facility that sells product solely to that customer. “In-plant” sites are not included in the store count numbers as they represent a customer subset of a store.  

We opened the following stores in the last five years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We plan to open additional stores outside of the United States in the future. The stores located outside the United States contributed approximately 8% of our consolidated net sales in 2008 with approximately 74% of this amount attributable to our Canadian operations.  

No assurance can be given that any of the expansion plans described above will be achieved, or that new store locations, once opened, will be profitable.  

It has been our experience that near-term profitability has been adversely affected by the opening of new store locations. This adverse effect is due to the start-up costs and the time necessary to generate a customer base. A new store generates its sales from direct sales calls, a slow process involving repeated contacts. As a result of this process, sales volume builds slowly and it typically requires ten to twelve months for a new store to achieve its first profitable month. Of the 53 stores opened in the first quarter of 2008, 24 were profitable in the fourth quarter of 2008.  

5  

Table of Contents 

The data in the following table shows the growth in the average sales of our stores from 2007 to 2008 based on the age of each store. The stores opened in 2008 contributed approximately $31,917 (or approximately 1.4%) of our consolidated net sales in 2008, with the remainder coming from stores opened prior to 2008.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1  The average sales include sales of stores open for less than the full fiscal year.  

  2  We closed one store in this category during 2008. The 2008 average is calculated assuming the closed store existed half of the year.  

  3  We closed one store in this category during 2007. The 2007 average is calculated assuming the closed store existed half of the year.  

  4  We closed two stores in this category during 2008. The 2008 average is calculated assuming the closed stores existed half of the year.  

As of December 31, 2008, we operated distribution centers in or near Winona, Minnesota; Indianapolis, Indiana; Dallas, Texas; Atlanta, Georgia; Scranton, Pennsylvania; Modesto, California; Seattle, Washington; Akron, Ohio; Salt Lake City, Utah; Greensboro, North Carolina; Kansas City, Kansas; Toronto, Ontario (Canada); Edmonton, Alberta (Canada); and Monterrey, Nuevo Leon (Mexico). These 14 distribution centers give us over 2.6 million square feet of distribution capacity. These distribution centers are located so as to permit twice-a-week to five times-a-week deliveries to our stores using our trucks and overnight delivery by surface common carrier. Approximately 76% of our stores receive deliveries five times-a-week, with 80% of these deliveries arriving by 7:00 a.m. local time. As the number of stores increases, we intend to add new distribution centers.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Our Information Systems department is responsible for developing, implementing and maintaining computer based technology used to support business functions within Fastenal. Corporate, e-Business and distribution center systems are primarily supported from a central location(s), while each store uses a locally installed Point-Of-Sale (POS) system. The systems consist of both customized and purchased software. A dedicated Wide Area Network (WAN) is used to provide connectivity between systems and authorized users.  

Trademarks and Service Marks  

We conduct business under various trademarks and service marks, including: Fastenal®, FAS-N-IT®, FNL®, Blackstone®, Rock River™, Blue Global®, Fastenal Racing®, FNL G9®, Equiprite™, Clean Choice™, Bodyguard™, Profitter™, Dynaflo™, FMT™, Titan™ and PowerPhase™. We utilize a variety of designs and tag lines in connection with each of these marks, including First In Fasteners®. Although we do not believe our operations are substantially dependent upon any of our trademarks or service marks, we consider the ‘Fastenal’ name and our other trademarks and service marks to be valuable to our business.  

Products  

Our original product offerings were fasteners and other industrial and construction supplies, many of which are sold under the Fastenal® product name. This product line, which we refer to as the fastener product line, consists of two broad categories: threaded fasteners, such as bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related washers; and miscellaneous supplies, such as paints, various pins and machinery keys, concrete anchors, batteries, sealants, metal framing systems, wire rope, strut, private-label stud anchors, rivets, and related accessories.  

Threaded fasteners are used in most manufactured products and building projects, and in the maintenance and repair of machines and structures. Many aspects of the threaded fastener market are common to all cities. Variations from city to city that do exist typically relate to the types of businesses operating in a market or to the environmental conditions in a market. Therefore, we open each store with a broad selection of base stocks of inventory and then allow the local store and district leaders to tailor the additional inventory to the local market demand as it develops.  

Threaded fasteners accounted for approximately 90% of the fastener product line sales in 2008, 2007, and 2006 and approximately 46% of our consolidated net sales in 2008, 2007, and 2006. Concrete anchors make up the largest portion of the miscellaneous supply items included in the fastener product line. Most concrete anchors use threaded fasteners as part of the completed anchor assembly.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Since 1993, we have added additional product lines. These product lines are sold through the same distribution channel as the original fastener product line. Our product lines include the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1  We do not sell welding gases.  

We plan to continue to add other product lines in the future.  

Inventory Control  

Our inventory stocking levels are determined using our computer systems, our sales personnel at the store, district, and region levels, and our product managers. The data used for this determination is derived from sales activity from all of our stores, from individual stores, and from geographic areas. It is also derived from vendor information and from customer demographic information. The computer system monitors the inventory level for all stock items and triggers replenishment, or prompts a buyer to purchase, as necessary, based on an established minimum-maximum level. All stores stock a base inventory and may expand beyond preset inventory levels as deemed appropriate by their district managers. Inventories in distribution centers are established from computerized data for the stores served by the respective centers. Inventory quantities are continuously re-balanced utilizing an automated store-to-store transfer mechanism we call ‘inventory re-distribution’.  

Manufacturing and Support Services Operations  

In 2008, approximately 95.1% of our consolidated net sales were attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards. The remaining 4.9% related to products manufactured, modified or repaired by our manufacturing division or our support services. The manufactured products consist primarily of non-standard sizes of threaded fasteners made to customers’ specifications. The services provided by the support services group include, but are not limited to, items such as tool repair, band saw blade welding, third-party logistics, and light manufacturing. We engage in these activities primarily as a service to our customers and expect these activities in the future to continue to contribute in the range of 4% to 10% of our consolidated net sales.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Sources of Supply  

We use a large number of suppliers for the approximately 910,000 standard stock items we distribute. Most items distributed by our network can be purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some stock items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more than 5% of our purchases in 2008.  

Geographic Information  

Information regarding our revenues and certain assets by geographic location is set forth in note 8 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K under the heading “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Foreign currency fluctuations, changes in trade relations, or fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies could impact our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices and our foreign sales.  

Customers and Marketing  

We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer customers a full line of quality products at convenient locations, and to the superior service orientation and expertise of our employees. Most of our customers are in the construction and manufacturing markets. The construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment manufacturers and maintenance and repair operations. Other users of our products include farmers, truckers, railroads, mining companies, federal, state and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades. During the fourth quarter of 2008, our total number of active customer accounts (defined as accounts having purchase activity within the last 90 days) was approximately 344,000.  

During each of the three years ended December 31, 2008, no one customer accounted for a significant portion of our sales. We believe that our large number of customers together with the varied markets that they represent, provide some protection to us from economic downturns.  

Store personnel generate a significant portion of our sales through direct calls on customers. Because of the nature of our business, we make limited use of the more expensive forms of mass media advertising such as television, radio, and newspapers. The forms of advertising we use include signs, catalogs, and direct mailings.  

Competition  

Our business is highly competitive. Competitors include both large distributors located primarily in large cities and smaller distributors located in many of the same cities in which we have stores. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products are customer service and convenience.  

Some competitors use vans to sell their products in markets away from their main warehouses, while others rely on mail order or telemarketing sales. We, however, believe that the convenience provided to customers by operating stores in small, medium, and large markets, each offering a wide variety of products, is a competitive selling advantage and that the large number of stores in a given area, taken together with our ability to provide frequent deliveries to such stores from centrally located distribution centers, makes possible the prompt and efficient distribution of products. Having trained personnel at each store also enhances our ability to compete (see “Employees” below).  

9  

Table of Contents 

Employees  

As of December 31, 2008, we employed a total of 13,634 full and part-time employees, 9,428 of whom were employed at a store location, 2,709 of whom were employed in one of our distribution centers, manufacturing operations, or service operations; and the remaining 1,497 of whom were employed at one of our administrative support facilities or home office.  

We believe the quality of our employees is critical to our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to our ability to open new stores in new markets. We foster the growth and education of skilled employees throughout the organization by operating training programs and by decentralizing decision-making. Wherever possible, promotions are from within our organization. For example, most new store managers are promoted from an outside sales position and district managers (who supervise a number of stores) are usually former store managers.  

The Fastenal School of Business develops and delivers a comprehensive array of industry and company specific education and training programs that are offered to all Fastenal employees. Our school of business provides core curricula focused on key competencies determined to be critical to the success of our employees’ performance. In addition, we provide specialized educational tracks within various institutes of learning. These institutes of learning are advanced levels that provide specific concentrations of education and development and have been designed to focus on the critical aspects of our business. These institutes provide a focused educational experience to enhance employee performance in relevant business areas such as leadership, effective store best practices, sales and marketing, product education, and distribution.  

Our sales personnel are compensated with a modest base salary and an incentive bonus arrangement that places emphasis on achieving increased sales on a store and regional basis, while still attaining targeted levels of gross profit and collections. As a result, a significant portion of our total employment cost varies with sales volume. We also pay incentive bonuses to our leadership personnel based on one or more of the following factors: sales growth, profit growth (before and after taxes), profitability, and return on assets, and to our other personnel for achieving pre-determined cost containment goals.  

None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe our employee relations are good.  

Available Information  

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on or through our website at www.fastenal.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

10  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS