Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

General

Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the "Company") is a global professional services firm offering clients advice and solutions in risk, strategy and people. It is the parent company of a number of leading risk advisors and specialty consultants, including: Marsh, the insurance broker, intermediary and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and Investment related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman Group, the management, economic and brand consultancy. With approximately 60,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue of more than $13 billion, the Company provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 130 countries.

The Company conducts business through two segments:

•Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. The Company conducts business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.

•Consulting includes health, retirement, talent and Investments consulting services and products, and specialized management, economic and brand consulting services. The Company conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.

We describe the primary sources of revenue and categories of expense for each segment below, in our discussion of segment financial results. A reconciliation of segment operating income to total operating income is included in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this report. The accounting policies used for each segment are the same as those used for the consolidated financial statements.

This Management's Discussion & Analysis ("MD&A") contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" at the outset of this report. 

Consolidated Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

28

Consolidated operating income increased 10% to $2.7 billion in 2016 compared with $2.4 billion in 2015, reflecting the combined impact of a 2% increase in revenue and a 1% increase in expenses as compared to the prior year. 

Diluted net income per share from continuing operations was $3.38 in 2016, compared with $2.98 in 2015, reflecting a $169 million increase in net income as well as a 2% decrease in the average number of diluted shares outstanding as compared to the same period last year. Shares issued related to the vesting of share awards and exercise of employee stock options were more than offset by share repurchases over the past four quarters.

Risk and Insurance Services operating income increased $214 million, or 14% in 2016 compared with 2015. Revenue increased 4% reflecting a 3% increase on an underlying basis and a 3% increase from acquisitions, partly offset by a decrease resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation of 2%. Expense increased 1% in 2016 compared with 2015.

Consulting operating income increased $28 million, or 3%, to $1.1 billion in 2016 compared with 2015, reflecting the combined impact of 1% revenue growth, while expense was flat.

Consolidated operating income increased 5% to $2.4 billion in 2015 compared with $2.3 billion in 2014, reflecting the combined impact of a slight decrease in revenue and a 2% decrease in expense as compared with the prior year. The Company achieved this growth despite significant foreign exchange headwinds, caused by the strengthened U.S. dollar, which had the effect of reducing the translated value of the Company's foreign earnings.

Risk and Insurance Services operating income increased $30 million, or 2%, in 2015 compared with 2014. Revenue decreased 1%, while expenses decreased 2%.

Consulting operating income increased $80 million, or 8%, to $1.1 billion in 2015 compared with 2014, reflecting flat revenue and decrease in expense of 1%. The operating income and revenue in 2015 include a pre-tax gain of $37 million from the sale of Mercer's U.S. defined contribution recordkeeping business.

The Company recorded expenses related to the early extinguishment of debt of $137 million in 2014.

Consolidated net income attributable to the Company was $1.8 billion in 2016, compared with $1.6 billion in 2015 and $1.5 billion in 2014.

29

Consolidated Revenue and Expense

Revenue - Components of Change

The Company conducts business in many countries. As a result foreign exchange rate movements may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Similarly, certain other items such as the revenue impact of acquisitions and dispositions, including transfers among businesses, may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue from one period to another by isolating these impacts. The impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations, acquisitions and dispositions, including transfers among businesses, on the Company’s operating revenues by segment was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue using consistent currency exchange rates, excluding the impact of certain items that affect comparability such as: acquisitions, dispositions, transfers among businesses and the deconsolidation of Marsh India. For 2015, the impact of the gain from the disposal of Mercer's U.S. defined contribution recordkeeping business is included in acquisitions/dispositions in Mercer's Retirement business.

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

30

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue using consistent currency exchange rates, excluding the impact of certain items that affect comparability such as: acquisitions, dispositions and transfers among businesses. For 2015, the impact of a $37 million gain from the disposal of Mercer's U.S. defined contribution recordkeeping business is included in acquisitions/dispositions in Mercer's Retirement business.

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

Revenue

Consolidated revenue was $13.2 billion in 2016, an increase of 2%, or 3% on an underlying basis. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 4% in 2016 compared with 2015, or 3% on an underlying basis. Revenue increased 3% and 2% on an underlying basis at Marsh and Guy Carpenter, respectively, as compared with 2015. The Consulting segment's revenue increased 1% on a 

31

reported basis compared with 2015, or 3% on an underlying basis. Both Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group's revenue increased 3% on an underlying basis compared with 2015. 

Consolidated revenue was $12.9 billion in 2015, a slight decrease from 2014, but an increase of 4% on an underlying basis. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment decreased 1% in 2015 compared with 2014, but increased 3% on an underlying basis. Revenue increased 3% and 2% on an underlying basis at Marsh and Guy Carpenter, respectively, as compared with 2014. The Consulting segment's revenue was flat compared with 2014, but increased 5% on an underlying basis. Mercer and Oliver Wyman's revenue increased 4% and 7% on an underlying basis, respectively, compared with 2014.

Operating Expense

Consolidated operating expenses increased 1% in 2016 compared with the same period in 2015 on both a reported and underlying basis. The underlying expense increase reflects higher base salary costs, higher amortization of identified intangible assets and the impact of the net benefit from the termination of the Company's post-65 retiree medical reimbursement plan in the United States (the "RRA Plan"), which was recorded in the first quarter of 2015, partly offset by decreases in defined benefit plan pension expense and contingent acquisition consideration expense.

Consolidated operating expenses decreased 2% in 2015 compared with the same period in 2014, but increased 3% on an underlying basis. The increase in underlying expenses primarily reflects higher base salary, bonus, and higher defined benefit and defined contribution plan costs ("retirement benefit costs"), partly offset by the impact of the net benefit from the termination of the RRA plan.

Risk and Insurance Services

In the Risk and Insurance Services segment, the Company’s subsidiaries and other affiliated entities act as brokers, agents or consultants for insureds, insurance underwriters and other brokers in the areas of risk management, insurance broking and insurance program management services, primarily under the name of Marsh; and engage in reinsurance broking, catastrophe and financial modeling services and related advisory functions, primarily under the name of Guy Carpenter.

Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services primarily through fees paid by clients or commissions paid out of premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance companies. Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer, the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiates with clients. Revenues can be affected by premium rate levels in the insurance/reinsurance markets, the amount of risk retained by insurance and reinsurance clients themselves and by the value of the risks that have been insured since commission-based compensation is frequently related to the premiums paid by insureds/reinsureds. In many cases, fee compensation may be negotiated in advance, based on the type of risk, coverage required and service provided by the Company and ultimately, the extent of the risk placed into the insurance market or retained by the client. The trends and comparisons of revenue from one period to the next can be affected by changes in premium rate levels, fluctuations in client risk retention and increases or decreases in the value of risks that have been insured, as well as new and lost business, and the volume of business from new and existing clients.

Marsh also receives other compensation from insurance companies, separate from retail fees and commissions. This compensation includes, among other things, payment for consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota share, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate); and contingent commissions. Marsh and Guy Carpenter also receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. The investment of fiduciary funds is regulated by state and other insurance authorities. These regulations typically require segregation of fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them. Interest income from these investments varies depending on the amount of funds invested and applicable interest rates, both of which vary from time to time. For presentation purposes, fiduciary interest is segregated from the other revenues of Marsh and Guy Carpenter and separately presented within the segment, as shown in the revenue by segments charts presented earlier in this MD&A.

32

The results of operations for the Risk and Insurance Services segment are presented below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue

Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 4% in 2016 compared with 2015, as a 3% growth in underlying revenue and 3% growth from acquisitions was partly offset by a 2% decrease resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation. 

In Marsh, revenue of $6 billion increased 4% on a reported basis in 2016 as compared with 2015, reflecting a 3% increase on an underlying basis and a 4% increase from acquisitions, offset by a 2% decrease resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue increase reflects growth in all major geographies. International operations had underlying revenue growth of 3% reflecting increases of 2% in EMEA, 3% in Asia Pacific and 8% in Latin America, while U.S./Canada increased 2%.

Guy Carpenter’s revenue increased 2% to $1.1 billion in 2016 compared with 2015, reflecting an increase of 2% on an underlying basis.

Fiduciary interest income was $26 million in 2016 compared with $21 million in 2015 due to the combined effect of higher average invested funds and higher interest rates.

The Risk and Insurance Services segment completed nine acquisitions during 2016. Information regarding those acquisitions is included in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment decreased 1%, but increased 3% on an underlying basis, in 2015 compared with 2014.

In Marsh, revenue of $5.7 billion, was essentially flat on a reported basis in 2015 as compared with 2014, reflecting a 3% increase on an underlying basis and a 3% increase from acquisitions, offset by a 7% decrease resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue increase reflects growth in all major geographies. International operations had underlying revenue growth of 3% reflecting increases of 2% in EMEA, 2% in Asia Pacific and 8% in Latin America, while U.S./Canada increased 3%.

Guy Carpenter’s revenue decreased 3% to $1.1 billion in 2015 compared with 2014, but increased 2% on an underlying basis.

Fiduciary interest income was $21 million in 2015 compared with $24 million in 2014 due to lower average invested funds combined with lower interest rates.

The Risk and Insurance Services segment completed thirteen acquisitions during 2015.

Expense

Expense in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 1% on both a reported and underlying basis in 2016 compared with 2015. The impact of foreign currency translation reduced expenses by 3%, which was offset by a 3% increase related to acquisitions. The increase in underlying expense reflects higher base salary and incentive compensation costs, higher identified intangible asset amortization expense and the impact of the net benefit from the termination of the RRA plan which was recorded in the first quarter of 2015, offset by a decrease in defined benefit plan pension expense and lower contingent consideration costs related to acquisitions.

Expense in the Risk and Insurance Services segment decreased 2% on a reported basis, but increased 2% on an underlying basis, in 2015 compared with 2014. The impact of foreign currency translation reduced expenses by 7%, partly offset by a 3% increase related to acquisitions. The increase in underlying expenses reflects higher base salaries, incentive compensation and retirement benefit costs, higher intangible asset amortization expense and charges for adjustments to acquisition-related 

33

contingent consideration liabilities, partly offset by the impact of the net benefit from the termination of the RRA plan.

Consulting

Effective January 1, 2017, Mercer merged its investment and retirement businesses into a newly-created wealth business. We believe this combination will align Mercer’s investment management capabilities globally. In addition, moving forward we will refer to our talent business as our career business.

The Company conducts business in its Consulting segment through two main business groups, Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group. Mercer provides consulting expertise, advice, services and solutions in the areas of health, retirement, talent and investments. Oliver Wyman Group provides specialized management, economic and brand consulting services.

The major component of revenue in the Consulting business is fees paid by clients for advice and services. Mercer, principally through its health line of business, also earns revenue in the form of commissions received from insurance companies for the placement of group (and occasionally individual) insurance contracts, primarily life, health and accident coverages. Revenue for Mercer’s investment management business and certain of Mercer’s defined contribution administration services consists principally of fees based on assets under management or administration.

Revenue in the Consulting segment is affected by, among other things, global economic conditions, including changes in clients’ particular industries and markets. Revenue is also affected by competition due to the introduction of new products and services, broad trends in employee demographics, including levels of employment, the effect of government policies and regulations, and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. Revenues from the provision of investment management services and retirement trust and administrative services are significantly affected by the level of assets under management or administration and securities market performance.

For the investment management business, revenues from the majority of funds are included on a gross basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP and include reimbursable expenses incurred by professional staff and sub-advisory fees, and the related expenses are included in other operating expenses.

The results of operations for the Consulting segment are presented below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue

Consulting revenue in 2016 increased 1% compared with 2015, reflecting a 3% increase on an underlying basis offset by a 2% decrease from the impact of foreign currency translation. Mercer’s revenue of $4.3 billion was flat when compared with 2015 but increased 3% on an underlying basis. Mercer's year over year revenue comparison reflects a decrease of 2% from the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue growth reflects an increase in Investments of 6%, Health of 3% and Talent of 5%, while Retirement remained flat. Oliver Wyman Group’s revenue increased 2% in 2016 compared with 2015, reflecting an increase of 3% on an underlying basis, partly offset by a decrease of 2% from the impact of foreign currency translation.

The Consulting segment completed six acquisitions during 2016. Information regarding those acquisitions is included in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Consulting revenue in 2015 was flat compared with 2014, reflecting a 5% increase on an underlying basis and a 2% increase related to acquisitions, offset by a 7% decrease from the impact of foreign currency translation. Mercer’s revenue was $4.3 billion in 2015, a decrease of 1%, but an increase of 4% on an underlying basis. The year over year revenue change also reflects an increase of 2% from acquisitions/dispositions, offset by a decrease of 7% from the impact of foreign currency translation. Mercer's revenue in 2015 includes a $37 million gain from the disposal of its U.S. defined contribution recordkeeping business, and is reflected in the 2% impact from acquisitions/dispositions. The underlying revenue growth 

34

reflects an increase in Investments of 7%, Health of 6% and Talent of 5%, while Retirement remained flat. Oliver Wyman’s revenue increased 3% in 2015 compared with 2014, reflecting an increase of 7% on an underlying basis and a 2% increase from acquisitions, partly offset by a decrease of 6% from the impact of foreign currency translation.

The Consulting segment completed eight acquisitions during 2015.

Expense

Consulting expense in 2016 was essentially flat compared with 2015, reflecting an increase of 2% on an underlying basis offset by a 2% decrease from the impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in underlying expense reflects higher base salaries and the impact of the net benefit from the termination of the RRA plan which was recorded in the first quarter of 2015, partly offset by lower defined benefit plan pension expense.

Consulting expense in 2015 decreased 1%, reflecting increases of 4% in underlying expenses and 1% related to acquisitions, partly offset by a 6% decrease from the impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in underlying expense reflects the impact of higher base salaries and incentive compensation costs and higher retirement benefit costs, partly offset by the impact of the net benefit from the termination of the RRA plan.

Corporate and Other

Corporate expense in 2016 was $192 million compared with $195 million in 2015, reflecting lower executive compensation and lower defined benefit pension costs. 

Corporate expense in 2015 was $195 million compared with $204 million in 2014. The lower expenses in 2015 were primarily due to the cost of non-recurring corporate initiatives which occurred in 2014, which included strengthening cyber security protections, expenses related to strategic investments and corporate transformation efforts, primarily within the HR and Finance functions.

Discontinued Operations

As part of the disposal transactions for Putnam and Kroll, the Company provided certain indemnities, primarily related to pre-transaction tax uncertainties and legal contingencies. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, liabilities were established related to these indemnities at the time of the sales and reflected as a reduction of the gain on disposal. Discontinued operations includes charges or credits resulting from the settlement or resolution of the indemnified matters, as well as adjustments to the liabilities related to such matters.

On December 31, 2014, an agreement was reached between Putnam and the Massachusetts Department of Revenue ("DOR") regarding a tax dispute, which was covered under the indemnity agreement referred to above. In January 2015, all necessary approvals were received, the agreement was executed and the tax was paid. Concurrently, Putnam and the Company executed a settlement agreement to resolve all remaining matters under the indemnity agreement. The Company recorded a gain, net of federal tax, of approximately $28 million in 2014 related to the settlement with Putnam.

Summarized Statements of Income data for discontinued operations are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35

Other Corporate Items

Interest

Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $5 million in 2016 compared with $13 million in 2015. The decrease is due to the combined effects of a lower level of invested funds and lower interest rates. Interest expense was $189 million in 2016 compared with $163 million in 2015 due to higher average debt outstanding during 2015.

Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $13 million in 2015 compared with $21 million in 2014, primarily due to a lower level of invested funds in 2015. Interest expense was $163 million in 2015 compared with $165 million in 2014, due to lower average interest rates in 2015 compared with the prior year, partly offset by higher average debt outstanding during 2015.

Cost of Extinguishment of Debt

In October 2014, the Company redeemed $230 million of its 2015 notes and $400 million of its 2019 notes. The Company acquired the notes at market value plus a make-whole premium based on the terms of the original indenture, which exceeded the carrying value of the notes and resulted in a cost of $137 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.

Investment Income

The caption "Investment income (loss)" in the consolidated statements of income comprises realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments recognized in current earnings. It includes, when applicable, other-than-temporary declines in the value of debt and available-for-sale securities and equity method gains or losses on its investment in private equity funds. The Company's investments may include direct investments in insurance, consulting and related companies and investments in private equity funds. The Company recorded net investment income of less than $1 million in 2016 and $38 million in 2015. Net investment income in 2015 was primarily related to the general partner carried interest from Trident III. Stonepoint Capital, the investment manager of Trident III, substantially liquidated the remaining two investments of Trident III during the third quarter of 2015, which resulted in the Company recognizing its remaining deferred performance fees.

Income Taxes

The Company's consolidated effective tax rate was 27.6%, 29.1% and 28.5% in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These rates reflect foreign operations which are taxed at rates below the U.S. statutory tax rate, including the effect of repatriation, as well as the impact of discrete tax matters such as tax legislation, changes in valuation allowances, nontaxable adjustments to contingent acquisition consideration and the true-up of the tax provision to amounts filed in the Company's tax returns. In 2016, pre-tax income in the U.K., Canada, Luxembourg, Australia, Bermuda and Ireland accounted for approximately 60% of the Company's total non-U.S. pre-tax income, with effective rates in those countries of 23% (excluding certain discrete adjustments), 27%, 2%, 30%, 1% and 13%, respectively. The Company anticipates its non-U.S. operations will continue to incur taxes at rates below the U.S. federal tax rate of 35% under current U.S. law. The Company's U.S. revenue over the past three years has been approximately 50% of total revenue, while over that period the pre-tax income from U.S. locations has been approximately 25% of total pre-tax income.

As a U.S.-domiciled parent holding company, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. is the issuer of essentially all of the Company's external indebtedness, and incurs the related interest expense in the U.S. Further, most senior executive and oversight functions are conducted in the U.S. and the associated costs are incurred primarily in the United States.

The effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period for the foreseeable future. It is sensitive to the geographic mix of and repatriation of the Company's earnings, which may result in higher or lower effective tax rates. A proportional increase in U.S. pre-tax income will tend to increase the effective tax rate because U.S. federal and state corporate tax rates exceed tax rates applicable outside the U.S. Losses in certain jurisdictions cannot be offset by earnings from other operations, and may require valuation allowances that affect the rate, depending on estimates of the realizability of associated deferred tax assets. The effective tax rate is also sensitive to changes in unrecognized tax benefits, including the impact of settled tax audits and expired statutes of limitation.

The realization of deferred tax assets depends on generating future taxable income during the periods in which the tax benefits are deductible or creditable. Tax liabilities are determined and assessed 

36

jurisdictionally by legal entity or filing group. Certain taxing jurisdictions allow or require combined or consolidated tax filings. The Company assessed the realizability of its deferred tax assets. The Company considered all available evidence, including the existence of a recent history of losses, placing particular weight on evidence that could be objectively verified. A valuation allowance was recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that the Company believes is more likely than not to be realized.

Changes in tax laws, rulings, policies or related legal and regulatory interpretations occur frequently and may also have significant favorable or adverse impacts on our effective tax rate. For example, political activity surrounding proposals for fundamental U.S. tax reform have recently intensified and such reform, if enacted, could have a significant impact on the Company's effective tax rate.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company is organized as a legal entity separate and distinct from its operating subsidiaries. As the Company does not have significant operations of its own, the Company is dependent upon dividends and other payments from its operating subsidiaries to pay principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations, pay dividends to stockholders, repurchase its shares and pay corporate expenses. The Company also provides financial support to its operating subsidiaries for acquisitions, investments and certain parts of their business that require liquidity, such as the capital markets business of Guy Carpenter. Other sources of liquidity include borrowing facilities discussed below in financing cash flows.

The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside of the United States. Funds from those operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the United States out of annual earnings. At December 31, 2016, the Company had approximately $850 million of cash and cash equivalents in its foreign operations, substantially all of which is considered to be permanently invested in those operations to fund foreign investments and working capital needs. The non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents considered permanently reinvested includes $144 million of operating funds required to be maintained for regulatory requirements or as collateral under certain captive insurance arrangements. The Company expects to continue its practice of repatriating foreign funds from its non-U.S. operating subsidiaries out of current annual earnings. While management does not foresee a need to repatriate the funds which are currently deemed permanently invested, if facts or circumstances change, management could elect to repatriate them, if necessary, which could result in higher effective tax rates in the future. During 2016, the Company recorded foreign currency translation adjustments which reduced net equity by $778 million. Continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies would further reduce the translated U.S. dollar value of the Company’s net investments in its non-U.S. subsidiaries, as well as the translated U.S. dollar value of cash repatriations from those subsidiaries.

Cash on our consolidated balance sheets includes funds available for general corporate purposes. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown separately in the consolidated balance sheets as an offset to fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds cannot be used for general corporate purposes, and should not be considered as a source of liquidity for the Company.

Operating Cash Flows

The Company generated $2.0 billion of cash from operations in 2016, compared with $1.9 billion in 2015. These amounts reflect the net income of the Company during those periods, excluding gains or losses from investments, adjusted for non-cash charges and changes in working capital which relate primarily to the timing of payments of accrued liabilities or receipts of assets and pension contributions.

Pension-Related Items

Contributions

During 2016, the Company contributed $27 million to its U.S. pension plans and $187 million to non-U.S. pension plans. In 2015, the Company contributed $29 million to U.S. plans and $166 million to non-U.S. plans.

In the United States, contributions to the tax-qualified defined benefit plans are based on ERISA guidelines and the Company generally expects to maintain a funded status of 80% or more of the liability determined under the ERISA guidelines. There was no ERISA funding requirement for the U.S. qualified plan in 2016. The Company expects to fund approximately $32 million to its U.S. pension plans in 2017, including $6 million to its U.S. qualified plan to meet ERISA funding requirements.

37

The Company contributed $91 million to the U.K. plans in 2016, including an expense allowance of approximately $9 million. Based on the funding test carried out at November 1, 2016, the Company contributions to the U.K. plans in 2017 are expected to be approximately $125 million, including the expense allowance.

Outside the United States, the Company has a large number of non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the largest of which are in the U.K., which comprise approximately 81% of non-U.S. plan assets at December 31, 2016. Contribution rates for non-U.S. plans are generally based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ significantly from measurements under U.S. GAAP. In the U.K., the assumptions used to determine pension contributions are the result of legally-prescribed negotiations between the Company and the plans' trustee that typically occurs every three years in conjunction with the actuarial valuation of the plans. Currently, this results in a lower funded status than under U.S. GAAP and may result in contributions irrespective of the U.S. GAAP funded status. In November 2016, the Company and the Trustee of the U.K. Defined Benefits Plans agreed to a funding deficit recovery plan for the U.K. defined benefit pension plans. The current agreement with the Trustee sets out the annual deficit contributions which would be due based on the deficit at December 31, 2015. The funding level is subject to re-assessment, in most cases on November 1 of each year. If the funding level on November 1 is sufficient, no deficit funding contributions will be required in the following year, and the contribution amount will be deferred. As part of a long-term strategy, which depends on having greater influence over asset allocation and overall investment decisions, in November 2016 the Company renewed its agreement to support annual deficit contributions by the U.K. operating companies under certain circumstances, up to GBP 450 million over a seven-year period.

In the aggregate, the Company expects to contribute approximately $224 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit plans in 2017, comprising approximately $99 million to plans outside of the U.K. and $125 million to the U.K. plans.

Changes to Pension Plans

Effective September 1, 2015, the Company divided its U.S. qualified defined benefit plan to provide enhanced flexibility to manage the risk associated with those participants not receiving benefit accruals. The existing plan was amended to cover only the retirees currently receiving benefits and terminated vested participants as of August 1, 2015. The Company's active participants as of that date were transferred into a newly established, legally separate qualified defined benefit plan. The benefits offered to the plans' participants were unchanged. As a result of the plan amendment and establishment of the new plan, the Company re-measured the assets and liabilities of the two plans as required under U.S. GAAP, based on assumptions and market conditions at the amendment date. The net periodic pension expense recognized in 2015 reflects the weighted average costs of the December 31, 2014 measurement and the September 1, 2015 re-measurement.

The Company continues to manage the cost and assess the competitiveness of its benefits programs, and also to manage the risks related to its defined benefit pension plan liabilities. In October 2016, the Company modified its U.S. defined benefit pension plans to discontinue further benefit accruals for participants after December 31, 2016. At the same time, the Company amended its U.S. defined contribution retirement plans for most of its U.S. employees to add an automatic Company contribution equal to 4% of eligible base pay beginning on January 1, 2017. This new Company contribution, together with the Company’s current matching contribution, provides eligible U.S. employees with the opportunity to receive a total contribution of up to 7% of eligible base pay. As required under GAAP, the defined benefit plans that were significantly impacted by the modification were re-measured in October 2016 using market data and assumptions as of the modification date. The net periodic pension expense recognized in 2016 reflects the weighted average costs of the December 31, 2015 measurement and the October 2016 re-measurement. In addition, the U.S. qualified plans were merged effective December 30, 2016, since no participants would be receiving benefit accruals after December 2016.

After completion of a consultation period with affected colleagues, in January 2014, the Company amended its U.K. defined benefit pension plans to close those plans to future benefit accruals effective August 1, 2014 and replaced those plans, along with its existing defined contribution plans, with a new, comprehensive defined contribution arrangement. This change resulted in a curtailment of the U.K. defined benefit plans, and as required under GAAP, the Company re-measured the defined benefit plans’ assets and liabilities at the amendment date, based on assumptions and market conditions at that date. The Company recognized a curtailment gain of $65 million in the first quarter of 2014, primarily resulting from the recognition of the remaining unamortized prior service credit related to a plan amendment made 

38

in December 2012. This gain was mostly offset by the cost of a transition benefit to certain employees most impacted by the amendment.

Effective August 1, 2015, the Company amended its Ireland defined benefit pension plans to close those plans to future benefit accruals and replaced those plans with a defined contribution arrangement. The Company re-measured the assets and liabilities of the plans, based on assumptions and market conditions on the amendment date.

Changes in Funded Status and Expense

The year-over-year change in the funded status of the Company's pension plans is impacted by the difference between actual and assumed results, particularly with regard to return on assets, and changes in the discount rate, as well as the amount of Company contributions, if any. Unrecognized actuarial losses were approximately $1.7 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2016 for the U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans, respectively, compared with $1.8 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2015. The decrease in the U.S. was primarily due to the modification of the U.S. plans mentioned above. The increase in the non-U.S. plans was primarily due to the impact of decreases in the discount rates partly offset by actual returns on plan assets in 2016 that were higher than the estimated long-term rate of return on plan assets. In the past several years, the amount of actuarial losses has been significantly impacted, both positively and negatively, by actual asset performance and changes in discount rates. The discount rate used to measure plan liabilities decreased in both the U.S. and the U.K. (the Company's largest plans) in 2016 after increasing in 2015. The increase in 2015 followed a decrease in 2014. An increase in the discount rate decreases the measured plan benefit obligation, resulting in actuarial gains, while a decrease in the discount rate increases the measured plan obligation, resulting in actuarial losses. During 2016, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had actual returns of 9.8% and 22.1% in the U.S. and U.K., respectively. During 2015, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had a loss of 3.9% in the U.S. and gain of 1.2% in the U.K. During 2014, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had actual returns of 9.8% and 19.4% in the U.S. and U.K., respectively.

Overall, based on the measurement at December 31, 2016, expenses related to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans are expected to decrease in 2017 by approximately $120 million from 2016. This is driven by expense decreases in U.S. plans resulting from the modification of those plans which discontinued further benefit accruals for participants after December 31, 2016, as mentioned above. This decrease will be partially offset by an increase in defined contribution expense due to the additional automatic company contribution also mentioned above. The impact of the reduction in expense from the modification of the U.S. plans offset by the additional expense from the additional Company contributions to the defined contribution plan is expected to result in a net expense reduction of approximately $30 million, net of bonus. Pension expenses in the Company’s non-U.S. defined benefit plans are expected to increase approximately $5 million from 2016.

Historically, service and interest costs were estimated using a single weighted average discount rate derived from the yield curves used to measure the benefit obligations at the beginning of the period. In 2016, the Company changed the approach used to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost for its significant non-U.S. plans. This change in approach was made to improve the correlation between the projected benefit cash flows and the corresponding yield curve spot rates and to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs. The change did not impact the measurement of the plans’ total projected benefit obligation. The Company accounted for this change as a change in estimate, that was applied prospectively beginning in 2016 and resulted in pension expense being approximately $45 million lower than if the prior approach had been used.

The Company’s accounting policies for its defined benefit pension plans, including the selection of and sensitivity to assumptions, are discussed below under Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies. For additional information regarding the Company’s retirement plans, see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

In March 2015, the Company amended the RRA, resulting in its termination, with benefits to certain participants to be paid through December 31, 2016. As a result of the termination of the RRA plan, the Company recognized a net credit of approximately $125 million in the first quarter of 2015.

39

Financing Cash Flows

Net cash used for financing activities was $1.1 billion in 2016 compared with $906 million used in 2015.

Debt

The Company increased outstanding debt by approximately $400 million in 2016 and $1 billion in 2015.

The Company has established a short-term debt financing program of up to $1.5 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. The proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper are used for general corporate purposes. The Company had $50 million of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2016 at an effective interest rate of 1%.

In March 2016, the Company issued $350 million of 3.30% seven-year senior notes. In September 2015, the Company issued $600 million of 3.75% 10.5-year senior notes, and in March 2015, the Company issued $500 million of 2.35% five-year senior notes. The Company used the net proceeds from these issuances for general corporate purposes.

In September 2014, the Company issued $300 million of 2.35% five-year senior notes and $500 million of 3.50% 10.5-year senior notes. In October 2014, a significant portion of the net proceeds of this offering was used to redeem $630 million of debt, including $230 million of 5.75% senior notes due in September 2015 and $400 million of 9.25% senior notes due in 2019. Total cash outflow related to this transaction was approximately $765 million, including a $137 million cost for early redemption, which was reflected as a charge in the consolidated statements of income in the fourth quarter of 2014.

During the second quarter of 2014, the Company issued $600 million of 3.5% ten-year senior notes. The net proceeds of this offering were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of $320 million of 5.375% senior notes that matured in July 2014.

In January 2017, the Company issued $500 million of 2.75% senior notes due in 2022 and $500 million of 4.35% senior notes due in 2047. The Company intends to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include the repayment of a $250 million debt maturity in April 2017.

Credit Facilities

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries maintain a $1.5 billion multi-currency five-year unsecured revolving credit facility. The interest rate on this facility is based on LIBOR plus a fixed margin which varies with the Company's credit ratings. This facility expires in November 2020 and requires the Company to maintain certain coverage and leverage ratios which are tested quarterly. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2016.

The Company also maintains other credit facilities, guarantees and letters of credit with various banks, aggregating $376 million at December 31, 2016 and $379 million at December 31, 2015. There were $1.6 million of outstanding borrowings under these facilities at December 31, 2016 and $0.4 million of outstanding borrowings under these facilities at December 31, 2015.

The Company's senior debt is currently rated A- by Standard & Poor's and Baa1 by Moody's. The Company's short-term debt is currently rated A-2 by Standard & Poor's and P-2 by Moody's. The Company carries a stable outlook from both firms.

Share Repurchases

During 2016, the Company repurchased 12.7 million shares of its common stock for total consideration of $800 million at an average price per share of $63.18. In November 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an increase in the Company’s share repurchase program, which supersedes any prior authorization, allowing management to buy back up to $2.5 billion of the Company’s common stock going forward. As of December 31, 2016, the Company remained authorized to purchase additional shares of its common stock up to a value of approximately $2.4 billion. There is no time limit on this authorization. 

During 2015, the Company repurchased 24.8 million shares of its common stock for total consideration of $1.4 billion at an average price per share of $56.46.

Dividends

The Company paid total dividends of $682 million in 2016 ($1.30 per share), $632 million in 2015 ($1.18 per share) and $582 million in 2014 ($1.06 per share).

40

Contingent Payments Related To Acquisitions

During 2016, the Company paid $86 million of contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior years. These payments are split between financing and operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Payments of $44 million related to the contingent consideration liability that was recorded on the date of acquisition are reflected as financing cash flows. Payments related to increases in the contingent consideration liability subsequent to the date of acquisition of $42 million are reflected as operating cash flows. Remaining estimated future contingent consideration payments of $241 million for acquisitions completed in 2016 and in prior years are included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities or other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2016. The Company paid deferred purchase consideration related to prior years' acquisitions of $54 million, $36 million and $25 million in the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Remaining deferred cash payments of approximately $113 million are included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities or other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2016.

In 2015, the Company paid $47 million of contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior periods, of which $13 million was reported as financing cash flows and $34 million as operating cash flows. In 2014, the Company made $42 million of contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior periods, of which $30 million was reported as financing cash flows and $12 million as operating cash flows.

Investing Cash Flows

Net cash used for investing activities amounted to $1.1 billion in 2016 compared with $1.3 billion used for investing activities in 2015. 

The Company paid $813 million and $952 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions it made during 2016 and 2015, respectively.

On February 24, 2015, Mercer purchased shares of common stock of Benefitfocus (NASDAQ:BNFT) constituting approximately 9.9% of BNFT's outstanding capital stock as of the acquisition date. The purchase price for the BNFT shares and certain other rights and other consideration was approximately $75 million. In 2015, the Company elected to account for this investment under the cost method of accounting as the shares purchased were categorized as restricted. Effective December 31, 2016, these shares are no longer considered restricted for the purpose of determining if they are marketable securities under GAAP, and are accounted for as available for sale securities and included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets.

On June 23, 2014, Mercer acquired 34% of the common shares of South Africa-based Alexander Forbes Group Holdings Limited ("Alexander Forbes"). Mercer purchased its stake in Alexander Forbes in two tranches at 7.50 South African Rand per share at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $300 million. The investment in Alexander Forbes is accounted for using the equity method and is included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. 

The Company’s additions to fixed assets and capitalized software, which amounted to $253 million in 2016 and $325 million in 2015, primarily relate to computer equipment purchases, the refurbishing and modernizing of office facilities and software development costs.

The Company has commitments for potential future investments of approximately $45 million in four private equity funds that invest primarily in financial services companies. 

41

Commitments and Obligations

The following sets forth the Company’s future contractual obligations by the types identified in the table below as of December 31, 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The above includes the senior notes issued in January 2017. The above does not include the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $65 million as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities, other than approximately $2 million that may become payable during 2017. The above does not include net pension liabilities of approximately $1.9 billion because the timing and amount of ultimate payment of such liability is dependent upon future events, including, but not limited to, future returns on plan assets and changes in the discount rate used to measure the liabilities. The amounts of estimated future benefits payments to be made from pension plan assets are disclosed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2017, the Company expects to contribute approximately $32 million and $224 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, respectively.

Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management considers the policies discussed below to be critical to understanding the Company’s financial statements because their application places the most significant demands on management’s judgment, and requires management to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from those estimates.

Legal and Other Loss Contingencies

The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous claims, lawsuits and proceedings including claims for errors and omissions ("E&O"). GAAP requires that a liability be recorded when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Significant management judgment is required to apply this guidance. The Company utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis by Oliver Wyman Group, a subsidiary of the Company, and other analyses to estimate potential losses. The liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. In many cases, the Company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Given the unpredictability of E&O claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period.

In addition, to the extent that insurance coverage is available, significant management judgment is required to determine the amount of recoveries that are probable of collection under the Company’s various insurance programs.

Retirement Benefits

The Company maintains qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and defined contribution plans for its eligible U.S. employees and a variety of defined benefit and defined contribution plans for its eligible non-U.S. employees. The Company’s policy for funding its tax-qualified defined benefit retirement 

42

plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth in U.S. and applicable foreign laws.

The Company recognizes the funded status of its over-funded defined benefit pension and retiree medical plans as a net benefit plan asset and its unfunded and underfunded plans as a net benefit plan liability. The gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic costs are recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI"), net of tax, in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. The gains and losses that exceed specified corridors are amortized prospectively out of AOCI over a period that approximates the remaining life expectancy of participants in plans where substantially all participants are inactive or the average remaining service period of active participants for plans with active participants.

The determination of net periodic pension cost is based on a number of assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, mortality and assumed rate of salary increase. The assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic pension costs and pension liabilities are disclosed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The assumptions for expected rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate are discussed in more detail below.

The long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption is determined for each plan based on the facts and circumstances that exist as of the measurement date, and the specific portfolio mix of each plan’s assets. The Company utilizes a model developed by Mercer, a subsidiary of the Company, to assist in the determination of this assumption. The model takes into account several factors, including: actual and target portfolio allocation; investment, administrative and trading expenses incurred directly by the plan trust; historical portfolio performance; relevant forward-looking economic analysis; and expected returns, variances and correlations for different asset classes. These measures are used to determine probabilities using standard statistical techniques to calculate a range of expected returns on the portfolio. 

The target asset allocation for the U.S. Plans is 64% equities and equity alternatives and 36% fixed income. At the end of 2016, the actual allocation for the U.S. Plans was 65% equities and equity alternatives and 35% fixed income. The target asset allocation for the U.K. Plans, which comprise approximately 81% of non-U.S. Plan assets, is 48% equities and equity alternatives and 52% fixed income. At the end of 2016, the actual allocation for the U.K. Plans was 48% equities and equity alternatives and 52% fixed income.

The discount rate selected for each U.S. plan is based on a model bond portfolio with coupons and redemptions that closely match the expected liability cash flows from the plan. Discount rates for non-U.S. plans are based on appropriate bond indices adjusted for duration; in the U.K., the plan duration is reflected using the Mercer yield curve.

The table below shows the weighted average assumed rate of return and the discount rate at the December 31, 2016 measurement date (for measuring pension expense in 2017) for the total Company, the U.S. and the Rest of World ("ROW").

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Holding all other assumptions constant, a half-percentage point change in the rate of return on plan assets and discount rate assumptions would affect net periodic pension cost for the U.S. and U.K. plans, which together comprise approximately 86% of total pension plan liabilities, as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The impact of discount rate changes shown above relates to the increase or decrease in actuarial gains or losses being amortized through net periodic pension cost, as well as the increase or decrease in interest expense, with all other facts and assumptions held constant. It does not contemplate nor include potential future impacts a change in the interest rate environment and discount rates might cause, such 

43

as the impact on the market value of the plans’ assets. Changing the discount rate and leaving the other assumptions constant also may not be representative of the impact on expense, because the long-term rates of inflation and salary increases are often correlated with the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions will not necessarily have a linear impact on the net periodic pension cost.

The Company contributes to certain health care and life insurance benefits provided to its retired employees. The cost of these post-retirement benefits for employees in the U.S. is accrued during the period up to the date employees are eligible to retire, but is funded by the Company as incurred. The key assumptions and sensitivity to changes in the assumed health care cost trend rate are discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

Income Taxes

The Company's tax rate reflects its income, statutory tax rates and tax planning in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is required in determining the annual effective tax rate and in evaluating uncertain tax positions. The Company reports a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The evaluation of a tax position is a two-step process. The first step involves recognition. The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon tax examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation, based on only the technical merits of the position. The technical merits of a tax position derive from both statutory and judicial authority (legislation and statutes, legislative intent, regulations, rulings, and case law) and their applicability to the facts and circumstances of the tax position. If a tax position does not meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority.

Uncertain tax positions are evaluated based upon the facts and circumstances that exist at each reporting period and involve significant management judgment. Subsequent changes in judgment based upon new information may lead to changes in recognition, derecognition, and measurement. Adjustments may result, for example, upon resolution of an issue with the taxing authorities, or expiration of a statute of limitations barring an assessment for an issue.

Certain items are included in the Company's tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the annual tax expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income is different than that reported in the tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the returns, and some differences are temporary and reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are measured at existing tax rates. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which a deduction has been taken already in the tax return but the expense has not yet been recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in tax returns in future years for which a benefit has already been recorded in the financial statements. In assessing the need for and amount of a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, the Company considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjusts the valuation allowance accordingly. The Company evaluates all significant available positive and negative evidence, including the existence of losses in recent years and its forecast of future taxable income by jurisdiction, in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. The Company also considers tax planning strategies that would result in realization of deferred tax assets, and the presence of taxable income in prior period tax filings in jurisdictions that allow for the carryback of tax attributes pursuant to the applicable tax law. The underlying assumptions the Company uses in forecasting future taxable income require significant judgment and take into account the Company's recent performance. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which temporary differences or carry-forwards are deductible or creditable. Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets when it is estimated that it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be insufficient to fully use a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction. 

44

Fair Value Determinations

Goodwill Impairment Testing—The Company is required to assess goodwill and any indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. The Company performs the annual impairment test for each of its reporting units during the third quarter of each year. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the Company assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The Company considered numerous factors, which included that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by a substantial margin in its most recent estimate of reporting unit fair values, whether significant acquisitions or dispositions occurred which might alter the fair value of its reporting units, macroeconomic conditions and their potential impact on reporting unit fair values, actual performance compared with budget and prior projections used in its estimation of reporting unit fair values, industry and market conditions, and the year-over-year change in the Company’s share price.

The Company completed its qualitative assessment in the third quarter of 2016 and concluded that a two-step goodwill impairment test was not required in 2016 and that goodwill was not impaired.

Share-based Payment

The guidance for accounting for share-based payments requires, among other things, that the estimated fair value of stock options be charged to earnings. Significant management judgment is required to determine the appropriate assumptions for inputs such as volatility and expected term necessary to estimate option values. In addition, management judgment is required to analyze the terms of the plans and awards granted thereunder to determine if awards will be treated as equity awards or liability awards, as defined by the accounting guidance.

As of December 31, 2016, there was $14.4 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option awards. The weighted-average period over which the costs are expected to be recognized is 1.42 years. Also as of December 31, 2016, there was $127.2 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the Company’s restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance stock unit awards. The weighted-average period over which that cost is expected to be recognized is approximately 1.05 years.

See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding accounting for share-based payments.

New Accounting Pronouncements

Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contains a summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements and their impact or potential future impact on the Company’s financial results, if determinable, under the sub-heading "New Accounting Pronouncements".

45

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk