Item 1A.Risk Factors

The volatility of crude oil prices, refined product prices and natural gas and electrical power prices may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations.

Our refining margins are influenced by the price of our refining feedstocks-crude oil and other feedstocks-and the price of our refined products. These prices often move independently of each other, which can negatively impact our margins, earnings or cash flows. In recent years, prices have fluctuated significantly due to global and local factors that are beyond our control, including:

•production and availability of foreign and domestic crude oil and refined products;

•production controls set and maintained by the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries;

•transportation infrastructure availability, local market conditions, operation levels of other refineries in our markets, and the import or export of crude and refined products;

•political instability, threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war, and other global political conditions;

•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;

•the price, availability and efficiency of competing energy sources;

•local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions; and

•weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters.

Some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. The long-term effects of these and other factors on prices for crude oil, refinery feedstocks and refined products are uncertain and could negatively impact our margins, earnings or financial condition.

The short-term effects of these fluctuations could affect our margins, earnings and cash flows. We purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products could affect our margins, earnings or cash flows. In addition, we purchase refined products manufactured by others to sell to our customers. If we are unable to manage our commodity exposure risk, it could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lower refining margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations or cash flows. Significant reductions in margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets.

Volatile prices for natural gas and electricity used by our refineries and other operations affect manufacturing and operating costs. Natural gas and electricity prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. In addition, the volume of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and NGLs that Andeavor Logistics distributes and stores at its terminals, transports and processes depends substantially on our and other customers’ profit margins, the market price of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and other refinery feedstocks, and product demand.

Federal tax reform could adversely affect our business.

On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed major tax legislation into law under the Tax Act. The Tax Act, known informally as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, reduces the statutory rate of U.S. federal corporate income tax to 21% and enacts numerous other changes impacting us and the oil and gas industry. We cannot predict the impact these changes will have on our business; however, it is possible that these changes could adversely affect our business, our cash flows, our profitability and our ability to compete domestically and internationally.

18 |  

Risk Factors

The reduction in the statutory U.S. federal corporate income rate is expected to positively impact our future U.S. after-tax earnings. Other changes in the Tax Act that broaden the tax base by reducing or eliminating deduction for certain items (e.g., reductions to dividends received deductions, elimination of deductions for income attributable to domestic production activities, limitations on business interest expense deduction, and limitations on the deduction of certain executive compensation costs) will offset a portion of the benefits from the lower statutory rate. The overall impact of the Tax Act is subject to the effect of other complex provisions in the Tax Act.

Additionally, we are subject to ongoing income tax audits. The taxing authorities may disagree with positions taken on our tax returns. Coupled with the change in tax rates from the Tax Act, this could result in an adverse effect to our effective income tax rate in the period of adjustment.

Furthermore, it is possible that the Tax Act will be subject to further changes either in a technical corrections bill or entirely new legislation. The overall impact of the Tax Act also depends on the future interpretations and regulations that may be issued by U.S. tax authorities. It remains difficult to predict whether or when there will be any tax law changes or further guidance by the authorities having a material adverse effect on our financial conditions or results of operations, as the impact of broad proposals on our business can vary substantially depending upon the specific changes or further guidance made and how the changes or guidance are implemented by the authorities.

We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future, or in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition.

If we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions into our business, we may never realize their expected benefits. With each acquisition, we may discover or experience unexpected costs, environmental liabilities for which we are not indemnified, delays, lower than expected cost savings or synergies, or incurrence of other significant charges such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets and asset devaluation. In addition, we may be unable to successfully integrate the diverse company cultures, retain key personnel, apply our expertise to new competencies, or react to adverse changes in commodity prices or industry conditions.

We cannot predict with certainty the benefits of these acquisitions, which often constitute multi-year endeavors. On June 1, 2017, we completed our acquisition of Western Refining. This acquisition will require substantial capital during 2018 and later years. If we are unable to realize all or part of the projected benefits from this or other acquisitions within our expected time frames, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer.

We are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on logistics assets for the transportation of crude oil, feedstocks and refined products within our business.

Our subsidiaries own and operate ten refineries in the western and mid-continent United States, which refine crude oil and other feedstocks into refined products for sale to a wide variety of markets. We rely on a variety of logistics assets to transport crude oil, feedstocks and refined products, including, but not limited to, marine vessels, marine terminals, rail, pipelines, product terminals, storage tanks and trucks. Some of these assets are owned and operated by third-parties. In particular, losing access to certain assets owned by Andeavor Logistics could halt production at some of our refineries. Accidents, natural disasters, government regulation, third-party actions or other events outside of our control could impede our use or increase the cost of using these assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Adverse changes in global economic conditions and the demand for transportation fuels may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict.

Our business is affected by the strength of the U.S. and global economies, related demand for transportation fuels, and the risk of global economic downturn. Technological changes in vehicles and other energy systems, such as electric vehicles, fuel cells and battery storage systems, as well as transportation alternatives, could also affect demand. New energy technologies or prolonged economic downturns could result in declines in consumer and business confidence and spending as well as increased unemployment and reduced demand for transportation fuels. These conditions may decrease the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners, which could interrupt or delay our suppliers’ performance of our contracts, reduce or delay customer purchases, delay or prevent customers from obtaining financing to purchase our products, or result in bankruptcy of customers or business partners. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.

  December 31, 2017 | 19

Risk Factors

We operate in international markets, and are thus subject to risks of doing business on a global level.

We operate in and sell some of our products in non-U.S. jurisdictions, primarily in Mexico, South America and Asia. Our operating results or financial condition could be negatively impacted by disruptions in any of these markets, including economic instability, restrictions on the transfer of funds, duties and tariffs, transportation delays, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, security issues involving key personnel and changing regulatory and political environments. In addition, if trade relationships deteriorate with these countries, if existing trade agreements are modified or terminated, new economic sanctions relevant to such jurisdictions are passed or if taxes, border adjustments or tariffs make trading with these countries more costly, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.

A portion of our contracts and revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements. To the extent we do not manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer losses in value of our net foreign currency investment, and our consolidated results of operations and financial position may be negatively affected.

Actions of governments through tax legislation and other changes in law, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability, both in the U.S. and abroad. The U.S. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. These restrictions could limit our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries. 

We are required to comply with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. For example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws and regulations prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining any business advantage. Our compliance policies and programs mandate compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws but may not be completely effective in ensuring our compliance. Our training and compliance program and our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from violations committed by our employees or agents. Actual or alleged violations of these laws could disrupt our business and cause us to incur significant legal expenses, and could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

The availability and cost of renewable identification numbers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

The RFS2, issued by the EPA, requires refiners to add annually increasing amounts of “renewable fuels” to their petroleum products or to purchase credits, known as RINs, in lieu of such blending. Due to regulatory uncertainty and in part due to the nation’s fuel supply approaching the “blend wall” (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price and availability of RINs has been volatile.

While we generate RINs by blending renewable fuels manufactured by third parties, we purchase RINs on the open market to comply with the RFS2. We cannot predict the future prices of RINs, and the costs to obtain the necessary RINs could be material. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to pass the cost of compliance on to our customers, pay significantly higher prices for RINs, and generate or purchase RINs to meet RFS2 mandated standards.

Meeting the requirements of, including the cost to comply with, evolving environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and any failure to meet those requirements could materially affect our performance, financial condition and results of operations.

Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may continue to increase our operating costs and require significant capital investments. If we discover conditions at our facilities that require remediation, or if environmental, health and safety, and energy requirements change materially, we could be required to increase our capital expenditures or incur additional operating costs, which could negatively impact our financial condition. Environmental and operational risks, including those relating to process safety could result in increased regulatory requirements, liabilities, permit restrictions or revocation or an adverse effect to our reputation. Equipment or system failures, human error, extreme weather events or natural disasters could result in hazardous material releases into the environment, fires, explosions, loss of life, personal injury and property damage. We cannot predict the effect of future developments in federal or state laws or regulations governing environmental, health and safety or energy matters on our operations, or how these changes may impact our business or financial condition. For example:

•In July 2017 California adopted additional process safety management regulations to implement recommendations made in 2014 by the Governor’s Interagency Refinery Safety Working Group. These requirements significantly expand the scope and requirements of California’s process safety management and accidental release prevention programs. These requirements could have a material impact on our cash flows, profitability and financial condition.

20 |  

Risk Factors

•In California, the Board for the South Coast Air Quality Management District passed amendments to the RECLAIM on December 4, 2015. The RECLAIM Amendments became effective in 2016 and require a staged reduction of NOx through 2022. The agency is also working on a process to “sunset” the existing RECLAIM program and require facilities to install best available retrofit control technologies on equipment.

•In California, AB-617, a companion bill to green house gas legislation, was passed in 2017 to establish programs to reduce local criteria and toxic emissions at an individual community level. This will involve community monitoring, emission reduction plans, and installation of equipment in the selected communities.

Climate change and greenhouse regulation could affect our operations, energy consumption patterns and regulatory obligations, any of which could affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Scientific studies have indicated that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere can produce changes in climate with significant physical effects, including increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other extreme weather events that could affect our operations. Increased concern over the effects of climate change may also affect our customers’ energy strategies, consumer consumption patterns, including the adoption of electric vehicles, and government and private sector alternative energy initiatives any of which could adversely affect demand for petroleum products.

Currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) and other emissions are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation. These include actions to develop international, federal, regional or statewide programs, which could require reductions in our greenhouse gas or other emissions and decrease the demand for our refined products. Requiring reductions in these emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. 

For example, in California, the state legislature adopted SB 32 in 2016. SB 32 set a cap on emissions of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030 but did not establish a particular mechanism to achieve that target. The legislature also adopted a companion bill, AB 197, that most significantly directs the California Air Resources Board to prioritize direct emission reductions on large stationary sources. In 2017, the state legislature adopted AB 398 which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in SB 32. In 2009, CARB adopted the Low Carbon Fuel Standard (“LCFS”), which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of gasoline and diesel by 2020 and additional reductions beyond 2020 are anticipated. Compliance is demonstrated by blending lower carbon intensity biofuels into gasoline and diesel or by purchasing credits. Compliance with each of the cap and trade and LCFS programs is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. If we are unable to pass the costs of compliance on to our customers, sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase, we have to pay a significantly higher price for credits, or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.

California’s ambitious climate change and air emissions goals and regulatory programs are complex, subject to change and considerable uncertainty due to a number of factors including technological feasibility, legal challenges and potential changes in federal policy. Increasing concerns about climate change have also resulted in a number of international, national, regional and statewide measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Additional stricter measures can be expected in the future and any of these changes may have a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition.

Regulatory and other requirements concerning the transportation of crude oil and other commodities by rail may cause increases in transportation costs or limit the amount of crude oil that we can transport by rail.

We rely on a variety of systems to transport crude oil, including rail. In 2012, we completed the construction of a 50 Mbpd crude oil rail car unloading facility in Anacortes, Washington (the “Anacortes Rail Facility”), which Andeavor Logistics subsequently acquired from us. The Anacortes Rail Facility allows us to receive crude oil into our Anacortes refinery.

Rail transportation is regulated by federal, state and local authorities. New regulations or changes in existing regulations could result in increased compliance expenditures. For example, in 2015 the U.S. Department of Transportation issued new standards and regulations applicable to crude-by-rail transportation (Enhanced Tank Car Standards and Operational Controls for High-Hazard Flammable Trains). These or other regulations could increase the time required to move crude oil from production areas to our refineries, increase the cost of rail transportation and decrease the efficiency of shipments of crude oil by rail within our operations. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business, and the failure of any critical information system, including a cyber-security breach, may result in harm to our reputation and business.

We depend heavily on our technology infrastructure and critical information systems, including data networks, telecommunications, remote connectivity, cloud-based information controls, software applications and hardware, including those that are critical to operating our refineries, pipelines, terminals, retail stations and other business operations. In addition, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers using credit cards at our retail outlets.

  December 31, 2017 | 21

Risk Factors

We are in the process of completing the enterprise resource planning project (see further discussion in Item 7) which aims to simplify business processes by implementing a standardized and scalable technology platform. Large information systems and business process transformations such as this one are complex and require significant investments in system software, business process development and employee resources. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or service limitations. Additionally, we may not achieve all of the expected synergies with this project which may impact our ability to achieve the project’s objectives.

Our technology infrastructure and information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, employee error or malfeasance, and other events. Although we have experienced actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches have had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). However, no cybersecurity or emergency recovery processes is failsafe, and if our safeguards fail or our data or technology infrastructure is compromised, the safety and efficiency of our operations could be materially harmed, our reputation could suffer, and we could be subject us to additional costs, liabilities, and costly legal challenges, including those involving privacy of customer data. Any of these outcomes could materially harm our business and operations. Finally, state and federal legislation relating to cybersecurity could impose new requirements, which could increase our costs or reduce our efficiency.

Disruption of our ability to obtain crude oil could adversely affect our operations, revenue and cash flow.

To maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. A material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries as a result of decreased exploration and production activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. Such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and a corresponding reduction in our revenue and cash flow.

In addition, many of our logistics agreements contain minimum volume commitments. If we do not satisfy the minimum volume commitments, we will still be responsible for payment for transportation and storage services as if we had utilized such minimum volumes.

Our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk.

We conduct some of our operations, through joint ventures in which we share control over certain economic and, business interests with our joint venture partners. Our joint venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals and interests or may be unable to meet their obligations. Failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint-venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business.

The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation’s refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. Any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers, or on any transportation networks, including pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

Our inventory risk management activities may result in substantial derivative variability or losses.

We enter into derivative transactions to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products, natural gas, and other feedstocks associated with our physical inventories and future production, and these may result in substantial derivatives variability or losses, which could increase the volatility of our earnings. We manage price risk on inventories above or below our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. Consequently, our results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. These transactions may also expose us to the risk of financial loss; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreement fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. See Item 7A.

22 |  

Risk Factors

Competition in the refining, logistics and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability.

We compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. Competitors with greater geographic diversity, larger or more complex refineries, integrated operations with exploration and production resources and broader access to resources, may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions and to bear the risks inherent in the refining industry. For example, competitors that engage in exploration and production of crude oil may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. Our competitors’ recent consolidations and acquisitions and their plans for projects that could increase refining capacity or efficiency could increase competition in our markets, reduce our margins and affect our cash flow.

In addition, we compete with alternative energy and fuel producers for some industrial, commercial and individual consumers. There is significant governmental and consumer pressure to increase the use of alternative fuels and vehicles in the United States. If these alternative energy sources gain support as a result of governmental regulations and subsidies, technological advances, consumer demand, or other causes, they could impact demand for our products and our financial condition.

Our operations are subject to operational hazards that could expose us to potentially significant losses.

Refineries, gas processing plants, pipelines, rail cars, terminals, underground gas storage and other components of our business are subject to potential operational hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, natural gas, refined products and waste. Operational hazards, such as fires, floods, earthquakes, explosions, third-party accidents, maritime disasters, security breaches, pipeline ruptures and spills, mechanical failure of equipment, severe weather and other natural disasters, at our or third-party facilities, could result in business interruptions or shutdowns and damage to our properties and the properties of others. A serious accident at our facilities could also result in serious injury or death to our employees or contractors and could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk. These events could create significant liabilities that are outside the limits or scope or our insurance policies, and could expose us to penalties under federal, state and local laws. The costs that we could have to pay in penalties or for clean-up, remediation and damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. Any such unplanned event or shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In addition, we operate in and adjacent to environmentally sensitive coastal waters where tanker, pipeline, rail car and refined product transportation and storage operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. Our coastal refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks by tanker. In addition, our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks by rail car and truck. Transportation and storage of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products over and adjacent to water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and state laws in California, Washington, Alaska and Oregon, as well as international laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. If we are unable to promptly and adequately contain any accident or discharge involving tankers, pipelines, rail cars or above ground storage tanks transporting or storing crude oil, other feedstocks or refined products, we may be subject to substantial liability. In addition, the service providers we have contracted to aid us in a discharge response may be unavailable due to weather conditions, governmental regulations or other local or global events. International, federal or state rulings could divert our response resources to other global events.

We are also required to ensure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks and pipeline connections. If our quality control measures were to fail or be compromised, we may have contaminated or off-specification products commingled in our pipelines and storage tanks that could be sent to customers and other end users. These types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers or other pipelines to which our pipelines connect. These product liability claims may have a material adverse effect on our business or results or operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers.

We do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses. Marine vessel charter agreements may not provide complete indemnity for oil spills, and any marine charterer’s liability insurance we carry may not cover all losses. If a loss event is not fully covered by insurance or if our insurers fail to honor their coverage commitments for an insured event or if our counterparties fail to honor any indemnification agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our operations are also subject to general environmental risks, expenses and liabilities, which could affect our results of operations.

From time to time we have been, and presently are, subject to litigation and investigations with respect to environmental and related matters, including product liability claims related to the oxygenate methyl tertiary butyl ether. We may become involved in further litigation or other civil or criminal proceedings, or we may be held responsible in any existing or future litigation or proceedings, the costs of which could be material.

  December 31, 2017 | 23

Risk Factors

We operate and have in the past operated retail stations with underground storage tanks in various jurisdictions. Federal and state regulations and legislation govern the storage tanks, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. The operation of underground storage tanks poses certain risks, including leaks. Leaks from underground storage tanks, which may occur at one or more of our retail stations, or which have occurred at our previously operated retail stations, can impact soil or groundwater and result in fines and civil liability for us.

Large capital projects can take several years to complete, and if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, or if market conditions deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, our results of operations, cash flows or project returns could be adversely impacted.

We are constructing several new projects and expanding existing ones, such as the construction of the Conan Crude Oil Gathering Pipeline System and the Clean Product Upgrade Project. The construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds because construction or expansion may occur over an extended period of time, and we may not receive any material increases in revenues until after substantial completion of the project.

To approve a large-scale capital project, the project must meet an acceptable level of return on the capital to be employed in the project. We base these economic projections on our best estimate of future market conditions that are not within our control. Most large-scale projects take many years to complete and during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast due to changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and changes in customer demand. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and return on capital employed.

Because of our debt obligations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally.

At December 31, 2017, our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $7.8 billion. We may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future.

Our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including:

•increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions;

•limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry;

•limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders;

•limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and

•requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes.

Refining operations require certain levels of commodity inventories, which we may fund using combinations of working capital and debt. Our ability to obtain credit and capital is significantly impacted by the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. Our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time that constrains our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Certain lenders may not lend to us due to the industry in which we operate, or other factors beyond our control. In addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. Uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets could also have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. Further, from time to time, we may need to supplement cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. A decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile, could increase our costs of borrowing money or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could affect our ability to manage our inventory or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by our employees, as well as new labor requirements.

As of December 31, 2017, approximately 2,850 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of these employees, approximately 1,700 are covered by collective bargaining agreements expiring on February 1, 2019 with the remaining employees covered under agreements with expirations ranging from May 2019 to March 2023. A strike, work stoppage or other labor action could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

24 |  

Risk Factors

In addition, California requires refinery owners to pay prevailing wages to contract craft workers and restricts refiners’ ability to hire qualified employees to a limited pool of applicants. Legislation or changes in regulations could result in labor shortages higher labor costs, and an increased risk that contract employees become joint employees of Andeavor, which could trigger bargaining issues, employment discrimination liability issues as well as wage and benefit consequences, especially during critical maintenance and construction periods.

Ownership of the general partner of Andeavor Logistics may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations.

One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of Andeavor Logistics. Our control of the general partner may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to Andeavor Logistics. Any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.Properties