Item 1.Business

Effective August 1, 2017, Tesoro Corporation changed its name to Andeavor. Andeavor was incorporated in Delaware in 1968. Headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “ANDV.”

We are a highly integrated marketing, logistics and refining company operating primarily in the western and mid-continent United States. Our business is organized into three operating segments: Marketing, Logistics and Refining. These segments operate together to provide Andeavor value from the procurement of crude oil at its source or from other third parties, transporting the crude oil to our refineries, and producing, marketing and distribution of refined products. Our retail marketing system includes more than 3,250 stations marketed under multiple well-known fuel brands, including ARCO®, Shell®, Mobil™ and SUPERAMERICA®. We also have an approximate ownership of 59% in Andeavor Logistics and own its general partner. Our refining operations include 10 refineries with a combined capacity of approximately 1.2 million barrels per day in the central and western United States.

Andeavor Logistics (formerly Tesoro Logistics LP) is a leading growth-oriented, full-service, and diversified midstream company operating in the western and mid-continent regions of the United States. Andeavor Logistics owns and operates networks of crude oil, refined products and natural gas pipelines, terminals with crude oil and refined products storage capacity, rail loading and offloading facilities, marine terminals including storage, bulk petroleum distribution facilities, a trucking fleet and natural gas processing and fractionation complexes.

See our discussion of our operating segments, including description of associated properties in the following section. Additionally, refer to Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our operating segments, including financial performance.

The following provides an overview of our assets and operations:

  December 31, 2017 | 5

Business

2017 Acquisitions

Western Refining Acquisition and WNRL Merger

On June 1, 2017, we acquired Western Refining, Inc. (“Western Refining”) and the controlling interest in Western Refining Logistics LP (“WNRL”) (the “Western Refining Acquisition”). Additionally, on October 30, 2017, Andeavor Logistics acquired with WNRL by exchanging units of Andeavor Logistics for all outstanding common units of WNRL (the “WNRL Merger”). Refer to our discussion of the Western Refining Acquisition and WNRL Merger, including financial details relating to these transactions and the concurrent equity restructuring of our general partner and IDR interests held in Andeavor Logistics at the time of the WNRL Merger in Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

With the Western Refining Acquisition, we expanded our asset base and operations as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Logistics segment: through the acquisition of WNRL, we acquired assets that are strategically located providing for significant growth opportunities and access to advantaged crude oil. These assets include 705 miles of pipelines located in Permian Basin area of west Texas and southern New Mexico that gather and transport crude oil by pipeline, as well as by truck, from various production locations to the acquired El Paso, Texas and Gallup, New Mexico refineries and approximately 13 million barrels of crude oil, feedstock, blendstock, refined product and asphalt storage tanks supporting the acquired refineries and gathering pipelines; and

•Refining segment: we acquired three refineries in El Paso, Gallup and St. Paul Park, Minnesota with a total refining capacity of 262 Mbpd bringing our capacity to 1.2 million barrels per day across ten refineries.

As of December 31, 2017, integration of these assets and operations continues. Refer to our discussion of each segment below for an understanding of how Western Refining’s assets and operations have been integrated with our existing operations.

North Dakota Gathering and Processing Assets

On January 1, 2017, Andeavor Logistics acquired crude oil, natural gas and produced water gathering systems and two natural gas processing facilities from Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation, GBK Investments, LLC and WBI Energy Midstream, LLC (the “North Dakota Gathering and Processing Assets”). The North Dakota Gathering and Processing Assets include over 650 miles of crude oil, natural gas, and produced water gathering pipelines, 170 MMcf per day of natural gas processing capacity and 18.7 Mbpd of fractionation capacity in the Sanish and Pronghorn fields of the Williston Basin in North Dakota. With this acquisition, Andeavor Logistics expanded its assets in its Gathering and Processing business located in the Williston Basin area of North Dakota to further grow its integrated, full-service logistics capabilities in support of third-party demand for crude oil, natural gas and water gathering services as well as natural gas processing services. In addition, this extends Andeavor Logistics’ capacity and capabilities by adding new origin and destination points for its common carrier pipelines in North Dakota and extends our crude oil, natural gas and water gathering and associated gas processing footprint to enhance and improve overall basin logistics efficiencies.

Working Capital

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents and cash flows generated from operations. In addition, our revolving lines of credit are available for additional working capital needs. See “Capital Resources and Liquidity” in Item 7 for additional information regarding working capital.

Employees

We had more than 14,300 full-time employees at December 31, 2017, approximately 2,850 of whom are full-time represented union employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of these employees, approximately 1,700 are covered by collective bargaining agreements expiring on February 1, 2019 with the remaining employees covered under agreements with expirations ranging from May 2019 to March 2023.

Guiding Principles

Underpinning our strategies and the execution of our goals for all of our businesses is a high-performing culture where employees lead according to our Guiding Principles and have the opportunity to make a difference. These Guiding Principles are as follows:

•Core Values – We act individually and collectively with the highest level of integrity and we are steadfast in our commitment to safety, health and the environment.

•Exceptional People – We employ the best people and develop our capabilities and leadership to realize our objectives.

•Shared Purpose – Everyone clearly understands and owns our vision, strategy, how they fit and what they are expected to contribute.

6 |  

Business

•Powerful Collaboration – We leverage the power of collaboration and our individual and collective expertise to create value and competitive advantage.

•Superior Execution – We pursue and deliver our objectives with energy, passion and a sense of urgency to deliver industry-leading results.

Strategic Priorities

By following our Guiding Principles, we aim to achieve our Strategic Priorities outlined below. In addition, we take a principles-based approach to conducting our business, seeking to create shared value for key stakeholders including employees, communities, business partners, the government and the environment.

•High-Performing Culture – Fostering a culture that is committed to building leadership at all levels of the organization and across our value chain with employees from diverse backgrounds and experiences while being firmly grounded in our guiding principles.

•Operational Efficiency & Effectiveness – Continuously improving safety, compliance, reliability, system improvements and cost leadership.

•Value Chain Optimization – Enhancing margin capture through our supply and trading activities, optimization of our integrated businesses and customer focus.

•Financial Discipline – Maintaining a strong financial position by exercising capital discipline and focusing on a balanced use of free cash flow.

•Value-Driven Growth – Extending our capabilities and growing earnings through growth in our logistics and marketing businesses and other strategic opportunities accretive to shareholder value.

Shared Value

Shared Value is a way of doing business that involves considering and working with key stakeholders in service of one another, as well as the business. We think of it as a lens through which we view our roles and our decisions. Shared Value helps us focus on the intersection of what is important to our stakeholders and the value we create.

•Our People - The engagement, satisfaction and development of our people is of the utmost importance. Across the enterprise, we support our team members in a range of programs aimed at providing health and wellness support, ongoing learning and development, opportunities to reward and celebrate excellent performance, and foster a diverse and inclusive environment.

•Communities - Our approach to philanthropy and community investment is both thoughtful and strategic. We work to ensure our giving supports the needs of our local communities, aligns with the passions of our people, and advances our business goals and objectives.

•Customers and Business Partners - Our long-term strategy is focused on growth and transformation to generate strong cash flow for the health of our business and on behalf of our shareholders. We are also committed to providing a wide range of customers with a reliable supply of high-quality products and outstanding customer service.

•Environment - We continue our focus on environmental stewardship, and strive to improve operational efficiency and effectiveness to reduce emissions, waste and water use, while pursuing business opportunities that enable efficient use of resources.

•Government - We are a trusted and credible voice to government, working to find solutions to issues of mutual interest.

Health and Safety

Improving personal and process safety is a core value at Andeavor. We are committed to operating our refineries, pipelines, retail stations and other facilities in a manner that promotes the health and safety of our employees, our customers and the communities where we do business.

The pursuit of continually improving our safety performance led to a program approach, which we call Destination Zero. Our intent is to promulgate a belief across the organization that an incident free workplace is possible, then engaging employees in meaningful ways to achieve it. Increasingly impressive examples of Destination Zero are celebrated, powerfully shared across the Company, and widely recognized.

Our Environmental, Health & Safety policy in conjunction with our Operational Excellence Management System establish metrics, expectations and responsibilities for achieving our goals for the following key areas:

Personal Safety

At Andeavor, we strive to instill a culture of personal responsibility among our employees and contractors by setting clear expectations around our safety standards and policies. We conduct regular audits, assessments and program reviews to ensure these practices are being followed and to identify improvements to enhance our workplace safety.

  December 31, 2017 | 7

Business

Process Safety

Andeavor’s facilities are designed, operated and maintained to be safe work environments. To maintain the integrity of our operating systems, we enforce a disciplined framework that includes comprehensive design, engineering, operating and maintenance practices. We use industry-recognized methodologies to assure process safety and asset integrity, and to reduce the risk of incidents.

Transportation Safety

We rely on industry best practices, internal policies, and persistent evaluation and improvement. Andeavor has proactively led the industry in the safe shipment of crude oil via rail. We worked collaboratively with tank car manufacturers to develop enhanced rail cars that surpass regulatory standards.

Website Access to Reports and Other Information

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other public filings with the SEC are available, free of charge, on our website (http://andeavor.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also access these reports on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.

 Marketing

Our Marketing segment sells gasoline and diesel fuel in the western and mid-continent United States through Retail, Branded, and Unbranded channels along with convenience store products in our Retail channel. Our Retail business is made up of company-owned or leased properties offering fuel and convenience store products to end-consumers through company-operated stations and third party-operated stations (“MSOs”). The Branded business is comprised primarily of fuel sales through long-term contracts with Jobbers and Dealers utilizing one of the many successful brands in our portfolio. Our Retail and Branded channels primarily use the ARCO®, Shell®, Mobil™ and SUPERAMERICA® brands for fuel sales and ampm®, SUPERAMERICA® and Giant® brands for convenience stores. Capturing this brand value results in higher fuel margins for our Marketing segment. Our Unbranded business includes fuel sales through agreements with third-party distributors/operators without an associated fuel brand. The combined use of these channels provides both income from merchandise sales through convenience stores as well as a profitable outlet for the majority of the fuel produced by our refineries. In addition to added profitability, our Marketing business enables our refineries to run optimally, which lowers overall operating costs per barrel.

Fuel Sales Brands           

Convenience Store Brands          

The following provides an overview of our Retail and Branded network:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)The Marketing segment’s wholesale fuel operations distributes commercial wholesale petroleum products primarily in Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico and Texas.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

8 |  

Business

Western Refining Acquisition and WNRL Merger

With the Western Refining Acquisition and the subsequent WNRL Merger, our Marketing segment added 544 stations to our branded network, including 457 company-operated stations, and along with other strategic, immaterial acquisitions increased our store count to over 3,250 stations. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2017 and following the WNRL Merger, our Marketing segment includes the wholesale fuel operations of WNRL for which prior period segment results have been recast to conform to the new presentation.

Mexico

In July 2017, we reached a definitive agreement with Pemex for terminalling and transportation services in Mexico, allowing the potential to supply up to 40 Mbpd of transportation fuels in the states of Sonora and Baja California, Mexico. Also in July, we announced a definitive agreement for the supply of fuel in the states of Sonora and Baja California, Mexico allowing Andeavor to begin wholesale marketing operations in Mexico using the ARCO® brand. These agreements support our integrated value chain by extending the marketing presence into the growing market in Mexico. We expect to increase our marketing presence across the entire northern part of Mexico over the next few years.

Competition

We sell gasoline through our network of branded retail stations as well as on an unbranded or wholesale basis. Our marketing operations compete with other independent marketers, integrated oil companies and high-volume retailers. Competitive factors that affect our Marketing segment include product price, location, convenience and brand appeal.

  Logistics

Overview

Our Logistics segment includes the operations of Andeavor Logistics with the exception of the wholesale fuel business acquired as part of the WNRL Merger. This wholesale fuel sales business is included in our Marketing segment.

Terminalling and Transportation

Andeavor Logistics’ terminalling and transportation business consists of the following assets and operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Our Petroleum Coke handling facility has capacity of 2,600 metric tons per day.

The terminalling and transportation business generates revenues by charging our customers fees for:

•providing storage services;

•transporting refined products;

  December 31, 2017 | 9

Business

•delivering crude oil, refined products and intermediate feedstocks from vessels to refineries and terminals;

•loading and unloading crude oil transported by unit train to Andeavor’s Anacortes refinery;

•loading and unloading from marine vessels and barges;

•transferring refined products from terminals to trucks, barges, rail cars and pipelines;

•providing ancillary services, ethanol blending and additive injection; and

•handling petroleum coke for Andeavor’s Los Angeles refinery.

Andeavor Logistics typically enters into long-term contractual arrangements with customers for the provision of services. Many of these contracts have minimum volume commitments that must be met by the customer over a period of time. As of December 31, 2017, 90% of total shell capacity is dedicated for use by a specific customer. These commitments and dedications provide the terminalling and transportation business with stable, fee-based cash flow limiting the impact of seasonality.

Andeavor and its affiliates represent Andeavor Logistics’ largest customer. Approximately 92% of Andeavor Logistics’ terminalling and transportation revenues were from Andeavor and its affiliates, most of which were derived from contracts that include minimum volume commitments, and has provided approximately 43.1 million barrels of dedicated storage capacity for Andeavor’s refining operations under various agreements.

Gathering and Processing

Andeavor Logistics’ gathering and processing business consists of the following assets and operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b) The pipeline mileage associated with our equity method investments is not included in the table. Our equity method investments are discussed below.

Andeavor Logistics generates gathering and processing revenues by charging our customers fees for:

•gathering and transporting crude oil, natural gas and produced water;

•operating storage facilities with tanks located in strategic areas;

•operating truck-based crude oil gathering; and

•processing gas under fee-based processing and percentage-of-proceeds agreements.

Certain equity method investments that contribute to Andeavor Logistics’ gathering and processing systems including investments in:

•RGS which operates the infrastructure that transports gas along 333 miles of pipeline from certain fields to several re-delivery points, including natural gas processing facilities that are owned by Andeavor Logistics or a third party;

•TRG which transports natural gas across 52 miles of pipeline to our natural gas processing facilities in the Uinta Basin; and

•UBFS which operates 78 miles of gathering pipeline and gas compression assets located in the southeastern Uinta Basin.

Andeavor Logistics derived 24% of its gathering and processing revenues from Andeavor and its affiliates. Andeavor Logistics process gas for certain producers under keep-whole processing agreements. Approximately 23% of Andeavor Logistics’ processing throughput capacity is currently supported by long-term, fee-based processing agreements with minimum volume commitments.

10 |  

Business

WNRL Assets and Operations

Terminalling and Transportation

Through the WNRL Merger, Andeavor Logistics’ terminalling and transportation business expanded to include the following WNRL assets and related operations:

•Refined products terminals located in El Paso, Texas; Albuquerque, Bloomfield and Gallup, New Mexico; and St. Paul Park, Minnesota. The terminals distribute refined products supplied by an Andeavor refinery through truck loading racks, barge facilities, rail and other logistics assets;

•Storage facilities located in El Paso, Gallup and St. Paul Park. Each facility is located adjacent to an Andeavor refinery and provides storage and transfer services required to support the refinery’s operations; and

•Asphalt terminalling and processing services at our asphalt plant and terminal in El Paso, as well as at three stand-alone asphalt terminals in Albuquerque and Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona. The El Paso asphalt plant is located adjacent to Andeavor’s El Paso refinery. WNRL’s assets also include a fleet of asphalt trucks, which are utilized to deliver asphalt to Andeavor's asphalt terminals and third-party customers.

Gathering and Processing

Additionally from the WNRL Merger, Andeavor Logistics’ gathering and processing business expanded to include the following WNRL assets and related operations:

•Four Corners System - A pipeline system which includes pipelines in Northwestern New Mexico that gather and transport crude oil and condensate produced in the Four Corners area and deliver it to Andeavor’s Gallup refinery or to the TexNew Mex pipeline system. This Four Corners area crude oil is received at our Bloomfield terminal and at crude oil stations we own located in Bisti, Lybrook, Pettigrew and Star Lake, New Mexico;

•Permian Basin System - A pipeline system which includes the Delaware Basin system and other crude oil gathering assets in West Texas. It consists of 39 miles of pipelines located in Southeast New Mexico and West Texas and handles crude oil produced in the Delaware Basin. The system includes other crude gathering assets in West Texas that handle crude oil produced in the Permian Basin. The TexNew Mex pipeline extends 299 miles from our Four Corners system to the Delaware Basin; and

•Crude Trucking - A fleet of crude oil trucks, which are utilized to gather, transport and deliver crude oil from collection points in Colorado, New Mexico and Utah to Andeavor’s El Paso and Gallup refineries and their interconnected pipelines.

Competition

Andeavor Logistics’ competition primarily comes from independent terminal and pipeline companies, integrated petroleum companies, refining and marketing companies and distribution companies with marketing and trading arms. Competition in particular geographic areas is affected primarily by the volumes of refined products produced by refineries located in those areas, the availability of refined products and the cost of transportation to those areas from refineries located in other areas.

Andeavor Logistics may compete with third-party terminals for volumes in excess of minimum volume commitments under its commercial agreements with us and third-party customers as other terminals and pipelines may be able to supply our refineries or end user markets on a more competitive basis, due to terminal location, price, versatility and services provided. If our customers reduced their purchases of refined products from us due to the increased availability of less expensive product from other suppliers or for other reasons, we may only receive or deliver the minimum volumes through Andeavor Logistics’ terminals (or pay the shortfall payment if we do not deliver the minimum volumes), which would decrease our revenues.

Andeavor Logistics’ common carrier crude oil gathering and transport systems consist of common carrier pipelines in North Dakota and Montana (“High Plains System”) and common carrier pipelines in New Mexico and Texas (“Southwest System”), which gather and transport crude oil into major regional takeaway pipelines and refining centers. The High Plains System and Southwest System compete with a number of transportation companies for gathering and transporting crude oil produced in the Bakken Shale/Williston Basin area of North Dakota and Montana (“Bakken Region”) and the Delaware and Midland Basins (“Southwest Region”), respectively. Andeavor Logistics may also compete for opportunities to build gathering lines from producers or other pipeline companies. Other companies have existing pipelines that are available to ship crude oil and continue to (or have announced their intent to) expand their pipeline systems in the Bakken and Southwest Regions. Andeavor Logistics also competes with third-party carriers that deliver crude oil by truck.

Although Andeavor Logistics competes for third-party shipments of crude oil on the High Plains System and Southwest System, contractual relationships with us under the High Plains transportation services agreement (the “High Plains Pipeline Transportation Services Agreement”), Southwest pipeline and gathering services agreement (the “Southwest Pipeline and Gathering Services Agreement”) and related connections to our refineries provide a strong competitive position in the regions.

  December 31, 2017 | 11

Business

Andeavor Logistics’ competitors for natural gas gathering and processing include other midstream companies and producers. Competition for natural gas volumes and processing is primarily based on reputation, commercial terms, reliability, service levels, flexibility, access to markets, location, available capacity, capital expenditures and fuel efficiencies. In addition to competing for crude oil and natural gas volumes, Andeavor Logistics faces competition for customer markets, which is primarily based on the proximity of the pipelines to the markets, price and assurance of supply.

Safety

Terminal Safety

Terminal operations are subject to regulations under OSHA and comparable state and local regulations. Terminal facilities are operated in a manner consistent with industry safe practices and standards. The storage tanks that are at Andeavor Logistics’ terminals are designed for crude oil and refined products and are equipped with appropriate controls that minimize emissions and promote safety. Terminal facilities have response and control plans, spill prevention and other programs to respond to emergencies. Terminals are regulated under the Homeland Standards or USCG Transportation Act, which are designed to regulate the security of high–risk chemical facilities.

Pipeline Safety

Pipelines, gathering systems and terminal operations are subject to increasingly strict safety laws and regulations. The transportation and storage of refined products, natural gas and crude oil involve a risk that hazardous liquids or natural gas may be released into the environment, potentially causing harm to the public or the environment. The U.S. Department of Transportation, through the PHMSA and state agencies, enforces safety regulations governing the design, construction, operation, maintenance, inspection and management of our pipeline and storage facilities. These regulations require the development and implementation of pipeline integrity management programs, which include the inspection and testing of pipelines and the investigation of anomalies and if necessary, corrective action. These regulations also require that pipeline operation and maintenance personnel meet certain qualifications and that pipeline operators develop comprehensive spill response plans, including extensive spill response training for pipeline personnel.

Andeavor Logistics may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventative or mitigation measures associated with its pipelines. These costs and liabilities might relate to repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, as well as lost cash flows resulting from shutting down our pipelines during such repairs. Additionally, if Andeavor Logistics fails to comply with PHMSA or comparable state regulations, it could be subject to penalties and fines. If future PHMSA regulations impose new regulatory requirements on our assets, the costs associated with compliance could have a material effect on Andeavor Logistics’ operations.

While Andeavor Logistics operates and maintains pipelines consistent with applicable regulatory and industry standards, it cannot predict the outcome of legislative or regulatory initiatives, which could have a material effect on its operations, particularly by extending more stringent and comprehensive safety regulations to pipelines and gathering lines not previously subject to such requirements. While Andeavor Logistics expects any legislative or regulatory changes to allow us time to comply with new requirements, costs associated with compliance may have a material effect on operations.

Rail Safety

Andeavor Logistics’ rail operations are limited to loading and unloading rail cars at our facilities. Generally, rail operations are subject to federal, state and local regulations. Andeavor Logistics believes its rail car loading and unloading operations meet or exceed all applicable regulations.

Natural Gas Plant Safety

Natural gas processing plants and operations are subject to safety regulations under OSHA and comparable state and local requirements. A number of Andeavor Logistics’ natural gas processing facilities are also subject to OSHA’s process safety management regulations and the EPA’s risk management plan requirements. Together these regulations are designed to prevent or minimize the probability and consequences of an accidental release of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive chemicals. A number of our facilities are also regulated under the Homeland Standards, which are designed to regulate the security of high-risk chemical facilities. Andeavor Logistics’ natural gas processing plants and operations are operated in a manner consistent with industry safe practices and standards.

 Refining

Overview

We currently own and operate ten petroleum refineries located in the western and mid-continent United States with a combined crude oil capacity of approximately 1.2 million barrels per day. Our Refining segment buys and refines crude oil and other feedstocks into transportation fuels that we sell to a wide variety of customers. Demand for gasoline is higher during the spring and summer months than during the fall and winter months in most of our markets due to seasonal changes in vehicle miles 

12 |  

Business

traveled. As a result, our operating results for both the Refining and Marketing segments for the first and fourth quarters are typically lower than the second and third quarters.

Regions

We currently operate the Refining segment in three separate regions: California, Pacific Northwest and Mid-Continent. Our geographic footprint and physically integrated logistics and marketing businesses enable our refineries to interact across these regions providing higher asset utilization and lower operating costs while maintaining well-balanced product supplies to better serve our customers.

Feedstock Purchases

We purchase crude oil and other feedstocks from domestic and foreign sources either through the spot market or term agreements with renewal provisions and volume commitments. The domestic crude oil we purchase, which makes up 67% of our purchases based on volumes, is produced primarily in North Dakota, Alaska, California, Texas, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming. The remaining 33% of our purchases consists of foreign crude oil produced in South America, the Middle East, Canada, western Africa, Asia and other locations.

Our refineries process both heavy and light crude oil. Light crude oil, when refined, produces a greater proportion of higher value transportation fuels such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and as a result is typically more expensive than heavy crude oil. In contrast, heavy crude oil produces more low value by-products and heavy residual oils. These lower value products can be upgraded to higher value products through additional, more complex and expensive refining processes.

Refined Products

The total products produced in the refining process are referred to as the refining yield. The refining yield consists primarily of transportation fuels, including gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel and diesel fuel, but may also include other products such as heavy fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas, petroleum coke, calcined coke and asphalt.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Our refineries operate other units such as vacuum distillation, naptha reforming, hydrotreating, butane isomerization, deasphalting, and alkylation units. The table above provides an overview of the largest units at each refinery.

(b)The throughput and yield amounts for the El Paso, St. Paul Park and Gallup refineries are calculated based on volumes from June 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017 and divided by 214 days.

(c)The majority of internally produced fuel is consumed during the refining process.

(d)Refined product sales may exceed our yield due to purchased refined products.

  December 31, 2017 | 13

Business

Logistics Assets

Terminal and Pipelines

We transport, store and distribute crude oil, feedstocks and refined products through our terminals and pipelines or terminals and pipelines owned by Andeavor Logistics and third-parties in our market areas as well as through purchases and exchange arrangements with other refining and marketing companies. Our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges. The transportation links that connect our refineries allow for movement of intermediate and finished products, which permit us to optimize our value chain and maximize utilization.

Marine

We charter tankers to optimize the transportation of crude oil, feedstocks, and refined products to support our refinery system and ensure adequate shipping capacity. Our current U.S.-flag and foreign-flag tanker time charters will expire with varying dates between 2018 and 2022, unless we exercise renewal options. We also time charter tug and barge units and a ship assist tug with varying expiration dates through 2018, unless we exercise renewal options. We continually look to optimize our marine fleet and minimize costs, and from time to time we sub-charter vessels in our fleet to third-parties to maintain high utilization. All of our chartered tankers and barges are double-hulled.

Rail

We maintain a fleet of leased rail cars to transport crude and refined products in support of our refining operations.

Refined Product Sales

Our Marketing segment provides a committed outlet for the majority of gasoline as well as some of the diesel fuel produced by our refineries; however, we also sell gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel, diesel fuel, heavy fuel oils and residual products in the western and mid-continental U.S. and northern Mexico. We also export bulk shipments of products into certain foreign markets. Our bulk sales are primarily to independent unbranded distributors, other refining and marketing companies, utilities, railroads, airlines and marine and industrial end-users. Our sales include refined products that we manufacture, purchase or receive through exchange arrangements.

Sales of Purchased Products

In the normal course of business, we purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale through our marketing and bulk operations to our customers to meet local market demands and fulfill supply commitments. We purchase these refined products, primarily gasoline, jet fuel, diesel fuel and industrial and marine fuel blendstocks, mainly in the spot market.

Competition

We obtain most of our crude oil from third-party sources and compete in the world market for the crude oil and feedstocks we process, and for the customers who purchase refined products. The availability and cost of crude oil and other feedstocks, as well as the prices of the products we produce, are heavily influenced by global supply and demand dynamics.

We compete with other refiners and with importers for customers in our market areas including sales of our distillate production through wholesale and bulk channels. Competition and concentrations specific to each of our refineries are:

•Our Martinez, Los Angeles and Anacortes refineries compete with several refiners in the U.S., Canada and throughout the Pacific Rim;

•Our Kenai refinery competes with two other in-state refineries along with refineries on the West Coast and in Asia. Our jet fuel sales in Alaska are concentrated in Anchorage, where we are one of the principal suppliers at the Anchorage International Airport; and

•Our mid-continent refineries in Mandan, Dickinson, Salt Lake City, El Paso, Gallup and St. Paul Park compete with supplies provided from refineries in surrounding states and pipeline supply from the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions.

Government Regulation and Legislation

Regulatory Controls and Expenditures

Like other companies engaged in similar businesses, we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, regional and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the environment, including those governing emissions or discharges to land, air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination. While we believe our facilities are in substantial compliance with current requirements, we will continue to engage in efforts to meet new legislative and regulatory requirements applicable to our operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to make significant expenditures.

14 |  

Business

For example:

•The EPA has promulgated multiple regulations to control greenhouse gas emissions under the Federal Clean Air Act. The first of these regulations, finalized on April 1, 2010, set standards for the control of greenhouse gas emissions from light trucks and cars. The U.S. Congress may also consider legislation regarding greenhouse gas emissions in the future.

•The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 mandates the blending of increasing amounts of renewable fuels in the supply of transportation fuels used domestically. This use of renewable fuels is required of all manufacturers and importers of transportation fuels sold domestically. The EPA implemented the RFS2 through regulation and RFS2 requires transportation fuel manufacturers to provide proof of purchase of these renewable fuels. The costs associated with RFS2 compliance are uncertain and fluctuate with market dynamics.

•The EPA finalized amendments to the Clean Air Act Risk Management Planning regulations in 2016 significantly expanding the regulatory requirements.

•The DOT issued new regulations in 2015 governing the design of rail cars used to transport petroleum and other materials.

•In California, SB 32 set a new greenhouse gas emission reduction requirement of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030. AB 197 mandated direct emission reductions of greenhouse gases from large stationary sources such as our refineries. AB 32, previously created a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions now replaced by SB 32 but also created a low carbon fuel standard, which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of fuels by 2020.

•In California, the Board for the South Coast Air Quality Management District passed amendments to RECLAIM on December 4, 2015. The RECLAIM Amendments became effective in 2016 and required a staged reduction of Nitrogen Oxides through 2022.

•In California, new and expanded Process Safety Management and Refinery Safety and Prevention regulations were proposed in 2016 in response to recommendations made in 2014 by the Governor’s Interagency Refinery Safety Working Group.

The impact of these and other regulatory and legislative developments is likely to result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions on our business and an increase in the cost of the products we manufacture. Depending on market conditions, we may attempt to pass these costs on to consumers. If that is not possible, the changes could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We cannot currently determine the amounts of such future impacts. For additional information regarding our environmental matters see “Environmental and Other Matters” in Item 7.

Oil Spill Prevention and Response

We operate in environmentally sensitive coastal waters, where tanker, pipeline, rail cars and other petroleum product transportation operations are regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. The transportation of crude oil and refined products involves risk and subjects us to the provisions of the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and related state requirements, which require that most petroleum refining, transport and storage companies maintain and update various oil spill prevention and oil spill contingency plans. Our spill prevention plans and procedures are frequently reviewed and modified to prevent releases and to minimize potential impacts to land and water should a release occur. We have submitted these plans and received federal and state approvals necessary to comply with the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and related regulations. At our facilities adjacent to water, federally certified OSROs are available to respond to a spill on water from above ground storage tanks or pipelines. We have contracts in place to ensure support from the respective OSROs for spills in both open and inland waters, as well as on land.

We currently charter tankers to ship crude oil from foreign and domestic sources to our California, Washington and Alaska refineries. The tanker owners contract with OSROs to comply with federal, state and local requirements, except in Alaska where we contract with the OSROs. The OSROs are capable of responding to an oil spill equal to the greatest tanker volume delivering crude oil to our refineries. Those volumes range from 350,000 barrels to two million barrels.

We have entered into spill-response contracts with various OSROs to provide spill-response services, if required, to respond to a spill of oil originating from our facilities. We have spill-response agreements in Alaska with Cook Inlet Spill Prevention and Response, Incorporated and with Alyeska Pipeline Service Company. We also have entered into contracts with Marine Spill Response Corporation for the San Francisco Bay, Puget Sound, the Port of Los Angeles and the Port of Long Beach, and the Clean Rivers Cooperative, Inc. for the Columbia River, and Bay West, Inc. in our Mid-Continent region, which includes our new St. Paul Park refinery. We contract with H2O Environmental, Inc. for our El Paso and Gallup refineries which are supplied by pipeline. These OSROs are capable of responding to an oil spill on water equal to the greatest volume above ground storage tank at our facilities or pipelines. Those volumes range from 50,000 to 600,000 barrels. We also contract with one spill-response organization outside the U.S. to support our shipments in foreign waters. In addition, we contract with various spill-response specialists to ensure appropriate expertise is available for any contingency. We believe these contracts provide the additional services necessary to meet or exceed all regulatory spill-response requirements and support our commitment to environmental stewardship.

The OSROs we contract with have the highest available rating and certification from the U.S. Coast Guard and are required to annually demonstrate their response capability to the U.S. Coast Guard and state agencies. We maintain our own spill-response 

  December 31, 2017 | 15

Business

resources to mitigate the impact of a spill from a tanker at our refineries until an OSRO can deploy its resources. Our spill response capability meets the U.S. Coast Guard and state requirements to either deploy on-water containment equipment two and one-half times the length of a vessel at our dock or have smaller vessels available.

The services provided by the OSROs principally consist of operating response-related equipment, managing certain aspects of a response and providing technical expertise. The OSROs provide various resources in response to an oil spill. The resources include dedicated vessels that have skimming equipment to recover oil, storage barges to temporarily store recovered oil, containment boom to control the spread of oil on water and land and to protect shorelines, and various pumps and other equipment supporting oil recovery efforts and the protection of natural resources. The OSROs have full-time personnel and contract with third parties to provide additional personnel when needed.

As a general matter, our agreements with these organizations do not contain specific physical or financial limitations. General physical limitations of these organizations would include the geographical area for which services are available and the amount of resources available at the initiation of a request for services or the duration of response and recovery efforts.

Additionally, we require all tankers and barges engaged in moving crude oil, heavy and finished products to be double hulled. All vessels used by us to transport crude oil and refined products over water are examined or evaluated and subject to our approval prior to their use.

Rail Car Safety

Andeavor maintains a fleet of leased rail cars to transport crude and support our refining operations. Generally, rail operations are subject to federal, state and local regulations. Andeavor has a significant number of new DOT120J200 tank cars in its crude oil fleet, which exceed the new federal standards issued by the DOT during 2015. The DOT regulations allow for an orderly phase out or retrofit of previous generation rail cars. We have retrofitted a significant portion of the previous generation of rail cars in our fleet to the new DOT117 standard. Andeavor will continue to comply with all regulatory requirements and explore and invest in tank car technology that provides a shared value for Andeavor, our rail carriers and the communities where we operate.

Regulation of Pipelines

Operations on portions of our pipelines are regulated by state agencies in Alaska and California. In addition, Andeavor Logistics owns and operates crude oil, refined product and natural gas pipelines, which are common carriers regulated by various federal, state and local agencies. The FERC regulates interstate transportation on Andeavor Logistics’ Four Corners System, High Plains System, Northwest Products Pipeline and natural gas pipeline, Permian Basin System and TexNew Mex System under the Interstate Commerce Act, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws.

Federal regulation of interstate pipelines extends to such matters as rates, services, and terms and conditions of service; the types of services offered to customers; the certification and construction of new facilities; the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities; the maintenance of accounts and records; relationships between affiliated companies; the initiation and continuation of services; market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases or transportation of commodities; and participation by interstate pipelines in cash management arrangements.

The intrastate operation of Andeavor Logistics’ Alaska pipeline is regulated by the Regulatory Commission of Alaska. The state regulatory authorities require that we notify shippers of proposed tariff increases to provide the shippers an opportunity to protest the increases. In addition to challenges to new or proposed rates, challenges to existing intrastate rates are permitted by complaint of an interested person or by independent action of the appropriate regulatory authority. The intrastate operations of Andeavor Logistics’ High Plains System in North Dakota are regulated by the North Dakota Public Service Commission, its operations in the Four Corners system in New Mexico are regulated by the New Mexico Public Service Commission and its Permian Basin system operations in New Mexico and Texas are regulated by both the New Mexico Public Service Commission and the Texas Rail Commission. Applicable state law requires that pipelines operate as common carriers, that access to transportation services and pipeline rates be non-discriminatory, that if more crude oil is offered for transportation than can be transported immediately the crude oil volumes transported be apportioned equitably and that pipeline rates be just and reasonable.

Executive Officers

The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages and their positions at Andeavor, effective as of February 21, 2018. There are no family relationships among the officers listed and there are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of them were elected as officers. Officers are elected annually by our Board in conjunction with the annual meeting of stockholders. The term of each office runs until the corresponding meeting of the Board in the next year or until a successor has been elected or qualified. Positions held for at least the past five years for each of our executive officers are described below (positions, unless otherwise specified, are with Andeavor).

Gregory J. Goff, 61, has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since May 2010 and as our Chairman since December 31, 2014. Since December 2011, Mr. Goff has also served as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC, the general partner of Andeavor Logistics. Prior to joining us, Mr. Goff served as Senior Vice 

16 |  

Business

President, Commercial for ConocoPhillips Corporation, an international, integrated energy company, from 2008 to 2010. Mr. Goff also held various other positions at ConocoPhillips from 1981 to 2008, including Managing Director and CEO of Conoco JET Nordic from 1998 to 2000; Chairman and Managing Director of Conoco Limited, a UK-based refining and marketing affiliate, from 2000 to 2002; President of ConocoPhillips Europe and Asia Pacific downstream operations from 2002 to 2004; President of ConocoPhillips U.S. Lower 48 and Latin America exploration and production business from 2004 to 2006; and President of ConocoPhillips specialty businesses and business development from 2006 to 2008. Mr. Goff is a member of the board of directors of the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers trade association and on the National Advisory Board of the University of Utah Business School. Previously, Mr. Goff served on the board of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company and was a member of the upstream and downstream committees of the American Petroleum Institute. In addition, Mr. Goff has public company experience from his current and prior service on several public company boards. Mr. Goff holds a Bachelor’s degree in Science and a Master’s degree in Business Administration from the University of Utah.

Keith M. Casey, 51, has served as our Executive Vice President, Commercial and Value Chain, since May 2017, having previously served as Executive Vice President, Marketing and Commercial from August 2016 to May 2017, as Executive Vice President, Operations from May 2014 to August 2016, and as Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development from April 2013 to May 2014. Before joining Andeavor, Mr. Casey served as Vice President, BP Products North America, Texas City Refinery beginning in September 2006. Mr. Casey holds a Bachelor of Science in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering from California Polytechnic State University San Luis Obispo.

Michael J. Morrison, 60, has served as Senior Vice President, Marketing since April 2016. Prior to that, he served at Conoco, ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66 for more than 30 years in various strategic and leadership roles within marketing, strategy, logistics, optimization, and commercial supply and trading including most recently, as Global Crude Oil Trading Lead and Lead Executive for the London office of Phillips 66. Mr. Morrison holds a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Missouri and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from DePauw University.

Kim K.W. Rucker, 51, has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since March 2016. Prior to joining Andeavor, Ms. Rucker served as Executive Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Kraft Foods Group, Inc., a food and beverage company, from October 2012 until July 2015. She joined Mondelēz International as Executive Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs, Kraft Foods North America in September 2012. Prior to that, Ms. Rucker served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of Avon Products, Inc., a global manufacturer of beauty and related products, beginning in March 2008, and assumed additional duties as Corporate Secretary in February 2009. Ms. Rucker also served as Senior Vice President, Secretary and Chief Governance Officer of Energy Future Holdings Corp. (formerly TXU Corp.), an energy company, from 2004 to 2008. She was also Corporate Counsel for Kimberly-Clark Corporation and a Partner in the Corporate & Securities group at the law firm of Sidley Austin LLP. Ms. Rucker serves on the board of directors of Lennox International Inc. She holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Economics from the University of Iowa, a law degree from the Harvard Law School and a Master in Public Policy degree from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.

Steven M. Sterin, 46, has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2014. From August 2016 to May 2017, he also led corporate development in support of our growth plans. Mr. Sterin also serves as President, Chief Financial Officer and Director of Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC, the general partner of Andeavor Logistics. Prior to joining Andeavor, Mr. Sterin served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Celanese Corporation, a global technology and specialty material company, from July 2007 until May 2014 and continued to serve as an employee until August 2014. From December 2010 through January 2013, he was President of Celanese’s Advanced Fuel Technologies business. Mr. Sterin joined Celanese in 2003 as Director of Finance and Controller for the company’s chemical business and served as Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer before being appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2007. Before Celanese, Mr. Sterin spent six years with global chemicals company Reichhold, Inc., a subsidiary of Dainippon Ink & Chemicals, in a variety of financial positions, including Director of Tax and Treasury in the Netherlands, Global Treasurer and Vice President of Finance for one of the company’s divisions in North Carolina. He started his professional career at Price Waterhouse in 1995. Mr. Sterin has nearly 20 years of financial leadership and over 10 years of large public company chief financial officer experience. He has also served as a member of the Dean’s advisory council at the Red McCombs School of Business (University of Texas at Austin). Mr. Sterin holds a Master of Professional Accounting degree and a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Accounting, from the University of Texas at Austin. He is also a certified public accountant in Texas.

Cynthia J. Warner, 59, has served as Executive Vice President, Operations since August 2016. Prior to her current role, Mrs. Warner served as Executive Vice President, Strategy and Business Development from October 2014 to August 2016. Before joining Andeavor, Mrs. Warner served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Sapphire Energy beginning in 2009. Ms. Warner is a non-executive director for IDEX Corporation and also serves on the board of the National Manufacturer’s Association and the Vanderbilt University School of Engineering Board of Visitors. She is a member of the National Petroleum Council. Ms. Warner holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Chemical Engineering from Vanderbilt University and a Master of Business Administration degree from the Illinois Institute of Technology.

Blane W. Peery, 51, has served as Vice President and Controller of Andeavor and Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC since November 2016. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Process Excellence and Chief Information Officer from February 2015 through 

  December 31, 2017 | 17

Business

October 2016. From March 2014 to February 2015, Mr. Peery served as VP, Global Business Services at Mylan N.V., a leading global pharmaceutical company. Prior to that he worked for Celanese Corporation, a global technology and specialty materials company, for over 20 years in roles with increasing responsibility, including positions as its Vice President, Global Business Services from October 2012 to March 2014 and its Vice President, Supply Chain from October 2011 to October 2012. Mr. Peery is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), as well as a Certified Management Accountant (CMA) and Certified in Financial Management (CFM). Mr. Peery holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Accounting from the University of Texas at Austin.

Stephan E. Tompsett, 41, has served as Vice President and Treasurer of Andeavor and Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC since August 2016. He previously served as Chief Financial Officer, Logistics for a subsidiary of Andeavor from May 2015 to August 2016. Prior to that time, Mr. Tompsett served in a variety of finance roles at Energy Transfer Partners from February 2011 to May 2015. From September 2008 to January 2011, he was Vice President, Corporate Development at Synthesis Energy Systems. He was an associate at JPMorgan from July 2005 to August 2008. Mr. Tompsett holds a Master of Business Administration degree from the Red McCombs School of Business at University of Texas at Austin, and a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology and Mathematics from the University of Texas at Austin.

Item 1A.Risk Factors