PART I   

 Item 1. BUSINESS   

 General   

 Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries have approximately 118,700 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the health care field. Johnson & Johnson is a holding company, which has more than 250 operating companies conducting business in virtually all countries of the world. Johnson & Johnson’s primary focus has been on products related to human health and well-being. Johnson & Johnson was incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1887.  

 The Company’s structure is based on the principle of decentralized management. The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson is the principal management group responsible for the operations and allocation of the resources of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics business segments. Each subsidiary within the business segments is, with some exceptions, managed by citizens of the country where it is located.  

 Segments of Business   

 Johnson & Johnson’s operating companies are organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the narrative and tabular (but not the graphic) descriptions of segments and operating results under the captions “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” on pages 34 through 43 and Note 11 “Segments of Business and Geographic Areas” under “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 55 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.  

 Consumer  

 The Consumer segment includes a broad range of products used in the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women’s health care fields, as well as nutritional and over-the-counter pharmaceutical products. The Baby Care franchise includes the JOHNSON’S® Baby line of products. Major brands in the Skin Care franchise include the AVEENO®; CLEAN & CLEAR®; JOHNSON’S® Adult; NEUTROGENA®; RoC®; LUBRIDERM®; Beijing Dabao Cosmetics Co., Ltd.; and Vendôme product lines. The Oral Care franchise includes the LISTERINE® and REACH® oral care lines of products. Major brands in the Women’s Health franchise are the CAREFREE® Pantiliners and STAYFREE® sanitary protection products. The nutritional and over-the-counter lines include SPLENDA®, No Calorie Sweetener; the broad family of TYLENOL® acetaminophen products; SUDAFED® cold, flu and allergy products; ZYRTEC® allergy products; MOTRIN® IB ibuprofen products; and PEPCID® AC Acid Controller from Johnson & Johnson • Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co. These products are marketed principally to the general public and sold both to wholesalers and directly to independent and chain retail outlets throughout the world.  

 Pharmaceutical  

 The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following therapeutic areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic, cardiovascular, contraceptive, dermatology, gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology, pain management, urology and virology. These products are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for prescription use by the general public. Key products in the Pharmaceutical segment include: REMICADE® (infliximab), a biologic approved for the treatment of Crohn’s disease, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, ulcerative colitis, and use in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis; TOPAMAX® (topiramate), approved for adjunctive and monotherapy use in epilepsy, as well as for the prophylactic treatment of migraines; PROCRIT® (Epoetin alfa, sold outside the U.S. as EPREX®), a biotechnology-derived product that stimulates red blood cell production; RISPERDAL® oral (risperidone), a medication that treats the symptoms of schizophrenia, bipolar mania and irritability associated with autistic behavior in indicated patients, RISPERDAL® CONSTA® (risperidone), a long-acting injectable, and INVEGATM (paliperdone) Extended-Release tablets, for the treatment of schizophrenia; LEVAQUIN® (levofloxacin) and FLOXIN® (ofloxacin), both in the anti-infective field; CONCERTA® (methylphenidate HCl), a product for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; ACIPHEX®/PARIET®, a proton pump inhibitor co-marketed with Eisai Inc.; and DURAGESIC®/Fentanyl Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system, sold outside the U.S. as DUROGESIC®), a treatment for chronic pain that offers a novel delivery system.  
 Medical Devices and Diagnostics  

 The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad range of products distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers, used principally in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, diagnostic laboratories and clinics. These products include Cordis’ circulatory disease management products; DePuy’s orthopaedic joint reconstruction, spinal care and sports medicine products; Ethicon’s surgical care and women’s health products; Ethicon Endo-Surgery’s minimally invasive surgical products; LifeScan’s blood glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics’ professional diagnostic products and Vistakon’s disposable contact lenses. Distribution to these health care professional markets is done both directly and through surgical supply and other dealers.   

 Geographic Areas   

 The international business of Johnson & Johnson is conducted by subsidiaries located in 56 countries outside the United States, which are selling products in virtually all countries throughout the world. The products made and sold in the international business include many of those described above under “— Segments of Business — Consumer,” “— Pharmaceutical” and “— Medical Devices and Diagnostics.” However, the principal markets, products and methods of distribution in the international business vary with the country and the culture. The products sold in international business include not only those developed in the United States, but also those developed by subsidiaries abroad.  

 Investments and activities in some countries outside the United States are subject to higher risks than comparable U.S. activities because the investment and commercial climate is influenced by restrictive economic policies and political uncertainties.   

 Raw Materials   

 Raw materials essential to Johnson & Johnson’s operating companies’ businesses are generally readily available from multiple sources.   

 Patents and Trademarks   

 Johnson & Johnson and its operating companies have made a practice of obtaining patent protection on their products and processes where possible. They own or are licensed under a number of patents relating to their products and manufacturing processes, which in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance to Johnson & Johnson in the operation of its businesses. Sales of the Company’s two largest products, REMICADE® (infliximab) and TOPAMAX® (topiramate), accounted for approximately 6% and 4% of Johnson & Johnson’s total revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2008. Accordingly, the patents related to these products are believed to be material to Johnson & Johnson as a whole.  

 The material patents that expired in 2007 and 2008 are related to RISPERDAL® (risperidone), which expired in the United States in December 2007, and TOPAMAX®, which expired in the United States in September 2008. The Company has received pediatric extensions for RISPERDAL® oral and TOPAMAX® from the FDA, which granted market exclusivity in the United States through June 2008 and March 2009, respectively. The next significant patent scheduled to expire on December 20, 2010 is for LEVAQUIN® (levofloxacin), which accounted for 2.5% of the Company’s 2008 sales. A pediatric extension for LEVAQUIN® was granted by the FDA, which extends market exclusivity in the United States through June 20, 2011.  

 Johnson & Johnson’s operating companies have made a practice of selling their products under trademarks and of obtaining protection for these trademarks by all available means. These trademarks are protected by registration in the United States and other countries where such products are marketed. Johnson & Johnson considers these trademarks in the aggregate to be of material importance in the operation of its businesses.  

 2   
 Seasonality   

 Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, spending has been heavier in the fourth quarter of each year than in other quarters. This reflects increased spending decisions, principally for advertising and research and development activity.   

 Competition   

 In all of their product lines, Johnson & Johnson’s operating companies compete with companies both large and small, located throughout the world. Competition is strong in all product lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. Competition in research, involving the development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant. The development of new and improved products is important to Johnson & Johnson’s success in all areas of its businesses. This also includes protecting the Company’s portfolio of intellectual property. The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research and multiple sales forces. In addition, the development and maintenance of customer acceptance of the products of Johnson & Johnson’s consumer businesses involves significant expenditures for advertising and promotion.   

 Research and Development   

 Research activities represent a significant part of Johnson & Johnson’s subsidiaries’ businesses. Major research facilities are located not only in the United States but also in Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore and the United Kingdom. The costs of worldwide Company-sponsored research activities relating to the development of new products, improvement of existing products, technical support of products and compliance with governmental regulations for the protection of consumers and patients, excluding in-process research and development charges, amounted to $7.6 billion, $7.7 billion and $7.1 billion for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These costs are charged directly to expense, or directly against income, in the year in which incurred.   

 Environment   

 Johnson & Johnson’s operating companies are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental protection measures. Johnson & Johnson believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Johnson & Johnson’s compliance with these requirements did not during the past year, and is not expected to, have a material effect upon its capital expenditures, cash flows, earnings or competitive position.   

 Regulation   

 Most of Johnson & Johnson’s businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which operations are conducted, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation. In the United States, the drug, device, diagnostics and cosmetic industries have long been subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of broad regulatory powers by the FDA continues to result in increases in the amounts of testing and documentation required for FDA clearance of new drugs and devices and a corresponding increase in the expense of product introduction. Similar trends are also evident in major markets outside of the United States.  

 The costs of human health care have been and continue to be a subject of study, investigation and regulation by governmental agencies and legislative bodies around the world. In the United States, attention has been focused on drug prices and profits and programs that encourage doctors to write prescriptions for particular drugs or recommend, use or purchase particular medical devices. Payers have become a more potent force in the market place and increased attention is being paid to drug and medical device pricing, appropriate drug and medical device utilization and the quality and costs of health care. In the United States, implementation of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 may cause uncertainty in reimbursement levels in certain product segments.  

 3   
 The regulatory agencies under whose purview Johnson & Johnson’s operating companies operate have administrative powers that may subject those companies to such actions as product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, Johnson & Johnson’s operating companies may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls.  

 In addition, business practices in the health care industry have come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the United States, by government agencies and state attorneys general, and resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties.  

    Available Information    

 The Company’s main corporate Web site address is www.jnj.com. Copies of Johnson & Johnson’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Annual Report on Form 10-K and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), and any amendments to the foregoing, will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company or by calling 1-800-950-5089. All of the Company’s SEC filings are also available on the Company’s Web site at www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm, as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC’s Web site at www.sec.gov. In addition, the written charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Benefits Committee and the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors and the Company’s Principles of Corporate Governance, Policy on Business Conduct for employees and Code of Business Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers are available at the www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm Web site address and will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request, as provided above.   

 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS