Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

 This document, including "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," and the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contain both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the Company's current expectations concerning future results and events. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of statements that include phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "likely," "will" or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe the Company's objectives, plans or goals are or may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. More information about these risks, uncertainties and other factors is set forth below. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that the Company does not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. The forward-looking statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.  

RISK FACTORS  

 For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could affect our business and financial results. The factors described below are considered to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on the Company's future results. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.  

A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Company's Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets  

The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on its broadcast and basic cable networks, television stations, radio stations, outdoor media and syndicated programming. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers, the economy in general or the economy of any individual geographic market, particularly a major market such as Los Angeles, New York or Chicago, in which the Company owns and operates sizeable businesses, could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures may also be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences. In addition, advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial and pharmaceutical segments, represent a significant portion of the Company's advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a reduction in these sectors' advertising expenditures may adversely affect the Company's revenue. Advertisers' willingness to purchase advertising from the Company may also be affected by a decline in audience ratings for the Company's programming, the inability of the Company to retain the rights to popular programming, increasing audience fragmentation caused by the proliferation of new media formats, including cable networks, the Internet and video-on-demand and the deployment of portable digital devices which allow consumers to time shift programming and skip or fast-forward through advertisements. The Company's revenues from outdoor advertising also depend on the Company's continued ability to obtain the right to use effective outdoor advertising space. Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and results of operations.  

I-23 

The Company's Success Is Dependent upon Audience Acceptance of Its Content, Particularly Its Television and Radio Programs, Which Is Difficult to Predict  

Television and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a television or radio program, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the program, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television or radio program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that the Company receives. The use of new ratings technologies and measurements could have an impact on the Company's program ratings. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. For example, there can be no assurance that any replacement programming on the Company's radio or television stations will generate the same level of revenues or profitability of previous programming. In addition, the success of the Company's cable networks and Simon & Schuster is similarly dependent on audience acceptance of its programming and publications, respectively. Consequently, low public acceptance of the Company's content, particularly its television and radio programs, will have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.  

Failure by the Company to Obtain, Create and Retain the Rights in Popular Programming Could Adversely Affect the Company's Revenues  

Operating results from the Company's programming businesses fluctuate primarily with the acceptance of such programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. The Company's revenue from its television and radio business is therefore partially dependent on the Company's continued ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Company derives a portion of its revenues from the exploitation of its extensive library of television programming. Generally, a television series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication. If the content of its television programming library ceases to be widely accepted by audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular content, the Company's revenues could be adversely affected. The Company obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of CBS Television Network's most widely viewed broadcasts, including certain NCAA championships, golf's Masters Tournament and PGA Championship, and NFL games, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that the Company has negotiated with third parties. In addition, Showtime Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights to certain programming for  Showtime, The Movie Channel and FLIX from motion picture producers and other suppliers for varying durations, and CBS Radio acquires the broadcast rights to syndicated shows and to various programs, such as sports events from third parties. Competition for popular programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and the Company may be outbid by its competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming currently licensed by the Company. The Company's failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content could adversely affect the Company's revenues.  

Any Decrease in Popularity of the Programming for Which the Company Has Incurred Significant Commitments Could Have an Adverse Effect on Its Profitability  

Programming and talent commitments of the Company, estimated to aggregate approximately $11.41 billion as of December 31, 2007, primarily included $7.47 billion for sports programming rights, $2.47 billion relating to television, radio and film production and licensing and $973.2 million for talent contracts, with $771.5 million of these amounts payable in and after 2013. A shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the sports events for which the Company has acquired rights, or in the television and radio programming the Company expects to air, could lead to decreased profitability or losses for a significant period of time.  

I-24 

The Company's Operating Results Are Subject to Seasonal Variations  

The Company's business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on people's viewing, reading and listening habits. Typically, the Company's revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter and Simon & Schuster generates a substantial portion of its revenues in the fourth quarter. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results.  

The Company's Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries  

The Company competes with other media companies for high quality content and attractive outdoor advertising space to achieve large audiences and to generate advertising revenue. The Company also competes for distribution on various cable, DTH satellite and other platforms. The Company's ability to attract viewers and advertisers and obtain favorable distribution depends in part on its ability to provide popular television, syndicated programming and radio programming and books, as well as well-placed outdoor advertising faces. In addition, the consolidation of advertising agencies, distributors and television service providers has made competition for viewers, advertising revenue, and distribution more intense. In addition, consolidation among book retailers and the growth of on-line sales have resulted in increased competition for limited physical shelf space for the Company's publications and for the attention of consumers on-line. Competition for viewers and advertising comes from: broadcast television stations and networks; cable television systems and networks; the Internet; terrestrial and satellite radio and portable digital audio players; outdoor advertisers; local, regional and national newspapers; direct mail; and other communications and advertising media that operate in these markets. Other television and radio stations or cable networks may change their formats or programming, a new station or new network may adopt a format to compete directly with the Company's stations or networks, or stations or networks might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. This competition could result in lower ratings and advertising and subscription revenues or increased promotional and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for the Company. The Company cannot be assured that it will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.  

The Company Must Respond to Rapid Changes in Technology, Content Creation, Services and Standards in Order to Remain Competitive  

Video, telecommunications, radio and data services technologies used in the entertainment industry are changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage, could have a negative effect on the Company's businesses. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, satellite radio, new video and electronic book formats, user-generated content sites, Internet and mobile distribution of video content, streaming and downloading from the Internet and digital outdoor displays. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on a time-delayed basis and technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs and portable digital devices, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the Company's offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect its revenues. Also, the growing acceptance of user-generated content sites may adversely impact the Company's businesses. In addition, further increases in the use of portable digital devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect the Company's radio and television broadcasting advertising and subscription revenues. Cable providers and DTH satellite operators are developing new techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. More television options increase competition for viewers and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain  

I-25 

an advantage over the Company for television advertising and subscription revenues. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect the Company's ability to continue to grow and increase its revenue.  

Increased Programming and Content Costs May Adversely Affect the Company's Profits  

The Company produces and acquires programming and content and incurs costs for all types of creative talent, including actors, authors, writers and producers. An increase in the costs of such programming and content or in the costs for creative talent may lead to decreased profitability.  

Piracy of the Company's Programming and Other Content, Including Digital and Internet Piracy, May Decrease Revenue Received from the Exploitation of the Company's Programming and Other Content and Adversely Affect Its Businesses and Profitability  

Piracy of programming is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances allowing conversion of programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of the Company's content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products has an adverse effect on the Company's businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that the Company potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its products and services. In addition, if piracy were to increase, it would have an adverse effect on the Company's businesses and profitability.  

Changes in U.S. Communications Laws or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Business  

The television and radio broadcasting and distribution industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. For example, the Company is required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate its radio and television stations. The Company cannot be assured that the FCC will approve its future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of the Company's licenses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues. The Company must also comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of its television and radio stations and its television networks. FCC regulations prohibit the ownership of more than one of the top four networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, and limit the number of television and radio stations that a licensee can own in a market and the number of television stations that can be owned nationwide, which could restrict the Company's ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require it to divest some television or radio stations. As part of the nationwide transition from analog to digital broadcasting, the Company's full power television stations are required to transmit a digital signal 100% of the time they are transmitting an analog signal. This requirement increases the Company's operating costs. At the end of the analog-to-digital period, which is scheduled to occur in February 2009, these television stations will be required to cease analog transmissions. The Company is unable to predict the extent to which consumers will acquire digital television receivers or digital conversion devices for analog television receivers and the effect of the cessation of analog broadcasting on viewership. In addition, the Company is unable to predict the extent or timing of consumer demand for digital television services and the resulting impact on the Company's viewership. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations, and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation and ownership of the Company's radio and television properties. For example, from time to time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to require radio and television broadcast stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free or at a reduced charge. Any restrictions on political advertising may adversely affect the Company's advertising revenues. Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition faced by the Company. Proposals have also been advanced from time to time before the U.S. Congress and the FCC to extend the program access rules (currently applicable only to those cable  

I-26 

program services which also own or are owned by cable distribution systems) to all cable program services. The Company's ability to obtain the most favorable terms available for its content could be adversely affected should such an extension be enacted into law. In addition, changes in international laws may have an adverse impact on the Company's international businesses. The Company is unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on its operations.  

Vigorous Enforcement or Enhancement of FCC Indecency and Other Program Content Rules Against the Broadcast and Cable Industries Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Businesses and Results of Operations  

The FCC's rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC's indecency/profanity definition, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry. The FCC has stepped up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency, and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for "serious" indecency violations. The FCC has found on a number of occasions that the content of radio and television broadcasts has contained indecent material. In such instances, the FCC issued fines or advisory warnings to the offending licensees. Moreover, the FCC has in some instances imposed separate fines for each allegedly indecent "utterance," in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. In addition, pursuant to legislation enacted by the U.S. Congress, in July 2007, the FCC increased the fines for broadcasting indecent material to a maximum of $325,000 per utterance. If the FCC denied a license renewal or revoked the license for one of the Company's broadcast radio or television stations, the Company would lose its authority to operate the station. The determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content could violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCC's indecency rules adds significant uncertainty to the Company's ability to comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions which may adversely affect the Company's businesses and results of operations. Some policymakers support the extension of the indecency rules that are applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming and/or attempts to increase enforcement of or otherwise expand existing laws and rules. If such an extension, attempt to increase enforcement or other expansion took place and were found to be constitutional, some of the Company's cable content could be subject to additional regulation and might not be able to attract the same subscription and viewership levels.  

The Loss of Affiliation Agreements or Retransmission Agreements Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Results of Operations  

The CBS Television Network provides its affiliates with up to 98 hours of programming per week. In return, the CBS Television Network's affiliated stations broadcast network-inserted commercials during that programming. Loss of network affiliation agreements of the CBS Television Network could adversely affect the Company's results of operations by reducing the reach of the Company's programming and therefore its attractiveness to advertisers, and renewal on less favorable terms may also adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The non-renewal or termination of retransmission agreements with distributors such as Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable Inc., DIRECTV Holdings LLC, or EchoStar Communications Corporation or continued distribution on less favorable terms, could also adversely affect the Company's ability to distribute its network programming to a nationwide audience and affect the Company's ability to sell advertising, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. Showtime Networks and the CSTV cable network are also dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with cable, DTH satellite and other operators, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to such programmers. The loss of one or more of these arrangements could reduce the distribution of Showtime Networks' and CSTV's program services and reduce revenues from subscriber fees and  

I-27 

advertising, as applicable. Further, the loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscriber fees. In addition, consolidation among cable and DTH satellite operators and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast network business have provided more leverage to these providers and could adversely affect the Company's ability to maintain or obtain distribution for its network programming or distribution and/or marketing of its subscription program services on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all.  

The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Transmitter Facilities that the Company Depends Upon to Distribute Its Programming Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Businesses and Results of Operations  

The Company uses satellite systems to transmit its broadcast and cable networks to affiliates. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, the Company may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company's businesses and results of operations. In addition, each of the Company's television and radio stations and cable networks uses studio and transmitter facilities that are subject to damage or destruction. Failure to restore such facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company's businesses and results of operations.  

The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill, Intangible Assets, FCC Licenses and Programming  

In accordance with SFAS 142, the Company will test goodwill and intangible assets, including broadcast licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142 and a non-cash charge would be required. Any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. Any such charge could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reported net earnings.  

The Loss of Key Personnel, Including Talent, Could Disrupt the Management or Operations of the Company's Business and Adversely Affect Its Revenues  

The Company's business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of its chief executive officer and other key employees and entertainment personalities. The Company believes that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by its executive officers would be difficult to replace, and that the loss of its executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the impairment of the Company's ability to execute its business strategy. Additionally, the Company employs or independently contracts with several entertainment personalities and authors with significant loyal audiences. Entertainment personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a television or radio station and, therefore, the ability of the station to sell advertising, and an author's popularity can be significantly responsible for the success of a particular book. There can be no assurance that these entertainment personalities and authors will remain with the Company or will retain their current audiences or readership. If the Company fails to retain these entertainment personalities and authors or they lose their current audiences or readership, the Company's revenues could be adversely affected.  

Regulation of the Outdoor Advertising Industry Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Outdoor Business  

The outdoor advertising industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation and enforcement at the federal, state and local levels in the U.S. and to national, regional and local restrictions in foreign countries. These regulations and enforcement actions can affect the operation and continuance of  

I-28 

operations of advertising displays and include restrictions on the construction, repair, upgrading, height, size and location of outdoor advertising structures and, in some instances, the content of advertising copy that can be displayed on these structures. In addition, outdoor advertising is the subject of targeted state and municipal taxes. Such laws may reduce the Company's expansion opportunities or may increase competitive pressure from others. The Company cannot give any assurance that existing or future laws or regulations will not materially and adversely affect its outdoor business.  

Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Results of Operations  

Certain of the Company's revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations.  

The Company's Liabilities Related to Discontinued Operations and Former Businesses Could Adversely Impact Its Financial Condition  

The Company has both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities, contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. The Company cannot be assured that its reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, operating performance or cash flow.  

The Company Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity  

The Company and its suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect the Company's television and radio businesses by causing delays in the production of the Company's television or radio programming or the Company's outdoor business by disrupting its ability to place advertising on outdoor faces. On February 12, 2008, the industry-wide strike of the freelance writers represented by the Writers Guild of America (East and West), which began on November 5, 2007, was settled. Depending on their duration, strikes or work stoppages could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and operating income.  

Political and Economic Risks Associated with the Company's International Businesses Could Harm the Company's Financial Condition or Results of Operations  

The Company's businesses operate and have customers worldwide. Inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. The Company may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where it does business. In addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures, which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.  

NAI, Through Its Voting Control of the Company, Is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval  

NAI, through its beneficial ownership of the Company's Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors, and Ms. Shari Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Company's Board of Directors. In addition, Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the  

I-29 

Company. NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of control. Other stockholders are unable to affect the outcome of the corporate actions of the Company for so long as NAI retains voting control.  

Many Factors May Cause the Stock Price of the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to Fluctuate  

The stock price of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond the Company's control, include:    

•lack of a significant trading history since the Separation; 

•actual or anticipated fluctuations in CBS Corp.'s operating results; 

•changes in expectations as to CBS Corp.'s future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; 

•success of CBS Corp.'s operating and growth strategies; 

•investor anticipation of strategic, technological or regulatory threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; 

•operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and 

•realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors.   

In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of the Company's common stock, regardless of the Company's actual operating performance.  

Risks Related to the Separation 

The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes  

So long as the Company and Viacom Inc. are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, will be attributable to the other company for purposes of certain rules and regulations of the FCC and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the U.S., among others potentially. The businesses of one company will continue to be attributable to the other company for certain FCC purposes even after the two companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the two companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of Viacom Inc. may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to the Company.  

The Separation Agreement Prohibits the Company from Engaging in Certain Types of Businesses  

Under the terms of the Separation Agreement entered into between the Company and Viacom Inc. in connection with the Separation, the Company may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind Viacom Inc. or subjects Viacom Inc. to restrictions it is not otherwise subject to by legal order without Viacom Inc.'s consent. The Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed that prior to the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the Separation, (2) the date on which none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI, or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both the Company and Viacom Inc. that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the Separation, neither of them will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to U.S. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors that the other company is not then subject to. These restrictions could limit the strategic business alternatives available to the Company.  

I-30 

The Tax Matters Agreement and the Tax Rules Applicable to the Separation May Restrict the Company's Ability to Engage in Certain Corporate Transactions  

In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into a tax matters agreement dated December 30, 2005, which is filed as an exhibit to this report, effective as of the Separation (the "Tax Matters Agreement"). The Tax Matters Agreement provides, among other things, that, depending on the event, Viacom Inc. may have to indemnify the Company, or the Company may have to indemnify Viacom Inc., for some or all of the taxes resulting from the merger and the distribution of Viacom Inc. common stock in the merger if the merger and distribution do not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In addition, the current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that the distribution of Viacom Inc. common stock in the merger would be taxable to Former Viacom, but not to its stockholders, if either Viacom Inc. or the Company engages in, or enters into an agreement to engage in, a transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change, by vote or value, in the Company's or Viacom Inc.'s stock ownership during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of the Separation, unless it is established that the transaction was not undertaken pursuant to a plan or series of transactions related to the Separation. The Treasury Regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether such distribution is part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the Treasury Regulations. In addition, the Treasury Regulations provide several "safe harbors" for acquisition transactions that are not considered to be part of a plan. The indemnification obligations set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement and the above-described provisions of the tax law may prevent the Company from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to its stockholders, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, and may make the Company less attractive to a potential acquirer and reduce the possibility that an acquirer will propose or seek to effect certain transactions with the Company.  

If the Merger Is Determined to Be Taxable, the Company and Its Stockholders Could Be Subject to a Material Amount of Taxes  

Former Viacom received an opinion of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP and a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), in each case, to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the merger and the distribution of Viacom Inc. common stock in the merger qualified as a tax-free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the Code and the distribution of the Company's common stock in the merger was also generally tax-free to Former Viacom and its stockholders. In accordance with current IRS ruling policy, the IRS ruling does not address certain significant issues relating to qualification under Section 355 of the Code and, as to those issues, Former Viacom relied on an opinion of counsel. The merger was structured to be tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes to Former Viacom stockholders, except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional shares of CBS Corp. common stock. The merger was also tax-free to the Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except with respect to taxes arising out of foreign and other internal restructurings undertaken in connection with the Separation and any "excess loss account" or "intercompany transaction" required to be taken into account by Former Viacom under the Treasury Regulations. The IRS ruling was based on the facts presented and representations made by Former Viacom in the ruling request. Generally, an IRS private letter ruling will not be revoked or modified retroactively unless there was an omission or misstatement of a material fact or a breach of a material representation. If the facts or representations are found to be incorrect or incomplete in a material respect or if the facts at the time of the Separation were materially different from the facts upon which the IRS ruling was based, the Company cannot rely on the IRS ruling. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or any court and is also based on representations and assumptions included therein. If the factual representations and assumptions were incorrect, the Company cannot rely on the tax opinion. If the merger is determined to be taxable, the Company and its stockholders who received shares of CBS Corp. common stock would be subject to a material amount of taxes. CBS Corp. will not indemnify any individual stockholder for any taxes that may be incurred in connection with the Separation.  

I-31 

In Connection with the Separation, Each Company Will Rely on the Other Company's Performance Under Various Agreements Between the Companies  

In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into various agreements, including the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, a transition services agreement pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. have agreed to provide certain specified services to each other following the Separation (the "transition services agreement") and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. will provide services and products to each other from and after the Separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the Company and Viacom Inc. following the Separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations are assumed by, each of the Company and New Viacom. Each company will rely on the other to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by the Company or Viacom Inc. under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. If Viacom Inc. were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the Company could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses.  

Certain Members of Management, Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest  

The management and directors of the Company may own both CBS Corp. common stock and Viacom Inc. common stock, and both the Company and Viacom Inc. are controlled by NAI. Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors and executive chairman of Viacom Inc.'s board of directors. Ms. Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the Company. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the Company's and Viacom Inc.'s management, directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for the Company and Viacom Inc. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between the Company and Viacom Inc. regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Separation and the relationship between the Company and Viacom Inc. thereafter. These agreements include, among others, the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the transition services agreement and any commercial agreements between the parties or their affiliates. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if the Company and Viacom Inc. enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future. Each of Mr. Redstone and Ms. Redstone may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of his or her time between the Company and Viacom Inc. CBS Corp.'s certificate of incorporation contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both the Company and Viacom Inc. CBS Corp.'s certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of the Company who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of Viacom Inc. acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both the Company and Viacom Inc., such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to the Company or Viacom Inc. or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to the Company and its stockholders. In addition, CBS Corp.'s certificate of incorporation provides that it renounces any interest in any such opportunity presented to Viacom Inc. These provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one of such companies may be used for the benefit of the other company.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

 Not applicable.  

I-32 

     Item 2. Properties.