PART I 

Item 1. Business.  

 CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") is a mass media company with operations in the following segments:    

•TELEVISION: The Television segment consists of CBS Television, comprised of the CBS® Television Network, the Company's 30 owned broadcast television stations, CBS Paramount Network Television and CBS Television Distribution, the Company's television production and syndication operations;  Showtime Networks™, the Company's premium subscription television program services; and CSTV College Sports Television® (to be rebranded CBS College Sports Network™ in March 2008), the Company's cable network and online digital media business devoted to college athletics. 

•RADIO: The Radio segment owns and operates 140 radio stations in 30 United States ("U.S.") markets through CBS Radio®. 

•OUTDOOR: The Outdoor segment displays advertising on media, including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in-car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks and stadium signage principally through CBS Outdoor® and in retail stores through CBS Outernet™. 

•PUBLISHING: The Publishing segment consists of Simon & Schuster, which publishes and distributes consumer books under imprints such as Simon & Schuster®, Pocket Books®, Scribner® and Free Press™.   

 For the year ended December 31, 2007, contributions to the Company's consolidated revenues from its segments were as follows: Television 66%, Radio 12%, Outdoor 16% and Publishing 6%. The Company generated approximately 12% of its total revenues from international regions in 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 66% and 18% of total international revenues of $1.72 billion were generated in Europe and Canada, respectively.  

 The separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corp. and new Viacom Inc. ("Viacom Inc."), was completed on December 31, 2005 (the "Separation"). The Separation was accomplished pursuant to a merger in which a subsidiary of Former Viacom was merged with and into Former Viacom, with Former Viacom continuing as the surviving entity. On December 31, 2005, Former Viacom was renamed "CBS Corporation" and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class A common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. class A common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of Viacom Inc. class A common stock and each outstanding share of Former Viacom class B common stock was converted into the right to receive .5 of a share of CBS Corp. class B common stock, $0.001 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), and .5 of a share of Viacom Inc. class B common stock. The results of Viacom Inc. have been presented as a discontinued operation for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

 In January 2008, the Company completed the sale of seven of its owned television stations to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for approximately $185 million. In November 2007, the Company completed the last of its sales of 39 radio stations in 10 of its smaller markets for $668.4 million in the aggregate. In October 2007, the Company acquired SignStorey, Inc. (renamed CBS Outernet), a distributor of video programming and advertising content to retail stores, for $71.5 million. In May 2007, the Company acquired Last.fm™, a global, community-based, music discovery Web site, for approximately $280 million. In April 2007, the Company completed an exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation under which the stock of a subsidiary of the Company which held CBS Corp.'s Green Bay television station and its satellite television station, valued at $64.0 million, and $169.8 million in cash was exchanged for the 7.6 million shares of CBS Corp. Class B Common Stock held by Liberty Media Corporation. In April 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of MaxPreps, Inc., an online high school sports network, for  

I-1 

$43.0 million. In June 2006, the Company completed the sale of Paramount Parks to Cedar Fair, L.P. for $1.24 billion in cash. Paramount Parks has been presented as a discontinued operation in the Company's consolidated financial statements.  

 As new technologies for delivering content and services evolve, the Company continues to pursue opportunities to distribute content to consumers through various platforms, including the Internet, mobile devices and video-on-demand. The Company is focused on utilizing interactive features to deepen and broaden its relationship with audiences. The Company has entered into various arrangements to extend the reach of its news, entertainment and other program content across a number of products and platforms with leading Internet, cable and mobile wireless companies, among others.  

 The Company competes with many different entities and media in various markets worldwide. In addition to competition in each of its businesses, the Company competes for opportunities in the entertainment business with other diversified international entertainment companies such as The Walt Disney Company, NBC Universal, Inc., News Corporation, Time Warner Inc. and Clear Channel Communications.  

 As of December 31, 2007, National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI"), a closely held corporation that owns and operates approximately 1,520 movie screens in the U.S., the United Kingdom ("U.K."), South America and Russia and manages 21 movie screens in the U.S. and the U.K., beneficially owned Class A Common Stock of the Company representing approximately 79% of the voting power of all classes of the Company's Common Stock, and approximately 13% of the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. Owners of the Company's Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share. The Company's Class B Common Stock does not have voting rights. NAI is not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling shareholder of NAI, is the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder of the Company.  

 The Company was organized in Delaware in 1986. The Company's principal offices are located at 51 W. 52nd Street, New York, New York 10019. Its telephone number is (212) 975-4321 and its Web site address is www.cbscorporation.com.  

CBS CORP. BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

 Television (66% of the Company's consolidated revenues in each of 2007, 2006 and 2005)  

 The Television segment consists of CBS Television, comprised of the CBS Television Network, the Company's 30 owned broadcast television stations and CBS Paramount Network Television and CBS Television Distribution, the Company's television production and syndication operations; Showtime Networks, its premium subscription television program services; and CSTV, its cable network and online digital media business devoted to college athletics.  

 Television Network. The CBS Television Network through CBS Entertainment™, CBS News® and CBS Sports® distributes a comprehensive schedule of news and public affairs broadcasts, sports and entertainment programming, and feature films to more than 200 domestic affiliates reaching throughout the U.S., including 16 of the Company's owned and operated television stations, and to affiliated stations in certain U.S. territories. The CBS Television Network primarily derives revenues from the sales of advertising time for its network broadcasts.  

 CBS Entertainment is responsible for acquiring or developing and scheduling the entertainment programming presented on the CBS Television Network, which includes primetime comedy and drama series, reality-based programming, made-for-television movies and miniseries, theatrical films, specials, children's programs, daytime dramas, game shows and late-night programs. CBS News operates a worldwide news organization, providing the CBS Television Network and the CBS Radio Network™ with regularly scheduled news and public affairs broadcasts, including 60 Minutes®, CBS Evening News with  

I-2 

 Katie Couric and The Early Show, as well as special reports. CBS News Productions, the off-network production company created by CBS News, produces programming for domestic and international outlets, including the CBS Television Network, cable television, home video, audio-book and in-flight markets, as well as schools and libraries. CBS News also provides CBS Newspath®, a television news syndication service that offers daily news coverage, sports highlights and news features to CBS Television Network affiliates and other subscribers worldwide. CBS Sports broadcasts include The NFL Today, certain NCAA championships, including the Final Four, golf, including the Masters Tournament and the PGA Championship, the U.S. Open Tennis Championships, regular-season college football and basketball line-ups on network television, in addition to the NFL's American Football Conference regular season schedule, the Postseason Divisional Playoff games and the AFC championship game. In 2004, CBS Sports entered into a six-year rights extension with the NFL to broadcast the AFC beginning in 2006 and including two Super Bowls. Extending its franchises, CBS Sports has the marketing rights for the 2003-2013 NCAA Championships, including coordination of licensing, merchandising, related multimedia and television, and other related business opportunities. CBS Home Entertainment licenses home video rights and CBS Consumer Products licenses merchandising rights.  

 The CW, a broadcast network and 50/50 joint venture with Warner Bros. Entertainment, was launched in Fall 2006. The CW's programming includes America's Next Top Model and Everybody Hates Chris. Nine of the Company's owned television stations are affiliates of The CW.  

 Through CBS Interactive, the Internet sites associated with CBS Entertainment (CBS.com), CBS News (CBSNews.com), CBS Sports (CBSSports.com), and entertainment news (TheShowBuzz.com) are combined to provide key platforms for promotion, as well as exposure to the brands of these divisions to the broadband Internet audience while creating new revenue streams primarily through advertising, online consumer products, such as fantasy sports leagues and video-on-demand. The four sites leverage the content of the CBS Television Network on the Internet and on other emerging media platforms, including wireless, video-on-demand and interactive television. In 2007, the Company acquired Last.fm, a community-based, music discovery Web site, which reaches approximately 21.0 million unique global monthly visitors,  WallStrip.com™,  which produces and syndicates a daily Web show focused on financial news, and  Dotspotter.com™, which provides celebrity news and social networking capabilities. In 2007, these sites collectively received approximately 7.3 billion pageviews and attracted an average audience of approximately 14.7 million U.S. monthly unique visitors according to Nielsen/NetRatings.  

 In furtherance of the Company's desire to expand its audience reach and develop new revenue opportunities, CBS Television Network news, entertainment and other program content is also available through various third party arrangements. The Company's CBS Audience Network™, created in April 2007, delivers the Company's content through new and existing advertiser-supported deals including with: AOL (for the distribution of CBS programming on Video.AOL.com and other AOL Web properties), Microsoft (providing the ability to search for, browse and play content from CBS programming on MSN TV), CNET Networks (for streaming the Company's content on TV.com), Comcast (for distribution of CBS programming on Comcast's entertainment sites such as Comcast.net and Fancast), Joost (for distribution of CBS programming on Joost's Internet television service including links to more information and message boards), Bebo (for distribution of CBS programming to Bebo's social networking Web site) and Veoh (for viewing CBS content on customized channels on Veoh.com), among others. During 2007, certain games of the 2007 NCAA® Division I Men's Basketball Championship were streamed as they were broadcast by CBS Sports through NCAA® March Madness On Demand™, an on-demand, advertiser-supported streaming service, and game highlights were available via the CBS Sports NCAA Tournament Channel on YouTube. In August 2007, the Company teamed with four leading mobile advertising companies to build a mobile advertising platform for its news, entertainment and sports programming. In October 2006, the Company's CBS Television Network, Showtime Networks and CSTV Networks began providing programming clips to YouTube, Inc. pursuant to a content and advertising arrangement in which the Company and YouTube share advertising revenue. In June 2006, certain of CBS Television Network's  

I-3 

primetime programming became available, including CSI: programs, on Apple's iTunes Music Store. The CBS Audience Network also has arrangements with the Company's radio and television stations and most of its affiliated television stations, which offer broader Internet exposure for the locally produced content of these stations and greater online advertising opportunities for local and national advertisers. The Company's Internet operations and related arrangements derive revenue from a combination of advertising, sponsorships, subscription services and e-commerce activities.  

 In late September 2007, at the beginning of the 2007–2008 broadcast season, Nielsen Media Research introduced a new television measurement system based on commercial viewership rather than program viewership. The new standard allows for the inclusion of both live and delayed viewing of commercials up to three days after live broadcasts and has become the industry standard for the buying and selling of television commercial time.  

 Television Stations. The Company owns 30 broadcast television stations through its CBS Television Stations group, all of which operate under licenses granted by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the "Communications Act"). The licenses are renewable every eight years. The Company's television stations are located in the 8 largest, and 15 of the top 20, television markets in the U.S. The Company owns multiple television stations within the same designated market area ("DMA") in 9 major markets. These multiple station markets are: Los Angeles (market #2), Philadelphia (market #4), Dallas-Fort Worth (market #5), San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose (market #6), Boston (market #7), Detroit (market #11), Miami-Ft. Lauderdale (market #16), Sacramento-Stockton-Modesto (market #20), and Pittsburgh (market #22). This network of television stations enables the Company to reach a wide audience within and across geographically diverse markets in the U.S. The stations produce news and broadcast public affairs, sports and other programming to serve their local markets and offer CBS, The CW or MyNetworkTV programming and syndicated programming. The CBS Television Stations group principally derives its revenues from the sale of advertising time on its television stations. Substantially all of the Company's television stations currently operate Web sites, which promote the stations' programming, and provide news, information and entertainment, as well as other services. Since October 2006, pursuant to an exclusive video syndication arrangement, local news video from 17 of the Company's television stations has been available on Yahoo!. CBS and Yahoo! share revenue from advertising sold adjacent to CBS stations' content on the site.  

 The Company's owned and operated television stations reach approximately 39% of all U.S. television households and approximately 36% of U.S. television households as measured by the FCC's television national audience reach limitation under which a VHF television station is deemed to reach 100% of the television households in its market and a UHF television station is deemed to reach 50% of the television households in its market. The FCC's ownership rules limit the Company's national audience reach to 39% of all U.S. television households. (See "CBS Corp. Business Segments—Regulation—Broadcasting—Ownership Regulation").  

Television Stations 

 The table below sets forth the broadcast television stations owned by the Company as of February 15, 2008.   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

I-4 

     [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(1)Metropolitan Area Served is Nielsen Media Research's DMA. 

(2)Market Rankings based on Nielsen Station Index—DMA Market and Demographic Rank, September 2007. 

(3)KCCO-TV is operated as a satellite station of WCCO-TV. 

(4)KCCW-TV is operated as a satellite station of WCCO-TV. 

(5)WBXI-CA is a Class A low power television station. Class A low power television stations do not implicate the FCC's ownership rules.  

I-5 

 Television Production and Syndication. The Company, through CBS Paramount Network Television and CBS Television Distribution (including King World Productions, CBS Paramount Domestic Television and CBS Paramount International Television), produces, acquires and/or distributes programming worldwide, including series, specials, news, public affairs and made-for-television movies. Such programming is produced primarily for broadcast on network television, exhibition on basic cable and premium subscription services or distribution via first-run syndication. First-run syndication is programming exhibited on television stations without prior exhibition on a network or cable service. The Company also distributes off-network syndicated programming, which is programming exhibited on television stations or cable networks following its exhibition on a network, basic cable network or premium subscription service.  

 Programming that was produced or co-produced by the Company's production group and is broadcast on network television includes, among others, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation (CBS) and Medium (NBC). Generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for broadcast on the network in the U.S. during a license period. Remaining distribution rights, including foreign and/or off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by the Company or, in the case of co-productions, distribution rights are shared with the co-producer for U.S. or foreign markets. The network license fee for a series episode is normally lower than the costs of producing the episode; however, the Company's objective is to recoup its costs and earn a profit through domestic syndication of episodes after their network runs and/or by licensing international exhibitions of the episodes. International sales are generally made within one year of U.S. network runs. Generally, a series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication. In off-network syndication, the Company distributes series such as CSI:, CSI: Miami, CSI: NY, Medium, Survivor and America's Next Top Model as well as a library of older television programs. The Company also produces and/or distributes first-run syndicated series such as Jeopardy!, Entertainment Tonight, The Oprah Winfrey Show, Dr. Phil,  Rachael Ray and Judge Judy. The Company also distributes syndicated programming internationally.  

 License fees for completed television programming in syndication and on cable are recorded as revenues in the period that the products are available for exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in the Television segment's operating results. Unrecognized revenues attributable to such license agreements were approximately $582.9 million and $675.5 million at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively.  

 Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks owns and operates three commercial-free, premium subscription television program services in the U.S.: Showtime, offering recently released theatrical feature films, original series, original motion pictures, documentaries, boxing, mixed martial arts, concerts and other special events; The Movie Channel™, offering recently released theatrical feature films and related programming; and Flix®, offering theatrical feature films primarily from the 70s, 80s and 90s, as well as selected other titles. At December 31, 2007, Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix, in the aggregate, had approximately 54.8 million subscriptions in the U.S., certain U.S. territories and Bermuda.  

 Showtime Networks also owns and operates several multiplexed channels of Showtime and The Movie Channel in the U.S. which offer additional and varied programming choices. In addition, Showtime Networks transmits high definition television feeds of  Showtime and The Movie Channel and also makes versions of Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix available "on demand," enabling subscribers to watch selected individual programs at their convenience. Showtime Networks also provides special events, such as high-profile boxing matches, to licensees on a pay-per-view basis through Showtime PPV®. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Showtime Networks entered into an agreement with Pro Elite, Inc. that provides mixed martial arts events for exhibition on Showtime and possible pay-per-view distribution. Showtime Networks also operates the Web site  SHO.com which promotes Showtime, The Movie Channel and  Flix programming, and provides information and entertainment and other services.  

I-6 

 Showtime Networks derives revenue principally from the license of its program services to cable television operators, direct-to-home ("DTH") satellite operators, telephone companies and other distributors. The costs of acquiring premium television rights to programming and producing original series are the principal expenses of Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights, with an emphasis on acquiring exclusive rights for Showtime and The Movie Channel, from major or independent motion picture producers and other distributors typically covering the U.S. and Bermuda for varying durations. For example, Showtime Networks has the exclusive U.S. premium subscription television rights for certain exhibition windows relating to Paramount Pictures' feature films initially theatrically released in the U.S. through December 2007. Showtime Networks also arranges for the development, production and acquisition of original programs, series, documentaries and motion pictures. Showtime Networks' original series include  Dexter, Californication, The Tudors, Weeds, Brotherhood and The L Word, among others. Showtime Networks has entered into and may from time to time enter into co-financing, co-production and/or co-distribution arrangements with other parties to reduce the net cost to Showtime Networks for its original programming. In addition, Showtime Networks derives distribution revenue from the rights it retains in certain of its original programming. For example, Showtime Networks has entered into licenses with television networks in various foreign territories for exhibition of certain original series, as well as electronic sell-through arrangements with several Internet distributors, including iTunes and Amazon, among others, for certain Showtime programming.  

 Showtime Networks is also a manager and 37% owner of Sundance Channel®, a venture among Showtime Networks, an affiliate of Robert Redford and NBC Universal, Inc. Sundance Channel is a subscription television program service in the U.S., dedicated to independent film, featuring original programming, American independent films, documentaries, foreign and classic art films, shorts and animation. Showtime Networks owns 90% of and manages Smithsonian Networks, a venture with Smithsonian Institution. In September 2007, this venture launched Smithsonian Channel™, a linear high definition program service, in the U.S. This channel features programs of a cultural, historical, scientific and educational nature. The Company owns 85% of OurChart.com LLC, a venture with the creator and executive producer of The L Word. In January 2007, this venture launched OurChart.com, a Web site which features social networking and content from multiple sources, including The L Word. Showtime Networks provides a variety of services to this venture pursuant to a services agreement.  

 CSTV. CSTV Networks (to be rebranded CBS College Sports Network in March 2008) includes a cable program service featuring events from approximately 30 men's and women's college sports, with approximately 24.3 million subscribers as of February 1, 2008, and CSTV Online, which operates cstv.com and provides services and develops Web sites for approximately 260 college athletic affiliates. In addition, cstv.com, which supports the related cable program service and online properties, and the college athletic Web sites reached approximately 6.8 million U.S. monthly unique visitors in November 2007, according to Nielsen/NetRatings. In September 2006, the mtn: MountainWest Sports Network was launched. CSTV Networks and Comcast Corporation each owns a 50% interest in  the mtn, which exhibits Mountain West Conference athletics and is available to U.S. cable and satellite providers.  MaxPreps.com is the Company's online high school sports network, which reached approximately 1.0 million U.S. monthly unique visitors in November 2007 according to Nielsen/Net Ratings. CSTV Networks derives its revenues from subscription fees and the sale of advertising time on its cable program service and online properties.  

I-7 

Television Competition  

 Television Network. The television broadcast environment is highly competitive. The principal methods of competition in broadcast television are the development and acquisition of popular programming and the development of audience interest through programming and promotion, in order to sell advertising at profitable rates. Broadcast networks like CBS compete for audience, advertising revenues and programming with other broadcast networks such as ABC, FOX, NBC, The CW and MyNetworkTV, independent television stations, cable program services as well as other media, including DVDs, print and the Internet. In addition, the CBS Television Network competes with the other broadcast networks to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the country, which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of network programming to a nationwide audience. According to Nielsen Media Research, for the broadcast television primetime daypart for the period September 24, 2007 to January 27, 2008, the CBS Television Network secured the #1 position for total viewers and for key adult viewers ages 25-54 and the #2 position for key adult viewers ages 18-49.  

 Television Stations. Television stations compete for programming, on-air talent, audiences and advertising revenues with other stations and cable networks in their respective coverage areas and, in some cases, with respect to programming, with other station groups, and, in the case of advertising revenues, with other local and national media. The owned and operated television stations' competitive position is largely influenced by the quality of the syndicated programs and local news programs in time periods not programmed by the network; the strength of the CBS Television Network and, in particular, the viewership of the CBS Television Network in the time period immediately prior to the late evening news; and in some cases, by the quality of the broadcast signal.  

 In connection with the conversion to digital television broadcasting, current and future technological and regulatory developments may affect competition within the television marketplace. (See "CBS Corp. Business Segments—Regulation—Broadcasting").  

 Television Production and Syndication. As a producer and distributor of programming, the Company competes with studios, television production groups, and independent producers and syndicators such as Disney, Sony, NBC Universal, Warner Bros. and Fox to produce and sell programming both domestically and overseas. The Company also competes to obtain creative talent and story properties which are essential to the success of all of the Company's entertainment businesses.  

 Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks primarily competes with other providers of premium subscription television program services in the U.S.: Home Box Office, Inc. and Starz Entertainment Group, L.L.C. Competition among premium subscription television program services in the U.S. is dependent on: (i) the production, acquisition and packaging of original series and other original programming and the acquisition and packaging of an adequate number of recently released theatrical motion pictures; and (ii) the offering of prices, marketing and advertising support and other incentives to cable operators, DTH satellite operators, telephone companies and other distributors for carriage so as to favorably position and package Showtime Networks' premium subscription television program services to subscribers. Home Box Office, Inc. is the dominant company in the U.S. premium subscription television category, offering two premium subscription television program services, HBO and Cinemax. Showtime Networks competes with Home Box Office, Inc. and has a significantly smaller share of the premium subscription television category. Starz Entertainment Group, L.L.C. owns Starz!, another premium subscription television program service, which primarily features recently released theatrical motion pictures and competes with Showtime Networks' and Home Box Office, Inc.'s premium program services. Showtime Networks also competes for programming, distribution and/or audiences with broadcast television, basic cable program services and other media, including DVDs, portable devices and the Internet.  

 The terms and favorable renewal of agreements with distributors for the distribution of the Company's subscription television program services are important to the Company. Consolidation among  

I-8 

multichannel video programming distributors makes it more difficult to reach favorable terms and could have an adverse effect on revenues.  

 CSTV. CSTV Networks' cable programming service principally competes with other sports-oriented cable programming services for cable and satellite distribution and related revenue, for viewership and for advertising revenue. Consolidation among cable operators has made it more difficult for newer channels to secure broad distribution. In addition, the largest cable providers have created sports tiers for newer sports programming services which have not, in many cases, achieved significant subscriber penetration or acceptance. CSTV Networks' television service also competes with other sports programming services in acquiring the television and broadband rights to sporting events, resulting in increased rights fees and increased production expenses. CSTV Online operates cstv.com and serves as the exclusive Web site service provider to many university athletic departments and other college sports-related organizations. CSTV Online competes with other sports-based Web sites and sports information sources for users, subscribers to its packages of streamed events and site sponsors. In addition, it competes with several other Web site service providers which serve the same market; as a result, CSTV Online may incur increased expenses to maintain its network of university affiliates.  

 Radio (12%, 14% and 15% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively)  

 The Company's radio broadcasting business operates through CBS Radio, which owns and operates 140 radio stations serving 30 U.S. markets as of February 15, 2008. CBS Radio is one of the largest operators of radio stations in the U.S. Virtually all of the Company's owned and operated radio stations are located in the 50 largest U.S. radio markets and approximately 76% in the 25 largest U.S. radio markets. The Company's strategy generally is to operate radio stations in the largest markets and take advantage of the Company's ability to sell advertising across multiple markets and formats. In November 2007, the Company completed the last of its sales of 39 radio stations in 10 of its smaller markets. The Company believes that it is favorably impacted by offering radio, television and outdoor advertising platforms in large markets. The "Radio Stations, Television Stations and Outdoor Advertising Displays" table below includes information with respect to the Company's radio stations in the top 25 U.S. radio markets.  

 CBS Radio's geographically dispersed stations serve diverse target demographics through a broad range of formats such as rock, oldies, all-news, talk, adult contemporary, sports and country, and CBS Radio has established leading franchises in news, sports and personality programming. This diversity provides advertisers with the convenience of selecting stations to reach a targeted demographic or of selecting groups of stations to reach broad groups of consumers within and across markets and also reduces the Company's dependence on any single station, local economy, format or advertiser. At the same time, CBS Radio maintains substantial diversity in each market where its stations operate so that its stations can appeal to several demographic groups. CBS Radio's general programming strategies include employing popular on-air talent, some of whose broadcasts may be syndicated by CBS Radio using the services of a third party syndicator, broadcasting programming syndicated to it by others, acquiring the rights to broadcast sports play-by-play and producing and acquiring news content for its 140 radio stations. The overall mix of each radio station's programming lineup is designed to fit the station's specific format and serve its local community.  

 A new electronic audience measurement technology, Arbitron Portable People Meter™, is in the process of being introduced in radio markets and the Company will be monitoring the effects of this new ratings system on the ratings of the Company's radio stations and advertising sales.  

 The majority of CBS Radio's revenues are generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising. The major categories of radio advertisers include: automotive, retail, healthcare, telecommunications, fast food, beverage, movies, entertainment and services. CBS Radio is able to use the reach, diversity and branding of its radio stations to create unique division-wide marketing and promotional initiatives for major national advertisers of products and services. The success and reputation  

I-9 

of CBS Radio and its stations allow the Company to attract the participation of major artists in these national campaigns. Advertising expenditures by local advertisers fluctuate, which has an effect on CBS Radio's revenues.  

 The Company also owns the CBS Radio Network, which is managed by Westwood One, Inc. As of December 31, 2007, the Company owned approximately 18% of the common stock of Westwood One, Inc., which it manages pursuant to a management agreement which has a term expiring on March 31, 2009. On October 2, 2007, CBS Radio and Westwood One entered into definitive agreements including, among others, agreements relating to the termination of management and representation arrangements, and modification and extension of certain arrangements involving compensation to the Company, the provision of radio programming (principally news and traffic) by Westwood One to CBS Radio and the distribution by Westwood One of CBS Radio News. The termination, modification and extension of these arrangements are subject to certain closing conditions. Westwood One is a leading producer and distributor of syndicated and network radio programming in the U.S. and distributes syndicated and network radio programming, including traffic and weather information, to radio stations, including many of the Company's radio stations. Westwood One does not own or operate radio stations.  

 CBS Radio is extending its station brands online, through efforts that include streaming, on-demand, podcasting and developing radio station Web sites with content and video. For example, over 140 audio streams of CBS Radio stations and custom channels are available online, including such top brands as 1010 WINS and WFAN-AM, each in New York, and KROQ-FM in Los Angeles. Visitors to CBS Radio's Web sites also have access to searchable video content through CBS Radio's arrangement with AOL's Truveo service.  

 Radio Competition. The Company's radio stations directly compete within their respective markets for audience, advertising revenues and programming with other radio stations, including those owned by other group owners such as Clear Channel Communications, Citadel Broadcasting, Cox Radio, Emmis Communications, Entercom and Radio One. The Company's radio stations also compete with other media, such as broadcast, cable and DTH satellite television, other radio stations, newspapers, magazines, the Internet and direct mail.  

 The radio industry is also subject to competition from two satellite-delivered audio programming services, Sirius Satellite Radio and XM Satellite Radio, each providing over 170 channels of pay digital audio services. Sirius and XM sell advertising time on some of their channels and compete with the radio industry for programming. In February 2007, these two companies announced plans to merge, subject to regulatory approvals.  

 The Company's radio stations face increasing competition from audio programming delivered via the Internet and from consumer products such as portable digital audio players. These new technologies create new ways for individuals to listen to music and other content of their choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements. An increasingly broad adoption by consumers of portable digital audio players could affect the ability of the Company's radio stations to attract listeners and advertisers.  

 The radio broadcast industry is converting from analog to digital broadcasts. Currently, approximately 1,500 radio stations are broadcasting in the U.S. using digital technology. The Company has joined other broadcast radio groups to form the HD Digital Alliance Association (the "Digital Alliance"), which is committed to accelerate the conversion of over 2,000 additional AM and FM stations to digital radio technology over the next several years, including the conversion of a substantial number of the Company's radio stations. As of February 1, 2008, 103 of the Company's owned radio stations have been converted. Members of the Digital Alliance have also agreed to provide two digital audio broadcasts on each of their radio stations. One will be a digital rebroadcast of the station's analog signal and the other will be used to offer a broad range of unique programming on a limited commercial basis while digital transmissions continue to be implemented. Implementing its agreement with the Digital Alliance, CBS Radio has announced a line-up of multicast programming for over 66 of its radio stations in 26 markets. The Company believes that digital transmissions will provide listeners with improved sound quality and should  

I-10 

facilitate the convergence of radio with other digital media. It is too early to predict the full effect that the conversion to digital will have on the Company's radio businesses or on competition generally.  

 Aggregate spot advertising sales revenues for the Company's radio stations for 2007 were ranked #1 in four of the top five U.S. markets by metro area population (New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Dallas-Fort Worth), according to the 2007 Market Total Spot Performance Summary of Miller, Kaplan, Arase & Co., LLP.  

Radio Stations, Television Stations and Outdoor Advertising Displays 

 The following table sets forth information with regard to the Company's radio stations, television stations and outdoor advertising displays as of February 15, 2008 in the top 25 U.S. radio markets:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

I-11 

     [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

I-12 

     [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1)   Radio market rank based on Fall 2007 Radio Market Ranking as provided by Arbitron Inc. Television market rank based on Nielsen Station Index—DMA Market and Demographic Rank, September 2007.  

 (2)   Sub-market of New York City. The Company's New York City radio and television stations serve Nassau-Suffolk.    

 Outdoor (16%, 15% and 14% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively)  

 The Company sells, through its Outdoor businesses, advertising space on various media, including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in-car, station platform and terminal), mall kiosks and stadium signage and in retail stores. It has outdoor advertising operations in more than 100 markets in North America, including all 50 of the largest metropolitan markets in the U.S., 19 of the 20 largest metropolitan markets in Canada and all 45 of the largest metropolitan markets in Mexico. Additionally, Outdoor has the exclusive rights to manage advertising space on approximately 90% of the total bus fleet in the U.K. and has a variety of outdoor advertising displays in the Netherlands, France, Italy, the Republic of Ireland, Spain and China. The Company operates its Outdoor businesses through CBS Outdoor in the U.S., Canada and Europe, CBS Outernet in the U.S. and Vendor® in Mexico. The "Radio Stations, Television Stations and Outdoor Advertising Displays" table above includes information with regard to the Company's outdoor advertising properties in the top 25 U.S. radio markets.  

 The substantial majority of Outdoor's revenues are generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising. Advertising rates are based on supply and demand for the particular locations, which are influenced by a particular display's exposure known as "impressions" delivered in relation to the demographics of the particular market and its location within that market. Currently, these impressions are not measured by independent third parties. The Company cannot predict the impact, if any, on the Outdoor business should impressions become measured independently. The major categories of out-of-home advertisers include: entertainment, media, automotive, beverage, financial, real estate, retail, healthcare, telecommunications, restaurants, health and beauty aids, hotels and professional services. Out-of-home media industry advertising expenditures by retailers and the entertainment industry fluctuate, which has an effect on Outdoor's revenues.  

 Outdoor generally operates in the billboard, transit, street furniture and retail store advertising markets. Outdoor primarily operates two types of billboard advertising displays, commonly referred to as "bulletins" and "posters." Billboard space is generally sold for periods ranging from 4 weeks to 12 months. Billboards are generally mounted on structures owned by Outdoor located on leased real property. Lease agreements are negotiated with both public and private landowners for varying terms ranging from month-to-month to year-to-year, can be for terms of 10 years or longer and many provide for renewal options. There is no significant concentration of displays under any one lease or subject to negotiation with any one landlord. New technologies for outdoor advertising displays, such as changeable message displays and digital billboards using light-emitting diode and liquid crystal display technology, continue to evolve. The Company keeps apprised of and has adopted such new technologies as they evolve and mature. For example, Outdoor is utilizing digital technology containing moving images in the London Underground and New York City subways. In July 2006, Outdoor reached an 8.5 year agreement to sell advertising on the London Underground, for which construction and installations are underway.  

I-13 

 Transit advertising includes advertising on or in transit systems, including the interiors and exteriors of buses, trains and trams and at rail stations. Transit advertising contracts are negotiated with public transit authorities and private transit operators and generally provide for payment to the transit authority of a percentage of the revenues, a fixed payment, or the greater of a percentage of the revenues or a fixed payment. Where revenues are lower than anticipated, the minimum amount required to be paid to a transit authority may exceed, or be a high percentage of, the advertising revenues received by Outdoor under that advertising contract.  

 Street furniture displays, the most common of which are bus shelters, reach both vehicular and pedestrian audiences. Bus shelters are usually constructed, installed and maintained by Outdoor. Most of Outdoor's bus shelter contracts include revenue-sharing arrangements with a municipality or transit authority and often include minimum required payments. Street furniture contracts usually involve a competitive bidding process and contracts typically are for a term of between 10 to 20 years. Contracts are awarded on the basis of projected revenues to the municipality, including minimum payments, and Outdoor's willingness to construct public facilities, such as bus shelters, public toilets and information kiosks. In both its transit and street furniture negotiations, Outdoor seeks to reduce minimum payment obligations on new agreements and on renewal of existing agreements. There is no assurance that Outdoor will be successful in reducing its minimum payments, entering into new agreements or renewing certain existing agreements and any such agreements may provide a lesser return to the Company.  

 In October 2007, the Company acquired SignStorey, Inc. (renamed CBS Outernet), a leading distributor of video programming and advertising content to retail stores, which enables customized messaging by region and retail environment. Generally, CBS Outernet enters into revenue-sharing arrangements with retailers based on advertising sales.  

 Outdoor's business strategy involves expanding its presence in major selected markets, to grow its revenues and cash flow by being a leading provider of out-of-home advertising services in the markets it serves, controlling costs, developing and entering into new markets and using advanced technologies to build greater awareness and promote tactical advertising. In addition, the Company purchases outdoor advertising assets within its existing markets or in contiguous markets. The Company believes that there will be continuing opportunities for implementing its acquisition and development strategies given the outdoor advertising industry's fragmentation. This is particularly true in the international markets where there are opportunities for Outdoor to increase profitability both from acquiring additional assets in or near its existing operations and from future acquisitions in new markets.  

 Outdoor Competition. The outdoor advertising industry is fragmented, consisting of several large companies involved in outdoor advertising such as Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings Inc., JC Decaux S.A., Cemusa Inc. and Lamar Advertising Company as well as hundreds of smaller and local companies operating a limited number of display faces in a single or a few local markets. The Company also competes with other media, including broadcast and cable television, radio, print media, the Internet and direct mail marketers, within their respective markets. In addition, it competes with a wide variety of out-of-home media, including advertising in shopping centers, airports, movie theaters, supermarkets and taxis. Advertisers compare relative costs of available media and cost-per-thousand impressions, particularly when delivering a message to customers with distinct demographic characteristics. In competing with other media, the outdoor advertising industry relies on its relative cost efficiency and its ability to reach a broad segment in a specific market or to target a particular geographic area or population with a particular demographic within that market. The Company keeps apprised of the evolution of new technologies in the industry. As new technologies such as digital billboards prove desirable to Outdoor's customers and deliver appropriate returns on investment, the Company's costs could increase.  

 The Company believes that its strong emphasis in sales and customer service and its position as a leading provider of advertising services in each of its primary markets as well as its international inventory enables it to compete effectively with the other outdoor advertising companies, as well as other media, within those markets.  

I-14 

      Publishing (6%, 6% and 5% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively)  

 The Publishing segment consists of Simon & Schuster, which publishes and distributes consumer books in the U.S. and internationally.  

 Simon & Schuster publishes and distributes adult and children's consumer books in printed, audio and digital formats in the U.S. and internationally. Simon & Schuster's major adult imprints include Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Scribner,  Atria Books®, and Free Press. Simon & Schuster's major children's imprints include  Simon Spotlight®, Aladdin Paperbacks® and Simon & Schuster Books For Young Readers™. Simon & Schuster also develops special imprints and publishes titles based on CBS Television Network's and Showtime Networks' products as well as that of third parties and distributes products for other publishers. Simon & Schuster distributes its products directly and through third parties. Simon & Schuster also delivers content and promotes its products on general Internet sites as well as those linked to individual titles; its created assets include online videos showcasing Simon & Schuster authors and new releases on YouTube, Bookvideos.tv, SimonSays.com and other sites. International publishing includes the international distribution of English-language titles through Simon & Schuster UK, Simon & Schuster Canada and Simon & Schuster Australia and other distributors, as well as the publication of local titles by Simon & Schuster UK.  

 In 2007, Simon & Schuster published 140 titles that were New York Times bestsellers, including 17 New York Times #1 bestsellers. Best-selling titles in 2007 include  The Secret by Rhonda Byrne, Become a Better You by Joel Osteen and I Heard That Song Before by Mary Higgins Clark. Bestselling children's titles from Simon & Schuster include Olivia Helps with Christmas by Ian Falconer, Dog by Matthew Van Fleet and Uglies by Scott Westerfeld. Simon & Schuster Digital™, through SimonSays.com, publishes original content, builds reader communities and promotes and sells Simon & Schuster's books over the Internet.  

 The consumer publishing marketplace is subject to increased periods of demand in the summer months and during the end-of-year holiday season. Major new title releases represent a significant portion of Simon & Schuster's sales throughout the year. Simon & Schuster's top 10 accounts drive a significant portion of its annual revenue. Consumer books are generally sold on a fully returnable basis, resulting in the return of unsold books. In the domestic and international markets, the Company is subject to global trends and local economic conditions.  

 Publishing Competition. The consumer publishing business is highly competitive and has been affected over the years by consolidation trends. Significant mergers have occurred among the leading consumer publishers. Mass merchandisers and on-line retailers are significant factors in the industry contributing to the general trend toward consolidation in the retail channel. There have also been a number of mergers completed in the distribution channel. The Company must compete with other larger publishers such as Random House, Penguin Group and Harper Collins for the rights to works by authors. Competition is particularly strong for well-known authors and public personalities. In addition, technological changes have made it increasingly possible for authors to self-publish.  

REGULATION  

 The Company's businesses are either subject to or affected by regulations of federal, state and local governmental authorities. The rules, regulations, policies and procedures affecting these businesses are subject to change. The descriptions which follow are summaries and should be read in conjunction with the texts of the statutes, rules and regulations described herein. The descriptions do not purport to describe all present and proposed statutes, rules and regulations affecting the Company's businesses.  

I-15 

 Intellectual Property   

 Laws affecting intellectual property are of significant importance to the Company. (See "Intellectual Property" on page I-22).  

 Copyright Law and Content. In the U.S., the copyright term for authored works is the life of the author plus 70 years. For works made-for-hire, the copyright term is the shorter of 95 years from the first publication or 120 years from creation.  

 Unauthorized Distribution and Piracy. Unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material over the Internet without regard to content owners' copyright rights in television programming and clips, such as through file "sharing" and peer-to-peer services, is a threat to copyright owners' ability to protect and exploit their property. The Company is engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect its intellectual property and has participated in various litigations, educational and public relations programs and legislative activity. In addition to these efforts, the Company continues to explore possibilities for commercial arrangements with various online providers to further protect and exploit its content.   

 Broadcasting   

 General. Television and radio broadcasting are subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC pursuant to the Communications Act. The Communications Act empowers the FCC, among other actions, to issue, renew, revoke and modify broadcasting licenses; determine stations' frequencies, locations and operating power; regulate some of the equipment used by stations; adopt other regulations to carry out the provisions of the Communications Act and other laws, including requirements affecting the content of broadcasts; and to impose penalties for violation of its regulations, including monetary forfeitures, short-term renewal of licenses and, in egregious cases, license revocation or denial of license renewals.  

 Under the Communications Act, the FCC also regulates certain aspects of the operation of cable and DTH satellite systems and certain other electronic media that compete with broadcast stations.  

 Indecency Regulation. The FCC's rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent or profane material because of the vagueness of the FCC's indecency/profanity definition, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC in the last several years has stepped up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency, and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for "serious" indecency violations. Pursuant to legislation enacted by Congress, in July 2007, the FCC increased the forfeiture penalties for broadcasting indecent programming to a maximum of $325,000 per indecent utterance with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3.0 million for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. The Company is and has been involved in litigation and, from time to time, has received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on its broadcast stations included indecent material. The Company entered into a Consent Decree with the FCC in November 2004 pursuant to which the Company made a $3.5 million voluntary contribution to the U.S. Treasury and agreed to provide training with respect to FCC indecency regulation to programming-related personnel at its broadcast television and radio operations and to implement other measures to reduce the risk of broadcasting indecent material. The Company also entered into a Consent Decree with the FCC in 2007. Pursuant to the 2007 Consent Decree, the Company made a $300,000 voluntary contribution to the U.S. Treasury and the FCC and the Company settled and resolved certain disputes pertaining to the 2004 Consent Decree. (See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Legal Matters—Indecency Regulation" on page II-30).  

I-16 

 License Renewals. Radio and television broadcast licenses are granted for a term of eight years. The Communications Act requires the FCC to renew a broadcast license if the FCC finds that the station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity and, with respect to the station, there have been no serious violations by the licensee of either the Communications Act or the FCC's rules and regulations and there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the FCC's rules and regulations that, taken together, constitute a pattern of abuse. The Company has a number of pending renewal applications, 8 of which have been opposed by third parties (there are 2 opposed renewal applications for Radio and 6 opposed renewal applications for Television).  

 License Assignments. The Communications Act requires prior FCC approval for the assignment of a license or transfer of control of an FCC licensee. Third parties may oppose the Company's applications to transfer or acquire additional broadcast licenses.  

 Ownership Regulation. The Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have an official position or ownership interest, known as an "attributable" interest, above specific levels in broadcast stations as well as in other specified mass media entities. In seeking FCC approval for the acquisition of a broadcast radio or television station license, the acquiring person or entity must demonstrate that the acquisition complies with the FCC's ownership rules or that a waiver of the rules is in the public interest.  

 The FCC's ownership rules are briefly summarized below.   

 Local Radio Ownership. The FCC's local radio ownership rule applies in all markets where the Company owns radio stations. Under that rule, one party may own up to eight radio stations in the largest markets, no more than five of which may be either AM or FM. With a few exceptions, the rule permits the common ownership of 8 radio stations in the top 50 markets, where CBS Radio has significant holdings. The Company's radio portfolio exceeds the FCC's numerical limit in two markets, Baltimore and West Palm Beach, which are grandfathered. While the rules do not require the divestiture of any existing radio ownership combinations, the Company is not permitted to transfer its radio portfolios in those two markets intact, except to qualified small businesses.  

 Local Television Ownership. Under the FCC's local television ownership rule, one party may own up to two television stations in the same DMA, so long as at least one of the two stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market based on audience share as of the date an application for approval of an acquisition is filed with the FCC, and at least eight independently owned and operating full-power television stations remain in the market following the acquisition. Further, without regard to the number of remaining independently owned television stations, the rule permits the ownership of two television stations within the same DMA so long as certain signal contours of the stations involved do not overlap. Satellite television stations that simply rebroadcast the programming of a "parent" television station are exempt from the local television ownership rule if located in the same DMA as the "parent" station.  

 Television National Audience Reach Limitation. Under the national television ownership rule, one party may not own television stations which reach more than 39% of all U.S. television households. For purposes of calculating the total number of television households reached by a station, the FCC attributes a UHF television station with only 50% of the television households in its market. The Company currently owns and operates television stations that have an aggregate television national audience reach for purposes of the national ownership limitation of approximately 36%, after applying the UHF discount.  

 Radio-Television Cross-Ownership Rule. The radio-television cross-ownership rule limits the common ownership of radio and television stations in the same market. The numeric limit varies according to the number of independent media voices in the market. The Company owns a   

I-17 

combination of radio and television stations in the Los Angeles market in excess of the limit. The Company has an application pending before the FCC which, if granted, would bring the Company into compliance with the rule.  

 Newspaper-Broadcast Cross-Ownership. In December 2007, the FCC modified the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule permitting cross-ownership of daily newspapers and broadcast stations in the top 20 markets under certain circumstances and establishing a waiver procedure for such combinations in smaller markets.  

 Dual Network Rule. The dual network rule prohibits any of the four major networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, from combining.  

 Attribution of Ownership. Under the FCC's attribution rules, a direct or indirect purchaser of various types of securities of an entity which holds FCC licenses, such as the Company, could violate the foregoing FCC ownership regulations or policies if that purchaser owned or acquired an "attributable" interest in other media properties. Under the FCC's rules, an "attributable" interest for purposes of the FCC's broadcast ownership rules generally includes: equity and debt interests which combined exceed 33% of a licensee's total assets, if the interest holder supplies more than 15% of the licensee's total weekly programming, or has an attributable same-market media interest, whether television, radio, cable or newspaper; a 5% or greater direct or indirect voting stock interest, including certain interests held in trust, unless the holder is a qualified passive investor in which case the threshold is a 20% or greater voting stock interest; any equity interest in a limited liability company or a partnership, including a limited partnership, unless properly "insulated" from management activities; and any position as an officer or director of a licensee or of its direct or indirect parent. The FCC is currently reviewing its single majority voting shareholder attribution exemption which renders as non-attributable voting interests up to 49% in a licensee controlled by a single majority voting shareholder. Because the Company and Viacom Inc. have the same single majority voting shareholder, the business of each company is attributable to the other for certain FCC purposes, which may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to the Company. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors—"The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes").  

 Alien Ownership. In general, the Communications Act prohibits foreign individuals or entities from owning more than 20% of the voting power or equity of the Company.   

 Digital Television Service. The FCC has taken a number of steps to implement digital television broadcasting service in the U.S. The FCC has attempted to provide digital television coverage areas that are comparable to stations' existing service areas and has provided all licensed television stations with a second channel on which to broadcast a digital television signal. Licensees are permitted to use their digital channels for a wide variety of services such as high definition video programming, multiple channels of standard definition video programming, audio, data, and other types of communications, subject to the requirement that each broadcaster provide at least one free over-the-air video program signal at least comparable in resolution to the station's analog programming transmissions.  

 As part of the nationwide transition from analog to digital broadcasting, all full power commercial television stations are required to transmit a digital signal 100% of the time they are transmitting an analog signal. All of the Company's full power television stations have commenced digital broadcasting, except for the Company's The CW-affiliated station in the Pittsburgh market, which has a pending application for digital authorization.  

 In December 2007, the FCC released an order setting forth additional rules related to the transition to digital television. These rules impose obligations on stations to report to the FCC on the status of  

I-18 

construction of digital facilities, construction deadlines and new interference standards for stations that seek to improve their digital signals.  

 Congress has passed a law setting February 17, 2009 as the date that U.S. full power television broadcasters must cease transmitting analog television signals. The law sets aside $1.5 billion in subsidies to help consumers obtain converter boxes that will allow analog television sets to receive digital broadcasts. The Company has incurred considerable costs in the conversion to digital television and is unable to predict the effect of the cessation of analog broadcasting and the extent or timing of consumer demand for digital television services and the resulting impact on the Company's viewership.  

 Cable and Satellite Carriage of Television Broadcast Stations. The 1992 Cable Act and implementing FCC regulations govern the retransmission of commercial television stations by cable television operators. Every three years, each station must elect, with respect to cable systems within its DMA, either "must carry" status, pursuant to which the cable system's carriage of the station is mandatory, or "retransmission consent," pursuant to which the station gives up its right to mandatory carriage in order to negotiate consideration in return for consenting to carriage. Generally, the Company has elected the retransmission consent option for the period beginning January 1, 2006, and since that date, has begun a systematic process of seeking monetary consideration for its retransmission consent.  

 Similarly, federal legislation and FCC rules govern the retransmission of broadcast television stations by DTH satellite operators. DTH satellite operators are required to carry the signals of all local television broadcast stations requesting carriage in local markets in which the DTH satellite operator carries at least one signal pursuant to the statutory local-to-local compulsory copyright license. Every three years, each television station in such markets must elect "must carry" or "retransmission consent" status, in a manner similar to that described above with respect to cable systems. Substantially all of the Company's owned and operated television stations are being transmitted into their local markets by the two major DTH satellite operators pursuant to retransmission consent agreements negotiated prior to January 1, 2006.  

 The foregoing relates to cable and satellite carriage of analog television broadcast stations. Although a single programming stream transmitted by each digital television station will be required to be carried on both distribution platforms after the end of the digital television transition period, the FCC, in February 2005, affirmed that it will not require cable operators either to carry both a station's analog and digital signals during the transition period or, after the conversion to digital, to carry more than a station's primary video programming channel. However, the Company has agreements with a number of multiple system operators that require carriage of the digital and analog signals of the Company-owned television stations during the transition (including multiple streams of digital programming). In an order adopted in September 2007, the FCC confirmed that cable operators will be required to ensure that all of their subscribers are able to receive the digital signals of local "must carry" broadcast stations.  

 Children's Television Programming. Federal legislation and FCC rules limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown on television stations during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger, and require stations to broadcast on their main program stream three hours per week of educational and informational programming ("E/I programming") designed for children 16 years of age and younger. Effective as of January 2, 2007, FCC rules impose E/I programming requirements on each additional digital multicast program stream transmitted by television stations, with the requirement increasing in proportion to the additional hours of free programming offered on multicast channels. These rules also limit the display during children's programming of Internet addresses of Web sites that contain or link to commercial material or that use program characters to sell products.  

 Program Access. Under the Communications Act, vertically integrated cable programmers (more fully described below) are generally prohibited from offering different prices, terms or conditions to competing multichannel video programming distributors unless the differential is justified by certain  

I-19 

permissible factors set forth in the FCC's regulations. The FCC's "program access" rules also limit the ability of a vertically integrated cable programmer to enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with cable operators. A cable programmer is considered to be vertically integrated under the FCC's program access attribution rules if it owns or is owned by a cable operator in whole or in part. Cable operators for this purpose may include telephone companies that provide video programming directly to subscribers. The Company's wholly owned program services are not currently subject to the program access rules. In December 2007, the FCC announced that it will conduct a rulemaking to examine issues related to its vertical ownership limits and cable attribution rules. The Company's flexibility to negotiate the most favorable terms available for carriage of these services and its ability to offer cable operators exclusive programming could be adversely affected if it were to become subject to the program access rules. Certain actions of the Company with respect to program access rules are addressed under the terms of a separation agreement, which is filed as an exhibit to this report (the "Separation Agreement"), between the Company and Viacom Inc. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors—"The Separation Agreement Prohibits the Company from Engaging in Certain Types of Businesses").  

 Digital Radio. For a number of years, the FCC has been developing rules that would permit existing AM and FM radio broadcast stations to broadcast digitally in order both to improve sound quality and to provide spectrum for enhanced data services to complement the existing programming service and provide new business opportunities for radio broadcasters, including multicasting opportunities. The FCC has authorized AM and FM radio stations to broadcast digital signals using excess spectrum within the same allotted bandwidth used for analog transmissions. The Company has committed to converting 131 of its radio stations to digital broadcasting technology over the next several years, 103 of which had been converted at February 1, 2008. CBS Radio and other broadcasters have formed the Digital Alliance and have made commitments that will result in over 2,000 AM and FM stations converting to digital technology nationwide, including in the top 100 radio markets.   

 Outdoor   

 The outdoor advertising industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation at the federal, state and local levels in the U.S. and to national, regional and local restrictions in foreign countries. These regulations can affect the operation of advertising displays and include restrictions on the construction, repair, upgrading, height, size and location of outdoor advertising structures and, in some instances, the content of advertising copy that can be displayed on these structures. In addition, in recent years, outdoor advertising has become the subject of targeted state and municipal taxes and fees. These laws may affect competitive conditions in various markets in various ways. Such laws may reduce the Company's expansion opportunities, or may increase or reduce competitive pressure from others. No assurance can be given that existing or future laws or regulations and the enforcement thereof will not materially and adversely affect the Outdoor business.  

 Under U.S. law, principally the Highway Beautification Act of 1965 (the "HBA"), outdoor advertising is controlled on primary and interstate highways built with federal financial assistance. As a condition to federal highway assistance, the HBA requires states to restrict billboards on such highways to commercial and industrial areas, and imposes certain additional size, spacing and other requirements associated with the installation and operation of billboards. Outdoor is not aware of any states which have passed laws and adopted regulations which are less restrictive than the federal requirements, including the obligation on the part of the billboard owner to remove, at the owner's expense and without compensation, any non-grandfathered signs on such highways that do not comply with such requirements. Outdoor does not believe that the number of its billboards that may be subject to removal under these regulations is material. No state in which Outdoor operates has banned billboards, but some have adopted standards more restrictive than the federal requirements. Municipal and county governments generally also have sign controls as part of their zoning laws and building codes. Some state and local governments prohibit construction of new billboards and some allow new construction only to replace existing structures,  

I-20 

although most allow construction of billboards subject to restrictions on zoning, size, spacing, height and type of construction. In some cases, the construction of new billboards or the relocation or modification of existing billboards is prohibited. A number of cities including New York City, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Miami have implemented or initiated legislative billboard controls, including imposing taxes, fees and/or registration requirements in an effort to decrease or restrict the number of outdoor signs and/or to raise revenue. The Company contests such laws and regulations that it believes unlawfully restrict its constitutional or other legal rights and may adversely impact the growth of its outdoor advertising business.  

 U.S. law neither requires nor prohibits removal of existing lawful billboards, but it does require payment of compensation if a state or political subdivision compels the removal of a lawful billboard along a primary or interstate highway that was built with federal financial assistance. State governments have purchased and removed legal billboards for beautification objectives in the past using federal funding for transportation enhancement programs, and may do so in the future. State government authorities from time to time use the power of eminent domain to remove billboards. Thus far, Outdoor has been able to obtain satisfactory compensation for its billboards purchased or removed as a result of this type of governmental action, although there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. Local governments do not generally purchase billboards for beautification, but some have attempted to force removal of legal but nonconforming billboards (billboards which conformed with applicable zoning regulations when built but which do not conform to current zoning regulations) after a period of years under a concept called amortization. Under this concept the governmental body asserts that just compensation is earned by continued operation of the billboard over time. Although there is some question as to the legality of amortization under federal and many state laws, amortization has been upheld in some instances. Outdoor generally has been successful in negotiating settlements with municipalities for billboards required to be removed. Restrictive regulations also limit Outdoor's ability to rebuild or replace nonconforming billboards.  

 As the owner or operator of various real properties and facilities in outdoor advertising operations, the Company must comply with various U.S. federal, state and local and foreign environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations. The Company and its properties are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and employee health and safety, as well as zoning and other land use restrictions which may affect, among other things, the hours of operation and illumination as well as methods and conditions of maintenance of facilities and advertising installation. Historically, the Company has not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws. However, future laws or a finding of a violation of or liability under existing laws could require the Company to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict its ability to use or operate some of its displays.  

 Out-of-court settlements between the major U.S. tobacco companies, the U.S. government, and all 50 states include a ban on the outdoor advertising of tobacco products. State and local governments continue to initiate proposals designed to limit outdoor advertising of alcohol. Other products and services may be targeted in the future. Legislation regulating alcohol-related advertising due to content-related restrictions could cause a reduction in Outdoor's direct revenue from such advertisements and a simultaneous increase in the available space on the existing inventory of billboards in the outdoor advertising industry.  

I-21 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY  

 The Company creates, owns, distributes and exploits under licenses intellectual property worldwide. It is the Company's practice to protect its products, including its television and radio products, characters, publications and other original and acquired works and audiovisual works made for online and wireless exploitation. The following logos, trade names, trademarks and related trademark families are among those strongly identified with the product lines they represent and are significant assets of the Company:  CBS®, CBS Entertainment™, CBS News®, CBS Sports®, CBSSports.com™, CBS Radio™, Showtime®, The Movie Channel™, Flix®, CBS Outdoor™, CBS Outernet™, CBS Audience Network™, Last.fm™, Spelling Television®, CSI:™, Entertainment Tonight®, Star Trek®, Simon & Schuster®, CSTV College Sports Television®,  CBS Interactive™ and all the call letters for the Company's television and radio stations. As a result, domestic and foreign laws protecting intellectual property rights are important to the Company and the Company actively enforces its intellectual property rights against infringements.  

EMPLOYEES  

 At December 31, 2007, the Company employed approximately 23,970 people including full-time and part-time salaried employees.  

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS AND FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS  

 Financial and other information by segment and relating to foreign and domestic operations for each of the last three years ending December 31 is set forth in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

 CBS Corp. makes available free of charge on or through the Investor Relations section of its Web site, www.cbscorporation.com, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such material is made available through the Company's Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. On June 21, 2007, the Company submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the Annual CEO Certification required by Section 303A 12 of the New York Stock Exchange Listing Manual. The Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission the certifications required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31(a) and 31(b) to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

I-22 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.