PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.  

Overview  

United Continental Holdings, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “UAL”) is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries are United Air Lines, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “United”) and, effective October 1, 2010, Continental Airlines, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “Continental”). This combined Annual Report on Form 10-K is separately filed by each of United Continental Holdings, Inc., United Air Lines, Inc. and Continental Airlines, Inc. Each registrant hereto is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this report that relates to such registrant. Each registrant hereto is not filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.  

We sometimes use the words “we,” “our,” “us,” and the “Company” in this Form 10-K for disclosures that relate to all of UAL, United and Continental. As UAL consolidates United and Continental beginning October 1, 2010 for financial statement purposes, disclosures that relate to United activities also apply to UAL. Effective October 1, 2010, disclosures that related to Continental activities also apply to UAL. When appropriate, UAL, United and Continental are named specifically for their related activities and disclosures. This report uses “Continental Successor” to refer to Continental subsequent to the Merger (defined below) and “Continental Predecessor” to refer to Continental prior to the Merger.  

UAL was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968. Our world headquarters is located at 77 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60601. The mailing address is P.O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois 60666 (telephone number (312) 997-8000). The Company’s web address is www.unitedcontinentalholdings.com. The information contained on or connected to the Company’s web address is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Through this website, the Company’s filings with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are accessible without charge as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Such filings are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Each of UAL and Continental has a code of ethics for directors, officers and employees. The codes serve as a “Code of Ethics” as defined by SEC regulations, and as a “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” under the NYSE’s Listed Company Manual. The codes are available on the Company’s website. Waivers granted to certain officers from compliance with or future amendments to these codes, including the adoption of a code of ethics for the combined company, will be disclosed on the Company’s website in accordance with Item 5.05 of Form 8-K.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Merger  

On May 2, 2010, UAL Corporation, Continental, and JT Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger providing for a “merger of equals” business combination. On October 1, 2010, JT Merger Sub Inc. merged with and into Continental, with Continental surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation (the “Merger”). Upon closing of the Merger, UAL Corporation became the parent company of both Continental and United and UAL Corporation’s name was changed to United Continental Holdings, Inc. Until the operational integration of United and Continental is complete, United and Continental will continue to operate as separate airlines. UAL’s consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of Continental and its subsidiaries for the period subsequent to October 1, 2010.  

UAL expects the Merger to deliver $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion in net annual synergies on a run-rate basis by 2013, including between $800 million and $900 million of incremental annual revenues, in large part from expanded customer options resulting from the greater scope and scale of the network, fleet optimization and additional international service enabled by the broader network of the combined company. UAL expects the combined company to realize between $200 million and $300 million of net cost synergies on a run-rate basis by 2013. We also expect that the combined company will incur substantial expenses in connection with the Merger. There are many factors that could affect the total amount or the timing of those expenses, and many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. In addition to transactional merger-related charges, UAL has incurred and expects to incur additional material merger and integration-related charges to combine the operations of United and Continental. See Notes 1 and 21 to the financial statements included in Item 8 and Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information on the Merger.  

Operations  

United and Continental transport people and cargo through their mainline operations, which utilize full-sized jet aircraft, and regional operations, which utilize smaller aircraft that are operated under contract by United Express, Continental Express and Continental Connection carriers. See Item 2, Properties, for a description of the Company’s mainline and regional aircraft.  

With key global air rights in the U.S., Pacific region, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Latin America, UAL has the world’s most comprehensive global route network. UAL, through United and Continental and their regional carriers, operates approximately 5,800 flights a day to more than 375 U.S. domestic and international destinations from the Company’s hubs at A.B. Won Pat International Airport (“Guam”), Chicago O’Hare International Airport (“Chicago O’Hare”), Denver International Airport (“Denver”), George Bush Intercontinental Airport (“Houston Bush”), Hopkins International Airport (“Cleveland Hopkins”), Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”), Newark Liberty International Airport (“New York Liberty”), San Francisco International Airport (“SFO”) and Washington Dulles International Airport (“Washington Dulles”). Including its regional operations, United operates approximately 3,350 flights a day to more than 235 U.S. domestic and international destinations based on its annual flight schedule as of January 1, 2011. Including its regional operations, Continental operates approximately 2,500 flights a day to more than 280 U.S. domestic and international destinations based on its annual flight schedule as of January 1, 2011. 

All of the Company’s domestic hubs are located in large business and population centers, contributing to a large amount of “origin and destination” traffic. Our hub and spoke system allows us to transport passengers between a large number of destinations with substantially more frequent service than if each route were served directly. Our hub system also allows us to add service to a new destination from a large number of cities using only one or a limited number of aircraft. As discussed under Alliances below, United and Continental are both members of Star Alliance, the world’s largest airline network.  

3  

Table of Contents 

The Company offers a different set of services to target distinct customer groups. This strategy of market and product segmentation is intended to optimize margins and costs, and is focused on delivering an improved experience for all customers and a best-in-class experience for premium customers. Some of these services include:  

Services  

United  

   •    First and Business class seating on transcontinental flights and United Economy Plus®, the latter providing three to five inches of extra legroom on all mainline flights.  

   •    International premium travel experience featuring 180-degree, lie-flat beds in First and Business class. Certain aircraft have been refitted with new premium seats, entertainment systems and other product enhancements. United has completed these upgrades on all of its 21 Boeing 767-300ER aircraft, all of its 24 Boeing 747 aircraft and 8 of its 46 Boeing 777 aircraft. United expects to complete the remaining aircraft upgrades by 2013.  

   •    United’s p.s.SM—a premium transcontinental service connecting New York with both Los Angeles and San Francisco.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Continental  

   •    Flat-bed BusinessFirst seats offered on Continental’s Boeing 777 aircraft and 31 of its 41 Boeing 757-200 aircraft with approximately 6.5 feet of sleeping space, laptop power and 15.4-inch video monitors. Continental expects to complete the remaining Boeing 757-200 aircraft updates by the summer of 2011.  

   •    Audio Video on Demand entertainment systems in BusinessFirst and economy seats on Continental’s Boeing 777 and 757-200 aircraft featuring a large selection of movies, television shows, music and interactive video games.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    EliteAccess service for OnePass members who qualify based on the number of paid flight miles or the fares purchased in a calendar year, first class and BusinessFirst ticket holders and travelers with high-yield coach tickets who qualify as Elite for the Day. EliteAccess passengers receive priority treatment in check-in, boarding and baggage claim areas, the ability to check up to three bags without fees and access to special security lanes at certain airports. 

Regional Carriers. The Company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as United Express, Continental Express and Continental Connection. These regional operations are an extension of the Company’s mainline network. This regional service complements our operations by carrying traffic that connects to our mainline service and allows more frequent flights to smaller cities than could be provided economically with full sized mainline jet aircraft. Atlantic Southeast Airlines, Chautauqua Airlines, Colgan Airlines (“Colgan”), CommutAir Airlines, ExpressJet Airlines, GoJet Airlines, Mesa Airlines, Shuttle America, SkyWest Airlines (“SkyWest”) and Trans States Airlines  

4  

Table of Contents 

 (“Trans States”) are all regional carriers, most of which operate under capacity purchase agreements with United and/or Continental. Under these agreements, the Company pays the regional carriers contractually-agreed fees (carrier-controlled costs) for operating these flights plus a variable reimbursement (incentive payment for superior operational performance) based on agreed performance metrics. The carrier-controlled costs are based on specific rates for various operating expenses of the regional carriers, such as crew expenses, maintenance and aircraft ownership, some of which are multiplied by specific operating statistics (e.g., block hours, departures) while others are fixed monthly amounts. Under these capacity purchase agreements, the Company is responsible for all fuel costs incurred as well as landing fees, facilities rent and other costs, which are passed through without any markup. In return, the regional carriers operate this capacity on schedules determined by the Company. The Company also determines pricing, revenues and inventory levels and assumes the inventory and distribution risk for the available seats.  

While the regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements comprise more than 95% of all regional flights, the Company also has prorate agreements with Hyannis Air Service, Inc. (“Cape Air”), Colgan, Gulfstream International Airlines (“Gulfstream”), SkyWest and Trans States. Under prorate agreements, the Company and its prorate partners agree to divide revenue collected from each passenger according to a formula, while both the Company and the prorate partners are individually responsible for their own costs of operations. Unlike capacity purchase agreements, under a prorate agreement, the regional carrier retains the control and risk of scheduling, market selection, local seat pricing and inventory for its flights, although the carriers may coordinate schedules to maximize connections.  

Financial information on the Company’s operating revenues by geographic regions, as reported to the U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”), can be found in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 10 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.  

Alliances. United and Continental have a number of bilateral and multilateral alliances with other airlines, which enhance travel options for customers seeking access to markets that United and Continental do not serve directly. These marketing alliances typically include one or more of the following features: joint loyalty program participation; codesharing of flight operations (whereby seats on one carrier’s selected flights can be marketed under the brand name of another carrier); coordination of reservations, ticketing, passenger check-in, baggage handling and flight schedules; and other resource-sharing activities.  

United and Continental are members of Star Alliance, a global integrated airline network co-founded by United in 1997 and the most comprehensive airline alliance in the world. As of January 1, 2011, Star Alliance carriers served 1,160 airports in 181 countries with 21,000 daily flights. Current Star Alliance partners, in addition to United and Continental, are Adria Airways, Aegean Airlines, Air Canada, Air China, Air New Zealand, All Nippon Airways, Asiana Airlines, Austrian Airlines, Blue1, bmi, Brussels Airlines, Croatia Airlines, EGYPTAIR, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, Scandinavian Airlines, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, Spanair, Swiss International Air Lines, TAM, TAP Portugal, THAI, Turkish Airlines and US Airways. Air India, Avianca-TACA and Copa Airlines have been announced as future Star Alliance members.  

In September 2010, United, Continental and Air Canada entered into a memorandum of understanding to establish a revenue-sharing, transborder joint venture, subject to the execution of a definitive joint venture agreement, completion of necessary filings, receipt of regulatory approvals and finalization of documentation. United, Continental and Air Canada have antitrust immunity from the DOT for transborder coordination. The joint venture is currently under review by the Canadian Competition Bureau.  

In November 2010, United, Continental and All Nippon Airways received antitrust immunity approval from the Japanese government and the DOT enabling the carriers to establish a trans-Pacific joint venture to integrate the services they operate between the United States and Japan, and other destinations in Asia, and to derive potentially significant benefits from coordinated scheduling, pricing, sales and inventory management. The integration of services will also allow the three carriers to offer passengers highly competitive flight schedules, fares and services. We expect this joint venture to commence in the second quarter of 2011.  

5  

Table of Contents 

In December 2010, pursuant to antitrust immunity approval granted by the DOT, United, Continental, Air Canada and Lufthansa executed a joint venture agreement covering trans-Atlantic routes. The joint venture is expected to deliver highly competitive flight schedules, fares and service. The European Commission, which has been conducting a parallel review of the competitive effects of the joint venture similar to the DOT’s review, has not yet completed its review. The joint venture has a revenue-sharing structure that results in payments among participants based on a formula that compares current period unit revenue performance on trans-Atlantic routes to an historic period, or “baseline,” which is reset annually. The payments are calculated on a quarterly basis and subject to a cap. The revenue sharing aspects of this joint venture were retroactive to January 2010. See Industry Regulation below.  

United and Continental have independent marketing agreements with other air carriers including Aer Lingus, Cape Air, Colgan, Copa Airlines, Emirates, EVA Airways Corporation, Great Lakes Aviation, Gulfstream, Hawaiian Airlines, Island Air, Qatar Airways, TACA Group, and Virgin Atlantic Airways. In addition, Continental has a train-to-plane alliance with Amtrak.  

Fuel. Aircraft fuel has been the Company’s single largest operating expense for the last several years. The table below summarizes UAL’s fuel cost data, excluding hedge impacts, during the last three years.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Excludes Continental Predecessor fuel consumption and cost prior to October 1, 2010.  

 (b) Excludes fuel hedge gains (losses) classified within fuel expense of $(105) million, $104 million and $(608) million for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.  

 (c) Calculation excludes special charges identified in Item 6 of this report.  

The availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affects the Company’s operations, results of operations and financial position. To ensure adequate supplies of fuel and to obtain a measure of control over prices in the short term, the Company arranges to have fuel shipped on major pipelines and stored close to its major hub locations. To protect against increases in the prices of fuel, the Company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements, provided the hedges are expected to be cost effective. The Company uses fixed price swaps, purchased call options, collars or other such commonly used financial hedge instruments based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities like heating oil and crude oil. The Company strives to maintain fuel hedging levels and exposure generally consistent with industry standards so that the Company’s fuel cost is not disproportionate to the fuel costs of its major competitors.  

Loyalty Programs. United’s Mileage Plus program and Continental’s OnePass program build customer loyalty by offering awards and services to program participants. Members in these programs can earn mileage credit for flights on United, United Express, Continental, Continental Express and Continental Connection, members of Star Alliance and certain other airlines that participate in the programs. Miles can also be earned by purchasing the goods and services of our non-airline partners, such as retail merchants, hotels, car rental companies and credit card issuers. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel and non-travel awards. At December 31, 2010, United and Continental had more than 58 million and 41 million members, respectively, enrolled in their programs.  

Both of the Company’s loyalty programs have co-brand agreements with Chase Bank USA, N.A. (“Chase”). Under these agreements, loyalty program members accrue frequent flyer miles for making purchases using Mileage Plus and OnePass credit cards issued by Chase. These co-brand agreements provide for joint marketing of the credit card programs and provide Chase with other benefits such as permission to market to the Company’s customer database.  

6  

Table of Contents 

In 2010, 2.4 million Mileage Plus travel awards were used on United, as compared to 2.1 million and 2.3 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. These awards represented 7.5%, 8.3% and 9.1% of United’s total revenue passenger miles in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Also in 2010, 1.6 million OnePass travel awards were used on Continental, as compared to 1.3 million and 1.6 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. These awards represented 5.7%, 5.9% and 8.4% of Continental’s total revenue passenger miles in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

In addition, Mileage Plus members redeemed miles for approximately 975,000 non-United travel awards in 2010 as compared to 885,000 in 2009. Non-United travel awards include Red Carpet Club memberships, car and hotel awards, merchandise and travel solely on another air carrier, among others. The increase in the number of non-United travel awards redeemed in 2010 was due to the expansion of the merchandise programs and the launch of a new car and hotel award program in the fourth quarter of 2009. Total miles redeemed for travel on United in 2010, including class-of-service upgrades, represented 86% of the total miles redeemed (for both completed and future travel).  

Distribution Channels. The majority of the Company’s airline seat inventory continues to be distributed through the traditional channels of travel agencies and global distribution systems (“GDS”). The growing use of internal websites, such as www.united.com and www.continental.com, alternative distribution systems and new GDS entrants provides the Company with an opportunity to de-commoditize its services, better control its content, make more targeted offerings, retain its customers, enhance its brand and lower its ticket distribution costs. To encourage customer use of lower-cost channels and capitalize on these cost-saving opportunities, the Company will continue to expand the capabilities of its websites and explore alternative distribution channels.  

Industry Conditions  

Economic Conditions. The Company’s costs and revenues are highly correlated to the economic health and growth of the United States and the global markets the Company serves. The Company’s financial performance improved significantly in 2010 consistent with the improvement in global economic conditions. Similarly, the Company’s results were adversely impacted in 2009 and 2008 as the global recession experienced over this period resulted in significant declines in industry passenger demand, accompanied by a reduction in fare levels. The drop in demand was greater among business and premium cabin travelers, as corporations significantly reduced their spending on business travel. As discussed further in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, adverse economic conditions have had, and in the future may have, negative impacts on passenger demand and revenue.  

Domestic Competition. The domestic airline industry is highly competitive and dynamic. In domestic markets, new and existing U.S. carriers are generally free to initiate service between any two points within the United States. The Company’s competitors consist primarily of other airlines and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation and emerging technological substitutes such as videoconferencing. Competition can be direct, in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route, or indirect where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city, or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport.  

Carriers that operate as low cost carriers or that have lower cost structures achieved through reorganization may be more competitive with the rest of the industry, resulting in lower fares for such carriers’ passengers with a potential negative impact on the Company’s revenues. In addition, future airline mergers or acquisitions may enable airlines to improve their revenue and cost performance relative to peers and thus enhance their competitive position within the industry.  

Domestic pricing decisions are largely affected by the need to be competitive with other U.S. airlines. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on our financial results because we often find it necessary to match competitors’ fares to maintain passenger traffic. Attempts by the Company and other airlines to raise fares often fail due to a lack of competitive matching.  

7  

Table of Contents 

International Competition. In international markets the Company competes not only with U.S. airlines, but also with foreign carriers. Competition on specified international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulations. The United States and European Union (“EU”) agreement in 2008 to reduce restrictions on flight operations between the two regions has increased competition for United’s transatlantic network from both U.S. and European airlines. In our Pacific operations, competition is expected to increase as the governments of the United States and China recently approved additional U.S. and Chinese airlines to fly new routes between the two countries, although the commencement of some new services to China was postponed due to the weak global economy. Competition in the Pacific is also expected to increase as a result of the execution of the open skies agreement between the United States and Japan in October 2010. See Industry Regulation, below. Competition in the Pacific may also increase if Japan Airlines, which filed for bankruptcy in January 2010 and received reorganization plan approval in November 2010, becomes a stronger competitor in the region as a result of its restructuring. Part of the Company’s ability to compete successfully with non-U.S. carriers on international routes is its ability to generate traffic from and to the entire U.S. via its integrated domestic route network. Foreign carriers are currently prohibited by U.S. law from carrying local passengers between two points in the U.S. and the Company experiences comparable restrictions in many foreign countries. In addition, U.S. carriers are often constrained from carrying passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities due to limitations in air service agreements and restrictions imposed unilaterally by foreign governments. To compensate partially for these structural limitations, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into alliances and marketing arrangements that allow these carriers to exchange traffic between each other’s flights and route networks. See Alliances, above, for further information.  

Seasonality. The air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, second and third quarter revenues, which reflect higher travel demand, are better than first and fourth quarter revenues, which reflect lower travel demand.  

Industry Regulation  

Domestic Regulation.  

General. All carriers engaged in air transportation in the U.S. are subject to regulation by the DOT. Among its responsibilities, the DOT issues certificates of public convenience and necessity for domestic air transportation; no air carrier, unless exempted, may provide air transportation without a DOT certificate of public convenience and necessity. The DOT also grants international route authorities, approves international codeshare arrangements, regulates methods of competition and enforces certain consumer protection statutes and regulations, such as those dealing with advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability.  

Airlines are also regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), a division of the DOT, primarily in the areas of flight operations, maintenance and other safety and technical matters. The FAA has authority to issue air carrier operating certificates and aircraft airworthiness certificates, prescribe maintenance procedures and regulate pilot and other employee training, among other responsibilities. From time to time, the FAA issues rules that require air carriers to take certain actions, such as the inspection or modification of aircraft and other equipment, that may cause the Company to incur substantial, unplanned expenses. The airline industry is also subject to various other federal laws and regulations. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) has jurisdiction over virtually all aspects of civil aviation security. See Legislation, below. The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has jurisdiction over certain airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail. Labor relations in the airline industry are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act (“RLA”). The Company is also subject to inquiries by the DOT, FAA, DOJ and other U.S. and international regulatory bodies.  

Airport Access. Access to landing and take-off rights, or “slots,” at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by United and Continental are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. Federally mandated domestic slot restrictions currently apply at Reagan National Airport in Washington D.C.  

8  

Table of Contents 

 (“Washington Reagan”), John F. Kennedy International Airport (“JFK”), LaGuardia Airport (“LaGuardia”) and New York Liberty. In addition, to address concerns about airport congestion, the FAA has designated certain airports, including New York Liberty, JFK and LaGuardia as “high density traffic airports” and has imposed operating restrictions at these three airports, which may include capacity reductions. Additional restrictions on airline routes and takeoff and landing slots may be proposed in the future that could affect the Company’s rights of ownership and transfer.  

Legislation. The airline industry is subject to legislative activity that may have an impact on operations and costs. In addition to federal, state and local taxes and fees that the Company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending that may increase the Company’s operating costs if imposed on the Company. Congress is currently attempting to pass comprehensive reauthorization legislation to impose a new funding structure and make other changes to FAA operations. Past aviation reauthorization bills have affected a wide range of areas of interest to the industry, including air traffic control operations, capacity control issues, airline competition issues, aircraft and airport technology requirements, safety issues, taxes, fees and other funding sources. Congress may also pass other legislation that could increase labor and operating costs. Climate change legislation, which would regulate greenhouse gas emissions, is also likely to be a significant area of legislative and regulatory focus and could adversely impact the Company’s costs. See Environmental Regulation, below.  

In April 2010, the DOT implemented a new rule requiring certain air carriers, including United and Continental, to adopt contingency plans for tarmac delays exceeding three hours at most U.S. airports. A carrier’s failure to meet certain service performance criteria under the rule could subject it to substantial civil penalties. The DOT has also proceeded with other regulatory changes in this area, including proposals regarding treatment of and payments to passengers involuntarily denied boarding, domestic baggage liability and airline scheduling practices. Additionally, since September 11, 2001, aviation security has been, and continues to be, a subject of frequent legislative and regulatory action, requiring changes to the Company’s security processes and frequently increasing the cost of its security procedures.  

In September 2010, the FAA proposed changes to flight crew duty and rest requirements for all U.S. airlines operating under part 121 of FAA regulations. These changes, if adopted by the FAA as initially proposed, would likely require us to make changes to our flight operations that could materially increase our costs. Continental, United and other airlines and trade associations have submitted comments to the FAA to reduce these proposed burdens substantially, but it is unclear at this time whether the FAA will adopt them in its final rule.  

International Regulation.  

General. International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. In connection with the Company’s international services, the Company is regulated by both the U.S. government and the governments of the foreign countries United and Continental serve. In addition, the availability of international routes to U.S. carriers is regulated by aviation agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments, and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments.  

Airport Access. Historically, access to foreign markets has been tightly controlled through bilateral agreements between the U.S. and each foreign country involved. These agreements regulate the markets served, the number of carriers allowed to serve each market and the frequency of carriers’ flights. Since the early 1990s, the U.S. has pursued a policy of “open skies” (meaning all U.S.-flag carriers have access to the destination), under which the U.S. government has negotiated a number of bilateral agreements allowing unrestricted access between U.S. and foreign markets. Currently, there are more than 100 open skies agreements in effect. Additionally, many of the airports that United and Continental serve in Europe, Asia and Latin America, maintain slot controls. A large number of these are restrictive due to congestion at these airports. London Heathrow International Airport (“London Heathrow”), Frankfurt Rhein-Main Airport, Shanghai Pudong  

9  

Table of Contents 

 International Airport, Beijing Capital International Airport, Sao Paulo Guarhulos International Airport and Tokyo Narita International Airport are among the most restrictive airports due to capacity limitations. United and Continental have significant operations at these locations.  

The Company’s ability to serve some foreign markets and expand into certain others is limited by the absence of aviation agreements between the U.S. government and the relevant foreign governments. Shifts in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies may lead to the alteration or termination of air service agreements. Depending on the nature of any such change, the value of the Company’s international route authorities and slot rights may be materially enhanced or diminished.  

The U.S./EU open skies agreement provides U.S. and EU carriers with expansive rights, including the right to operate between any point in the United States and the EU. The agreement has no direct impact on airport slot rights or airport facilities nor does it provide for a reallocation of existing slots or facilities, including those at London Heathrow. Because of the diverse nature of potential impacts on the Company’s business, the overall future impact of the U.S./EU agreement on the Company’s business cannot be predicted with certainty.  

In October 2010, the open skies agreement between the United States and Japan became effective, enabling U.S. or Japanese carriers to fly between any point in the United States and any point in Japan and, in the case of U.S. carriers, beyond Japan to points in other countries the carrier is authorized to serve. The agreement eliminates the restrictions on the number of frequencies carriers can operate and requires governments in both the United States and Japan to concur before taking action to regulate a carrier’s fares or rates.  

Environmental Regulation.   

General. The airline industry is subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, aircraft noise, and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. Areas of developing regulations include new regulations surrounding the emission of greenhouse gases (discussed further below), State of California rule-makings regarding air emissions from ground support equipment, and a federal rule-making concerning the discharge of deicing fluid.  

Climate Change. There are certain laws and regulations relating to climate change that apply to the Company, including the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (“ETS”) (which is subject to legal challenge), environmental taxes for certain international flights (including the United Kingdom’s Air Passenger Duty and Germany’s departure ticket tax), limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements, and the State of California’s cap and trade regulations (which impacts United’s San Francisco Maintenance Center and co-located cogeneration plant). In addition, there are land-use planning laws that could apply to airport expansion projects, requiring a review of greenhouse gas emissions, and could affect airlines in certain circumstances.  

In 2009, the EU issued a directive to member states to include aviation in its greenhouse gas ETS, which required the Company to begin monitoring emissions of carbon dioxide effective January 1, 2010. Beginning in 2012, the ETS would require the Company to ensure it has obtained sufficient emission allowances equal to the amount of carbon dioxide emissions from flights to and from EU member states with such allowances then surrendered on an annual basis to the government. In December 2009, the Air Transportation Association, joined by United, Continental and American Airlines, filed a lawsuit in the United Kingdom challenging regulations that transpose into UK law the EU ETS as applied to U.S. carriers. In addition, non-EU countries are considering filing a formal challenge before the United Nations’ International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”) with respect to the EU’s inclusion of non-EU carriers. If the scheme is found to be valid, it could significantly increase the cost of carriers operating in the EU (by requiring the purchase of carbon credits), although the precise cost to the Company is difficult to calculate with certainty due to a number of variables. Those potential costs will depend, among other things, on the baseline carbon emissions yet to be determined by the EU, the Company’s future carbon emissions from flights to and from the EU, and the price of carbon credits.  

10  

Table of Contents 

In addition to current regulatory programs, there is also the potential for additional climate change regulation. In 2010, the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) found that current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten the public health and welfare. Although legal challenges have been initiated and legislative proposals are expected that may invalidate this endangerment finding (and/or the EPA’s assertion of authority under the Clean Air Act), the finding could result in EPA regulation of commercial aircraft emissions.  

Further, the ICAO recently signaled through an ICAO Assembly Resolution that it will be developing a regulatory scheme for aviation greenhouse gas emissions. There could be other regulatory actions taken in the future by the U.S. government, state governments within the U.S., foreign governments, or through a separate United Nations global climate change treaty to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry, which could result in multiple schemes applying to the same emissions. The precise nature of any such requirements and their applicability to the Company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the Company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits.  

Other Environmental Matters. In addition, the DOT allows local airport authorities to implement procedures designed to abate special noise problems, provided those procedures do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national transportation system and do not conflict with federal law. Some U.S. and foreign airports, including airports located in certain of our hub cities, have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number and scheduling of hourly or daily operations. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in services or increased operating costs, and could limit our ability to expand our operations at the affected airports. 

The airline industry is also subject to other environmental laws and regulations that require the Company to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives and which may require significant expenditures. Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as “Superfund,” and similar environmental cleanup laws, generators of waste materials and owners or operators of facilities can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. The Company also conducts voluntary environmental assessment and remediation actions. Environmental cleanup obligations can arise from, among other circumstances, the operation of aircraft fueling facilities and primarily involve airport sites. Future costs associated with these activities are currently not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Employees   

As of December 31, 2010, UAL, including its subsidiaries, had approximately 86,000 active employees. Approximately 72% of UAL’s employees were represented by various U.S. labor organizations as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, United had approximately 46,000 active employees and Continental had approximately 40,000 active employees. The following table reflects the Company’s employee groups, number of employees per employee group, representative union for each of United’s and Continental’s employee groups, and amendable date for each employee group’s collective bargaining agreement:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Collective bargaining agreements are negotiated under the RLA, which governs labor relations in the air transportation industry. Such agreements typically do not contain an expiration date and instead specify an amendable date, upon which the contract is considered “open for amendment.” Contracts remain in effect while new agreements are negotiated. During the negotiation period, both the Company and the negotiating union are required to maintain the status quo.  

The process for integrating the labor groups of United and Continental is governed by a combination of the RLA, the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of United’s and Continental’s collective bargaining agreements and union policies. Under the RLA, the National Mediation Board (“NMB”) has exclusive authority to resolve union representation disputes arising out of airline mergers. Under the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, “fair and equitable” integration of seniority lists is required, including arbitration where the interested parties cannot reach a consensual agreement. Pending operational integration, the Company will apply the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreements unless other terms have been negotiated.  

12  

Table of Contents 

United has been in negotiations for amended collective bargaining agreements with all of its unions since 2009. Consistent with commitments contained in its current labor contracts, United filed for mediation assistance in conjunction with four of its six unions: ALPA, AFA, IAM and PAFCA. While the labor contract with the Teamsters also contemplates filing for mediation, the parties agreed to continue in direct negotiations. The current contract with the IFPTE does not stipulate filing for mediation.  

In March 2010, Continental reached a tentative agreement on a new four-year labor contract with the union that represents its dispatchers, which was ratified in April 2010. In September 2010, Continental reached a tentative agreement on a new labor contract with the union that represents its aircraft maintenance technicians and related employees, which was ratified in November 2010. Continental negotiated a collective bargaining agreement with the Teamsters covering its fleet service employees in November 2010 which was ratified in December 2010. In January 2011, Continental reached a tentative agreement on a new labor contract with the union that represents its flight attendants. The agreement is scheduled for a ratification vote, the results of which are expected to be announced on or around February 26, 2011.  

After the Company’s May 2010 merger announcement, ALPA opted to suspend negotiations at both United and Continental to focus on joint negotiations for a new collective bargaining agreement that would apply to the combined company. In July 2010, United and Continental reached agreement with ALPA on a Transition and Process Agreement that provides a framework for conducting pilot operations for the two employee groups until the parties reach agreement on a joint collective bargaining agreement and the carriers obtain a single operating certificate. In August 2010, United and Continental began joint negotiations with ALPA and those negotiations are presently ongoing. In December 2010, ALPA and the Company jointly applied to the NMB for mediation assistance for pilots and flight instructors.  

In January 2011, the IAM filed an application seeking single-carrier findings by the NMB for purposes of union representation covering fleet service employees at Continental and ramp service employees at United. Also in January 2011, the AFA announced that it had filed a similar request with the NMB for purposes of union representation for United and Continental flight attendants. The Company anticipates that other applications will be filed by various unions covering smaller groups of employees. If the NMB determines that United and Continental are considered a single carrier, the relevant employees may vote with respect to union representation. Until elections occur, the incumbent unions will continue to represent those employee groups who are currently represented.  

The outcome of these labor negotiations may materially impact the Company’s future financial results. However, the Company is unable at this time to assess the timing or magnitude of such impact, if any. 

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.