ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Interest Rates. Our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable-rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). The Company’s policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. The following table summarizes information related to the Company’s interest rate market risk at December 31, 2010 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) UAL and United presented interest rate market risk disclosures in a tabular format in 2009. Management believes that the sensitivity analysis presentation provides a better disclosure by quantifying the potential impact of an assumed interest rate change. Due to this change, UAL and United are also disclosing sensitivity analysis for their debt outstanding at December 31, 2009.  

 (b) As of December 31, 2009, UAL, United and Continental had outstanding variable rate debt of $2.6 billion, $2.6 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively.  

 (c) Based on UAL’s and United’s variable rate debt at December 31, 2009, the impact of an assumed 100 basis point change for UAL and United on 2010 interest expense would have been $26 million.  

 (d) As of December 31, 2009, UAL, United and Continental had outstanding fixed rate debt with a carrying value of $4.7 billion, $4.3 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively.  

 (e) As of December 31, 2009, UAL, United and Continental had fixed rate debt with a fair value of $4.1 billion, $3.5 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively.  

 (f) If market interest rates increased 100 basis points at December 31, 2009, the fair value of UAL and United fixed-rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2009, would have decreased by approximately $83 million and $80 million, respectively.  

A change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2010 levels, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in UAL, United and Continental interest income of approximately $77 million, $43 million and $34 million, respectively, during 2011.  

Commodity Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel). Our results of operations and liquidity are significantly impacted by changes in the price of aircraft fuel.  

To protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the Company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements, provided the hedges are expected to be cost effective. The Company uses fixed price swaps, purchased call options, collars or other such commonly used financial hedge instruments. These hedge instruments are based directly on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities like heating oil and crude oil. The Company strives to maintain fuel hedging levels and exposure consistent with industry standards so that the Company’s fuel cost is not disproportionate to the fuel costs of its major competitors.  

Some hedge instruments may result in losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floors or swap prices. However, the negative impact of these losses may be outweighed by the benefit of lower aircraft fuel cost since the Company typically hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements, and uses swaps or sold puts (as a part of a collar) on only a portion of the fuel requirement that it does hedge. The Company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes.  

71  

Table of Contents 

The Company may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. The following table summarizes information related to the Company’s cost of aircraft fuel and hedging (in millions, except percentages):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Includes related taxes and excludes hedging impacts and special charges. In 2009, UAL’s, United’s and Continental’s fuel cost was 26% of total operating expense.  

 (b) Based on 2011 projected fuel consumption.  

 (c) As of December 31, 2009, the net fair value of UAL’s, United’s and Continental’s fuel hedges was $133 million, $133 million and $14 million, respectively.  

 (d) Based on fuel hedge positions at December 31, 2010, as summarized in the table below.  

As of December 31, 2010, our projected fuel requirements for 2011 were hedged as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Represents a hedge of approximately 60% of UAL’s expected first quarter consumption with decreasing hedge coverage later throughout 2011.  

72  

Table of Contents 

Foreign Currency. The Company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Company’s results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. Some of the Company’s more significant foreign currency exposures include the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen, British pound and the European euro. The Company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes.  

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, United did not have any foreign currency hedges. At December 31, 2010, Continental had forward contracts outstanding to hedge 24% of its projected Japanese yen-denominated cash inflows, primarily from passenger ticket sales, through 2011. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of those hedges was $7 million and is included in other current liabilities in Continental’s consolidated balance sheets. Continental estimates that a uniform strengthening of 10% in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Japanese yen at December 31, 2010 would increase the fair value of its yen hedges by $10 million and increase its underlying exposure by $40 million, resulting in a net loss of $30 million.  

73  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA