Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

 Our discussion below of our results includes certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide important perspective with respect to underlying business trends. Any non-GAAP financial measure will be denoted as an adjusted measure and our fiscal 2013 comparisons to fiscal 2012 exclude the impact from Business Transformation Project costs, multiemployer pension plan charges, severance charges, executive retirement plans restructuring, a one-time acquisition related charge and facility closure charges. Collectively, these are referred to as Excluded Charges. Our fiscal 2012 comparisons to fiscal 2011 exclude the impact from Business Transformation Project costs, multiemployer pension plan charges, severance charges, corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) policies and certain tax benefits. More information on the rationale for the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.”  

 Overview  

 Sysco distributes food and related products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. Our operations are primarily located throughout the United States, Bahamas, Canada, Ireland and Northern Ireland and include broadline companies (which include our custom-cut meat operations), SYGMA (our chain restaurant distribution subsidiary), specialty produce companies, hotel supply operations, a company that distributes specialty imported products and a company that distributes to international customers.  

 We consider our primary market to be the foodservice market in the United States and Canada and estimate that we serve about 18% of this approximately $235 billion annual market. According to industry sources, the foodservice, or food-away-from-home, market represents approximately 48% of the total dollars spent on food purchases made at the consumer level in the United States.   

 Industry sources estimate the total foodservice market in the United States experienced a real sales increase of approximately 1.3% in calendar year 2012 and a decline of 0.1% in calendar year 2011. Real sales changes do not include the impact of inflation or deflation.  

 General economic conditions and consumer confidence can affect the frequency of purchases and amounts spent by consumers for food-away-from-home and, in turn, can impact our customers and our sales. We believe the current general economic conditions, including pressure on consumer disposable income, have contributed to a decline in the foodservice market. Historically, we have grown at a faster rate than the overall industry and believe we have continued to grow our market share in this fragmented industry.   

 Highlights  

 Fiscal 2013 was a year in which we progressed with our Business Transformation Project while facing a challenging business and economic environment. The foodservice industry has not fully participated in the overall economic recovery primarily due to constrained consumer spending for food-away-from-home. Our results of operations reflect these challenges as well as expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, payroll costs, charges from the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans and increased fuel expense. We believe our sales growth and expense management on a cost per cases basis was acceptable, however gross profit did not grow as we planned due partially to competitive pressures and a shift in customer mix. We will remain focused on the execution of our business plan and initiatives from our Business Transformation Project, with the goal for these items to contribute to the long-term success of our customers and in turn, growth in our earnings. We acquired 14 companies during fiscal 2013, which represents annualized sales in excess of $1 billion. We expect these acquisitions will contribute to our sales growth, enhance our international market presence and product assortment.  

 Comparison of results from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·    Adjusted operating income decreased 1.7%, or $36.4 million, to $2.1 billion. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·    Adjusted net earnings increased 0.1%, or $1.4 million, to $1.3 billion. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·    Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $2.14 in fiscal 2013, a 0.5% decrease from the comparable prior year amount of $2.15 per share. 

 See “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” for an explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures.  

 17  

 Trends and Strategy  

 Trends  

 General economic conditions and consumer confidence can affect the frequency of purchases and amounts spent by consumers for food-away-from-home and, in turn, can impact our customers and our sales. Consumer confidence has improved since 2008, however it remains below its historical highs. We believe that the consumer is currently concerned about lingering unemployment levels and lack of growth in personal income. We believe these items and other current general economic conditions, have negatively impacted consumer confidence and contributed to a slow rate of recovery in the foodservice market. While these trends can be cyclical in nature, greater consumer confidence will be required to reverse the trend. According to industry sources, real sales growth for the total foodservice market in the United States is expected to be modest over the long-term. Non-traditional competitors are becoming more of a factor in terms of competition within our industry, and consumer spending trends are gradually shifting more to fresh, natural and sustainably-produced products. We believe these industry trends reinforce the need for us to transform our business so that we can be in a position to provide greater value to our customers and reduce our overall cost structure.   

 Our gross margin performance has been influenced by multiple factors. Our sales growth in fiscal 2013 was greater with our large regional and national customers. Gross margin from these types of customers is generally lower than our independent restaurant customers. If sales from our independent restaurant customers do not grow at the same rate or a greater rate than sales from these large regional and national customers, our gross margins may decline. Additional pressure exists on our gross margin from competitive pricing pressures. Low growth in the foodservice market is contributing to increased competition which is in turn pressuring gross profits. We expect this pricing pressure will likely continue. Inflation can be a factor that contributes to gross margin pressure; however, inflation rates remained relatively stable throughout fiscal 2013 at a rate between 2.0% to 2.5%. Inflation was present in certain product categories such as poultry and meat, but was not significant in the majority of our product categories. While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at current levels, periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit, operating income and earnings.   

 We have experienced higher operating expenses this fiscal year as compared to fiscal 2012. Our Business Transformation Project has been a primary contributor to this increase. This project is a key part of our strategy to control costs and grow our market share over the long-term. This project includes an integrated software system that went into deployment in August 2012, resulting in increased deployment expenses and software amortization. In fiscal 2012, we were still building and testing our software and therefore had a greater amount of capitalized costs. We believe expenses related to the project in fiscal 2014 will be similar to the costs incurred in fiscal 2013. Operating expenses have also increased due to provisions related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals. These pension plan provisions generally occur when a collective bargaining agreement is being renewed. Pay-related expenses have increased primarily from acquired companies and within delivery areas of our business, however these have been partially offset by lower costs in the selling and information technology areas due to initiatives from our Business Transformation Project. Fuel costs have increased due to both increases diesel prices and gallon usage.  

 Our retirement-related expenses consist primarily of costs from our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan), our Supplement Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) and our defined contribution plan. The net impact in fiscal 2013 of our retirement-related expenses as compared to fiscal 2012 was an increase of $31.3 million. At the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2012 for all United States-based (U.S.-based) salaried and non-union hourly employees. Effective January 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. Absent the Retirement Plan freeze discussed above, net company-sponsored pension costs would have increased $106.9 million in fiscal 2013, however because of the freeze the costs decreased as compared to fiscal 2012. Our expenses related to our defined contribution plan increased in fiscal 2013. During fiscal 2013, we approved a plan to restructure our executive nonqualified retirement program, including the SERP, by freezing benefits. We believe this restructuring more closely aligns our executive plans with our non-executive plans. As a result of this restructuring, we incurred $21.0 million in charges in fiscal 2013. We expect our retirement-related expenses will decrease in the range of $75 million to $85 million in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. A greater portion of the decrease will occur in the second half of fiscal 2014 due to operation of our enhanced, defined contribution plan for a one-year period. Excluding the $21.0 million restructuring charge in fiscal 2013, the decrease is expected to be $50 million to $60 million in fiscal 2014. Over the long-term, we believe the changes to all of these retirement programs will result in reduced volatility of retirement-related expenses and a reduction in total retirement-related expenses.  

 We expect gross margin pressure to persist in fiscal 2014; however, we intend to achieve sales case growth and to reduce costs per case to improve our earnings performance trends in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013.  

 18  

 Strategy   

 We are focused on optimizing our core broadline business in the United States, Canada and Ireland, while continuing to explore appropriate opportunities to profitably grow our market share and create shareholder value by expanding beyond our core business. Day-to-day, our business decisions are driven by our mission to market and deliver great products to our customers with exceptional service, with the aspirational vision of becoming each of our customers’ most valued and trusted business partner. We have identified five strategies to help us achieve our mission and vision:  

   ·    Profoundly enrich the experience of doing business with Sysco: Our primary focus is to help our customers succeed. We believe that by building on our current competitive advantages, we will be able to further differentiate our offering to customers. Our competitive advantages include our sales force of over 7,000 marketing associates; our diversified product base, which includes quality-assured Sysco brand products; the suite of services we provide to our customers such as business reviews and menu analysis; and our wide geographic presence in the United States and Canada. In addition, we have a portfolio of businesses spanning broadline, specialty meat, chain restaurant distribution, specialty produce, hotel amenities, specialty import and export which serves our customers’ needs across a wide array of business segments. Through our Sysco Ventures platform, we are developing a suite of technology solutions that help support the administrative needs of our customers. We believe this strategy of enriching the experience of doing business with Sysco will increase customer retention and profitably accelerate sales growth with both existing and new customers. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·    Expand our portfolio of products and services by initiating a customer-centric innovation program: We continually explore opportunities to provide new and improved products, technologies and services to our customers.  

   ·    Explore, assess and pursue new businesses and markets: This strategy is focused on identifying opportunities to expand the core business through growth in new international markets and in adjacent areas that complement our core foodservice distribution business. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses. 

   ·    Develop and effectively integrate a comprehensive, enterprise-wide talent management process: Our ability to drive results and grow our business is directly linked to having the best talent in the industry. We are committed to the continued enhancement of our talent management programs in terms of how we recruit, select, train and develop our associates throughout Sysco as well as succession planning. Our ultimate objective is to provide our associates with outstanding opportunities for professional growth and career development.  

 Business Transformation Project   

 Our multi-year Business Transformation Project consists of:  

   ·    the design and deployment of an ERP system to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations;  

   ·    a cost transformation initiative to lower our cost structure;  

   ·    a product cost reduction and category management initiative to use market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment; and 

   ·    several other initiatives. 

 We deployed our ERP system to three additional locations in fiscal 2013 and experienced improved functionality in many areas compared to past deployments. Our shared services center, Sysco Business Services, continues to expand and provide a broader array of centralized administrative services. The majority of the system functionality is performing as designed; however, we have identified areas for improvement to certain components of the system that we want to address before we continue deploying to additional locations. These improvements include simplifying certain processes to improve response times and reduce system loads. We believe that this will improve system stability and result in improved ability to scale the system as we move forward. While these   

 19  

improvements are being made, we will continue implementing individual modules such as our human resource module and continue with other Business Transformation initiatives. We intend to deploy the system to one additional location around the end of this calendar year. If our updates are successful, we anticipate that further deployment will resume early in calendar 2014. Our deployment schedule will be further defined at that time.   

 Our cost transformation initiative seeks to lower our cost structure by $300 million to $350 million annually by fiscal 2015. These include initiatives to increase our productivity in the warehouse and delivery activities including fleet management and maintenance activities. It also involves improving sales productivity and reducing general and administrative expenses, partially through aligning compensation and benefit plans. Efforts from our cost transformation initiatives in fiscal 2013 spanned many areas of operations. We completed the implementation of maintenance management tools in our United States Broadline (U.S. Broadline) companies. A customer relationship management tool has been implemented in our U.S. Broadline companies that will improve sales productivity. We restructured our information technology department and contracted with a third party provider for information technology managed services. For our U.S. Broadline companies, we accelerated the implementation of our human resource module from our ERP system which is expected to be complete by the third quarter of fiscal 2014. Also, in our U.S. Broadline companies we began centralizing field finance work to our shared services center. We believe this transition will be complete by December 2013. We have begun implementing enhancements to our routing technology and processes to improve delivery efficiencies and expect this initiative to be complete by fiscal 2015. Lastly, our retirement programs have been restructured, which we believe will result in reduced volatility of retirement-related expenses and a reduction in total retirement-related expenses in the long-term.   

 Our product cost reduction and category management initiative is designed to lower our total product costs by $250 million to $300 million annually by fiscal 2015 and to align our product assortment with current customer demand. We are using market data and customer insights to make changes to our product assortment while building strategic partnerships with our suppliers. We believe there are opportunities to more effectively provide the products that our customers want, commit to greater volumes with our suppliers and create mutual benefits for all parties. We believe that procuring greater quantities with select vendors will result in reduced prices for our product purchases. In fiscal 2013, our product cost reduction and category management initiative was active in reducing SKUs in our inventory and increasing participation in our centralized purchasing initiative. We are in the process of piloting four product categories in our category management initiative and have received encouraging acceptance rates from our customers of our new assortment of products. Our suppliers have engaged in the process and appreciate building strategic partnerships that include customer insights into current trends and product innovations..  

 Expenses related to the Business Transformation Project were $330.5 million in fiscal 2013 or $0.36 per share, $193.1 million in fiscal 2012 or $0.21 per share and $102.6 million in fiscal 2011 or $0.11 per share. The increase in costs in 2013 was largely attributable to deployment costs and software amortization, which began in August 2012. Software amortization totaled $76.8 million in 2013. The increase in costs in 2012 was due to increased project spending, reduced capitalization of expenditures and expenses due to the ramp up of our shared services center. We anticipate that project expenses for fiscal 2014 will be similar to fiscal 2013. Despite the increase in expense, our cash outlay for our Business Transformation Project, which excludes non-cash software amortization, decreased approximately $48 million as compared to fiscal 2012.   

 Our goal for our Business Transformation Project is to generate approximately $550 million to $650 million in annual benefits to be achieved by fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2013, we believe we exceeded our goal of realizing approximately 25% of the total benefit. In fiscal 2014, we believe we can obtain approximately 50% to 70% of the total targeted benefit. If we are successful in obtaining these benefits in fiscal 2014, some of the trends in gross profits and operating expenses noted above could be favorably impacted.   

 Our original goal was to grow our diluted earnings per share to $2.50 to $2.75 by fiscal 2015. Despite the success of our Business Transformation Project, our diluted earnings per share has not grown as originally anticipated due to the difficult economic environment and the general operating performance of our underlying business that did not meet our expectations. We no longer believe we will achieve our original goal of producing diluted earnings per share to $2.50 to $2.75 by fiscal 2015.  

 20  

 Results of Operations  

 The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage of sales for the periods indicated:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following table sets forth the change in the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Other expense (income), net was income of $17.5 million in fiscal 2013, $6.8 million in fiscal 2012 and $14.2 million in fiscal 2011.  

 Sales  

 Sales for fiscal 2013 were 4.8% higher than fiscal 2012. Sales for fiscal 2013 increased as a result of product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months and case volume growth. Our sales growth in fiscal 2013 was greater with our large regional and national customers as compared to sales growth with our independent restaurant customers. We believe our independent sales growth has been negatively influenced by lower consumer sentiment. Case volumes excluding acquisitions within the last 12 months improved 1.3% in fiscal 2013. Our case volumes represent our results from our Broadline and SYGMA segments only. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 1.5% for fiscal 2013. Our acquisition activity has been greater in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. We estimate the carryover impact into fiscal 2014 will cause sales to increase by approximately 1.0%. We expect to continue the trend of closing acquisitions in fiscal 2014 that will continue to add at least 1.0% in total annualized sales from new acquisitions in fiscal 2014. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 2.2% during fiscal 2013. Case volumes including acquisitions within the last 12 months improved approximately 2.6% in fiscal 2013. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales when compared to fiscal 2012.   

 Sales for fiscal 2012 were 7.8% higher than fiscal 2011. Sales for fiscal 2012 increased as a result of product cost inflation, and the resulting increase in selling prices, along with improving case volumes. Changes in product cost, an internal measure of inflation, were approximately 5.5% during fiscal 2012. Case volumes including acquisitions within the last 12 months improved approximately   

 21  

3.0% during fiscal 2012. Case volumes excluding acquisitions within the last 12 months improved approximately 2.5% during fiscal 2012. Sales from acquisitions in the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 0.7% for fiscal 2012.  The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales when compared to fiscal 2011.   

 Operating Income  

 Cost of sales primarily includes our product costs, net of vendor consideration, and includes in-bound freight. Operating expenses include the costs of facilities, product handling, delivery, selling and general and administrative activities.  Fuel surcharges are reflected within sales and gross profit; fuel costs are reflected within operating expenses.   

 Fiscal 2013 vs. Fiscal 2012  

 The following table sets forth the change in the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The decrease in operating income in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 was primarily driven by increased expenses, including charges related to our Business Transformation Project and increased pay-related expenses.   

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to increased sales. Gross margin, which is gross profit as a percentage of sales, was 17.72% in fiscal 2013, a decline of 39 basis points from the gross margin of 18.11% in fiscal 2012. This decline in gross margin was partially the result of increased growth from large regional and national customers. Gross margin from these types of customers is generally lower than other types of customers. As seen in our results during fiscal 2013, if sales from our independent restaurant customers do not grow at the same rate sales from these large regional and national customers, our gross margins may decline. Increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market also contributed to the decline in gross margins.  

  We estimate that Sysco’s product cost inflation was 2.2% during fiscal 2013. Based on our product sales mix for fiscal 2013, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the poultry and meat product categories. While we cannot predict whether inflation will occur, prolonged periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit and earnings.   

 Operating expenses for fiscal 2013 increased 7.3%, or $423.2 million, over fiscal 2012, primarily due to increased expenses from our Business Transformation Project, pay-related expenses, charges related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel. Adjusted operating expenses increased 4.1%, or $227.4 million, in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. The increase in adjusted operating expenses was primarily due to increased pay-related expenses, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel.  

 Expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, inclusive of pay-related and software amortization expense, were $330.5 million in fiscal 2013 and $193.1 million in fiscal 2012, representing an increase of $137.4 million. The increase in fiscal 2013 resulted in part from the initiation of software amortization as the system was placed into service in August 2012. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense related to the Business Transformation Project was $59.6 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. Our project was not in the deployment stage during any period of fiscal 2012; therefore, a greater portion of the costs were capitalized in fiscal 2012. We anticipate that project expenses for fiscal 2014 will be similar to fiscal 2013.    

 Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business Transformation Project and retirement-related expenses, increased by $48.3 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. The increase was primarily due to added costs from companies acquired in the last 12 months and increased delivery and warehouse compensation. Delivery and warehouse compensation includes activity-based pay which will increase when our case volumes increase. Additionally, pay rates have been higher particularly in geographies where oil and gas exploration occurs due to labor shortages. These increases were partially offset by reduced sales and information   

 22  

technology pay-related expenses as a result of some of our Business Transformation initiatives. During fiscal 2013, we streamlined our sales management organization and modified marketing associate compensation plans. We also restructured our information technology department during the mid-point of fiscal 2013, reducing headcount as a result.   

 Our retirement-related expenses consist primarily of costs from our Retirement Plan, SERP and our defined contribution plan. The net impact in fiscal 2013 of our retirement-related expenses as compared to fiscal 2012 was an increase of $31.3 million, consisting of $48.1 million increased costs from the defined contribution plan, a $20.8 million decrease in our net company-sponsored pension costs and approximately $4 million for other costs. At the end of fiscal 2012, Sysco decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2012 for all U.S.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. Effective January 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. Absent the Retirement Plan freeze, net company-sponsored pension costs would have increased $106.9 million in fiscal 2013.  During fiscal 2013, we approved a plan to restructure our executive nonqualified retirement program including the SERP and our executive deferred compensation plan. A non-qualified defined contribution plan became effective on January 1, 2013 as a replacement plan and benefits were frozen under the SERP at the end of fiscal 2013. We believe this restructuring more closely aligned our executive plans with our non-executive plans. As a result of this restructuring, we incurred $21.0 million in charges in fiscal 2013. We expect our retirement-related expenses in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 will decrease in the range of $75 million to $85 million primarily from reduced expenses of our Retirement Plan, partially offset by increased defined contribution plan expenses. A greater portion of the decrease will occur in the second half of fiscal 2014 due to operation of our enhanced, defined contribution plan for a one-year period. Excluding the $21.0 million restructuring charge in fiscal 2013 and the decrease in fiscal 2014 is expected to be $50 million to $60 million. Over the long-term, we believe the changes to all of these retirement programs will result in reduced volatility of retirement-related expenses and a reduction in total retirement-related expenses.  

 Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $95.6 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. The increase related to our Business Transformation Project is described above. The remaining increase of $36.0 million in fiscal 2013 was primarily related to assets that were not placed in service in fiscal 2012 that were in service in fiscal 2013, primarily from new facilities, property from new acquisitions and expansions.   

 From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. In fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, we recorded provisions of $41.9 million and $21.9 million, respectively, related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals.   

 Fuel costs increased by $18.9 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. The increase was primarily due to increased contracted diesel prices and increased gallon usage. Our costs per gallon increased 2.8% in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. Our activities to mitigate fuel costs include reducing miles driven by our trucks through improved routing techniques, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges. We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements with a goal of mitigating a portion of the volatility in fuel prices.   

 Our fuel commitments will result in either additional fuel costs or avoided fuel costs based on the comparison of the prices on the fixed price contracts and market prices for the respective periods. In fiscal 2013, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $17.8 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes. In fiscal 2012, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $20.2 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes.  

 As of June 29, 2013, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $204.0 million through August 2014. These contracts will lock in the price of approximately 60% to 65% of our fuel purchase needs for the remainder of the fiscal year at prices slightly lower than the current market price for diesel. Assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2014, fuel costs, exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to increase by approximately $10 to $20 million as compared to fiscal 2013. Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2014 and estimates of fuel consumption. Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. We continue to evaluate all opportunities to offset potential increases in fuel expense, including the use of fuel surcharges and overall expense management.   

 We also measure our expense performance on a cost per case basis. This metric is calculated by taking the total operating expense of our Broadline companies, excluding charges multiemployer pension plans and severance charges, divided by the number of cases sold. We seek to grow our sales and either minimize or reduce our costs on a per case basis. Our fiscal 2013 cost per case decreased by more than $0.03 per case as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily from reduced pay-related expenses from our sales and information technology areas, partially offset by increased costs from delivery and warehouse pay-related expenses, increased retirement-related expenses and fuel increases. We expect to continue to reduce our Broadline companies cost per case in fiscal 2014 by approximately $0.05 per case partially from reduced retirement-related expenses.  

 23  

 Fiscal 2012 vs. Fiscal 2011   

 The following table sets forth the change in the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The decrease in operating income from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by declines in gross margin and increased operating expenses partially from increased expenses from payroll and our Business Transformation Project. These expense increases were partially offset by increases in gross profit dollars.   

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to increased sales. Gross margin, which is gross profit as a percentage of sales, was 18.11% in fiscal 2012, a decline of 69 basis points from the gross margin of 18.80% in fiscal 2011. This decline in gross margin was primarily the result of product cost inflation.  Other factors contributing to our gross margin decline were competitive pressures on pricing, segment mix changes where certain of our lower margin segments grew faster than our Broadline segment and our own strategy to gain market share.   

 Sysco’s product cost inflation was estimated as inflation of 5.5% during fiscal 2012. Based on our product sales mix for fiscal 2012, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the meat, canned and dry and frozen product categories in the range of 6% to 8%. Our product cost inflation reached a high of 7.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and a low of 3.3% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. While we are generally able to pass through modest levels of inflation to our customers, we were unable to fully pass through these higher levels of product cost inflation with the same gross margin in these product categories without negatively impacting our customers’ business and therefore our business.   

 Gross profit dollars for fiscal 2012 also increased as a result of higher fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges were approximately $47.5 million higher in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011 due to higher fuel prices incurred during fiscal 2012 and the application of fuel surcharges to a broader customer base for the entire fiscal period.   

 Operating expenses for fiscal 2012 increased 5.9% primarily due to increased pay-related expenses, increased expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, increased fuel costs and an unfavorable year-over-year comparison on the amounts recorded to adjust the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values as compared to the prior year period. These increases were partially offset by decreases in net company-sponsored pension costs and lower provisions related to multiemployer pension plans. Adjusted operating expenses increased 4.2%, or $221.7 million, in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011.  

 Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business Transformation Project, increased by $153.7 million in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011. The increase was primarily due to increased sales and delivery compensation and added costs from companies acquired within the last 12 months.  Sales compensation includes commissions which are driven by gross profit dollars and case volumes, and delivery compensation includes activity-based pay which is driven by case volumes. Since these drivers were variable in nature, increased gross profit dollars and cases volumes increased sales and delivery compensation. Also contributing to the increase in pay-related expenses was an increase in severance incurred in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011 of $5.7 million.  

 Expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, inclusive of pay-related expense, were $193.1 million in fiscal 2012 and $102.6 million in fiscal 2011, representing an increase of $90.5 million. The increase in fiscal 2012 resulted from increased project spending, reduced capitalization of expenditures and expenses due to the ramp up of our shared services center.   

 Fuel costs increased by $39.8 million in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011 primarily due to increased contracted and market diesel prices. Our costs per gallon increased 13.0% in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011. Our fuel commitments will result in either additional fuel costs or avoided fuel costs based on the comparison of the prices on the fixed price contracts and market prices for the respective periods. In fiscal 2012, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $20.2 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes. In fiscal 2011, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $16.4 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes.   

 24  

 We adjust the carrying values of our COLI policies to their cash surrender values on an ongoing basis. The cash surrender values of these policies are largely based on the values of underlying investments, which through fiscal 2011 included publicly traded securities. As a result, the cash surrender values of these policies fluctuated with changes in the market value of such securities. The changes in the financial markets resulted in gains for these policies of $28.2 million in fiscal 2011.  Near the end of fiscal 2011, we reallocated all of our policies into low-risk, fixed-income securities to reduce earnings volatility and therefore our adjustments for fiscal 2012 were not significant.   

 Net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2012 were $27.3 million lower than in fiscal 2011. The decrease in fiscal 2012 was due primarily to higher returns on assets of Sysco’s Retirement Plan obtained in fiscal 2011.    

 From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. In the last two fiscal years, we voluntary withdrew from several multiemployer plans and recorded provisions of $21.9 million in fiscal 2012 and $41.5 million in fiscal 2011.   

 Our fiscal 2012, our Broadline companies cost per case increased approximately $0.04 per case as compared to fiscal 2011 primarily from increased pay-related expenses and higher fuel costs.   

 Net Earnings  

 Net earnings decreased 11.5% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012 due primarily to the changes in operating income discussed above. Adjusted net earnings increased 0.1% in fiscal 2013. The increase in adjusted net earnings in fiscal 2013 was primarily from increased gross profits, partially offset by increases in adjusted operating expenses that were primarily due to increased pay-related expenses, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel.  

 Net earnings for fiscal 2012 decreased 2.6% over fiscal 2011. This decrease was primarily due to changes in operating income discussed above. Adjusted net earnings increased 4.6% during fiscal 2012.   

 The effective tax rate of 35.87% for fiscal 2013 was favorably impacted primarily by two items. First, we recorded a tax benefit of $14.0 million related to changes in estimates for the prior year domestic tax provision. Second, we recorded a tax benefit of $8.8 million related to disqualifying dispositions of Sysco stock pursuant to share-based compensation arrangements. The effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the recording of $5.7 million in tax and interest related to various federal, foreign and state uncertain tax positions. Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statutory rates less than our domestic tax rate also had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.  

 The effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 was 37.13%. Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statutory tax rates less than our domestic tax rate had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.  

 The effective tax rate of 36.96% for fiscal 2011 was favorably impacted primarily by two items. First, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $17.0 million for the reversal of valuation allowances previously recorded on state net operating loss carryforwards. Second, we adjust the carrying values of our COLI policies to their cash surrender values. The gain of $28.2 million recorded in fiscal 2011 was primarily non-taxable for income tax purposes, and had the impact of decreasing income tax expense for the period by $11.1 million. Partially offsetting these favorable impacts was the recording of $9.3 million in tax and interest related to various federal, foreign and state uncertain tax positions.  

 Earnings Per Share  

 Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2013 was $1.68, a 12.0% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.91 per share. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2013 was $1.67, a 12.1% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.90 per share. This decrease was primarily the result of the factors discussed above. Adjusted diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2013 was $2.14, a decrease of 0.5% from the comparable prior year period amount of $2.15.  

 All earnings per share metrics for the fiscal 2013 were partially impacted from greater shares outstanding. Sysco experienced a greater number of stock option exercises in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012, which has increased the number of shares outstanding.  

 Basic and diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2012 were $1.91 and $1.90, respectively. This represents a 2.6% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount for basic earnings per share of $1.96 per share and a 3.1% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount for diluted earnings per share of $1.96. This decrease was primarily the result of the factors discussed above. Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $2.14 in fiscal 2012 and $2.05 in fiscal 2011, or an increase of 4.4%.   

 25  

 Non-GAAP Reconciliations   

 Sysco’s results of operations are impacted by costs from the Business Transformation Project (BTP costs), multiemployer pension plans (MEPP), severance, executive retirement plans restructuring, a one-time acquisition related charge and facility closure charges. Management believes that adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove the impact of these items provides an important perspective with respect to underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the performance of the company’s underlying operations and facilitates comparison on a year-over year basis.   

 Additionally, near the end of fiscal 2011, we reallocated all of our investments in our COLI policies into low-risk, fixed-income securities and therefore we do not expect significant volatility in operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share in future periods related to these policies. We experienced significant gains in these policies during fiscal 2011. In addition, we recorded tax benefits in fiscal 2011. As such, the comparison of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 is also adjusted for COLI gains and recognized tax benefits.  

 The company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. These financial measures should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company’s results of operations for periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. As a result, in the tables below, where applicable, each period presented is adjusted to remove costs of the Business Transformation Project, MEPP, severance, executive retirement plan restructuring, a one-time acquisition related charge, facility closure charges, COLI gains and recognized tax benefits.  

 26  

 Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to adjusted results for these measures for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The aggregate tax impact of adjustments for Business Transformation Project, multiemployer pension plan expenses, severance charges, executive retirement plans restructuring and facility closure charges was $150.3 million and $85.2 million for fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

 (2)  Individual components of diluted earnings per share may not sum to the total adjusted diluted earnings due to rounding.  

 27  

 Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to adjusted results for these measures for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  The aggregate tax impact of adjustments for Business Transformation Project, multiemployer pension plan expenses and severance charges was $85.2 million and $56.5 million for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

 (2)  Individual components of diluted earnings per share may not sum to the total adjusted diluted earnings due to rounding.  

 28  

 Segment Results  

 We have aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined in accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise. The accounting policies for the segments are the same as those disclosed by Sysco within the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data within Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Intersegment sales represent specialty produce and imported specialty products distributed by the Broadline and SYGMA operating companies.   

 Management evaluates the performance of each of our operating segments based on its respective operating income results.  Corporate expenses generally include all expenses of the corporate office and Sysco’s shared service center. These also include all share-based compensation costs and expenses related to the company’s Business Transformation Project. While a segment’s operating income may be impacted in the short-term by increases or decreases in gross profits, expenses, or a combination thereof, over the long-term each business segment is expected to increase its operating income at a greater rate than sales growth. This is consistent with our long-term goal of leveraging earnings growth at a greater rate than sales growth.   

 The following table sets forth the operating income of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage of each segment’s sales for each period reported and should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following table sets forth the change in the selected financial data of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage increase over the prior year and should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) SYGMA had operating income of $52.0 million in fiscal 2013, $61.0 million in fiscal 2012 and $62.2 million in fiscal 2011.  

 The following table sets forth sales and operating income of each of our reportable segments, the other segment, and intersegment sales, expressed as a percentage of aggregate segment sales, including intersegment sales, and operating income, respectively. For purposes of this statistical table, operating income of our segments excludes corporate expenses of $894.3 million in fiscal 2013, $677.6 million in fiscal 2012 and $558.8 million in fiscal 2011 that are not charged to our segments. This information should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 29  

 Broadline Segment  

 The Broadline reportable segment is an aggregation of the company’s United States, Canadian, Caribbean and European Broadline segments. Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to both traditional and chain restaurant customers, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and other venues where foodservice products are served. These companies also provide custom-cut meat operations. Broadline operations have significantly higher operating margins than the rest of Sysco’s operations. In fiscal 2013, the Broadline operating results represented approximately 81.3% of Sysco’s overall sales and 94.1% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses.  

 There are several factors which contribute to these higher operating results as compared to the SYGMA and Other operating segments. We have invested substantial amounts in assets, operating methods, technology and management expertise in this segment. The breadth of its sales force, geographic reach of its distribution area and its purchasing power allow us to benefit from this segment’s earnings.  

 Sales  

 Sales were 5.0% greater in fiscal 2013 than fiscal 2012. Sales for fiscal 2013 increased as a result of product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months and improving case volumes. Our sales growth in fiscal 2013 has been greater with our large regional and national customers as compared to sales growth with our independent restaurant customers. We believe our independent sales growth has been negatively influenced by lower consumer sentiment. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months contributed 1.6% to the overall sales comparison for fiscal 2013. Our acquisition activity has been greater in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. We estimate the carryover impact into fiscal 2014 will cause sales to increase by approximately 1.0%. We expect to continue at the trend of closing acquisitions in fiscal 2014 that will continue to add annualized sales from new acquisitions in fiscal 2014. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 2.3% in fiscal 2013. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales when compared to fiscal 2012.   

 Sales for fiscal 2012 were 7.8% greater than fiscal 2011. Product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, combined with case volume improvement, contributed to the increase in sales in fiscal 2012. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 5.7% in fiscal 2012. Non-comparable acquisitions contributed 0.7% to the overall sales comparison for fiscal 2012. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars negatively impacted sales by 0.1% compared to fiscal 2011.   

 Operating Income  

 Operating income decreased by 0.6% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012. This decrease was driven by operating expenses increasing more than gross profit dollars.   

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2013 primarily due to increased sales; however, gross profit dollars increased at a lower rate than sales. This decline in gross margin was partially the result of increased growth from large regional and national customers. Gross margin from these types of customers is generally lower than from other types of customers. As seen in our results during fiscal 2013, if sales from our independent restaurant customers do not grow at the same rate as sales from these large regional and national customers, our gross margins may decline. Increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market also contributed to the decline in gross margins. Our Broadline segment experienced product cost inflation in fiscal 2013. Based on our product sales mix during fiscal 2013, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the poultry and meat product categories. While we cannot predict whether inflation will occur, prolonged periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit and earnings.   

 Operating expenses for the Broadline segment increased in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. The expense increases in fiscal 2013 were driven largely by charges related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals, pay-related expenses including severance costs, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel. The increase in pay-related expenses was primarily due to increased delivery and warehouse compensation, partially attributable to case growth, and added costs from companies acquired in the last 12 months. Delivery and warehouse compensation includes activity-based pay which will increase when our case volumes increase. Additionally, pay rates have been higher particularly in geographies where oil and gas exploration occurs. These increases were partially offset by reduced sales and information technology pay-related expenses. Our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to the increase in operating expenses. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily from assets that were not placed in service in fiscal 2012 that were in service in fiscal 2013, primarily from new facilities, property from new acquisitions and expansions. Fuel costs were $16.7 million higher in fiscal 2013 than in fiscal 2012. Assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2014, fuel costs exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to increase by approximately $5 million to $15 million as compared to fiscal 2013. Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements   

 30  

currently in place for fiscal 2014 and estimates of fuel consumption. Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. We continue to evaluate all opportunities to offset potential increases in fuel expense, including the use of fuel surcharges and overall expense management.   

 From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. In fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, we recorded provisions of $41.9 million and $21.9 million, respectively, related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals.   

 Our fiscal 2013 cost per case decreased by more than $0.03 per case as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily from reduced pay-related expenses from our sales and information technology areas, partially offset by increased costs from delivery and warehouse pay-related expenses, increased retirement-related expenses and fuel increases. We expect to continue to reduce our cost per case in fiscal 2014 by approximately $0.05 per case partially from reduced retirement-related expenses.  

 Operating income increased by 3.8% in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011. This increase was driven by gross profit dollars increasing more than operating expenses.  

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2012 primarily due to increased sales; however, gross profit dollars increased at a lower rate than sales. This decline in gross margin was primarily the result of product cost inflation and competitive pressures on pricing. Based on Broadline’s product sales mix for fiscal 2012, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the meat, canned and dry and frozen product categories. While we are generally able to pass through modest levels of inflation to our customers, we were unable pass through fully these higher levels of product cost inflation with the same gross margin in these product categories without negatively impacting our customers’ business and therefore our business.   

 In addition, gross profit dollars for fiscal 2012 increased as a result of higher fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges were approximately $39.1 million higher in fiscal 2012 than the prior year due to the application of fuel surcharges to a broader customer base during fiscal 2012 due to higher fuel prices incurred during these periods.   

 Operating expenses for the Broadline segment increased in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. The expense increases in fiscal 2012 were driven largely by an increase in pay-related expenses and fuel costs, partially offset by a favorable comparison in the provisions recorded for the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans in each fiscal year. Sales compensation includes commissions which are driven by gross profit dollars and case volumes, and delivery compensation includes activity-based pay which is driven by case volumes. Since these drivers are variable in nature, increased gross profit dollars and case volumes will increase sales and delivery compensation. Fuel costs were $26.5 million higher in fiscal 2012 than the prior year.   

 We recorded provisions related to the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans of $21.9 million in fiscal 2012 and $41.5 million in fiscal 2011.  

 In fiscal 2012, our Broadline companies cost per case increased approximately $0.04 per case as compared to fiscal 2011 primarily from increased pay-related expenses and higher fuel costs.   

 SYGMA Segment  

 SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations. SYGMA operations have traditionally had lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco’s other segments. This segment of the foodservice industry has generally been characterized by lower overall operating margins as the volume that these customers command allows them to negotiate for reduced margins. These operations service chain restaurants through contractual agreements that are typically structured on a fee per case delivered basis.   

 Sales  

 Sales were 0.8% greater in fiscal 2013 than in fiscal 2012. The increase was primarily due to product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, partially offset by case volume declines. Case volumes were challenged from low levels of growth from existing customers and from lost customers. While SYGMA has experienced some success in replacing lost business with new customers, it has not been enough to significantly overcome the factors noted above. We believe SYGMA’s sales growth prospects are better in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013.   

 Sales were 7.4% greater in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011. The increase in sales was primarily due to product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices.  Sales to new customers also contributed to the increase.  

 One chain restaurant customer (The Wendy’s Company) accounted for approximately 25% of the SYGMA segment sales for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2013. SYGMA maintains multiple regional contracts with varied expiration dates with this customer. While the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on SYGMA, we do not believe that the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on Sysco as a whole.   

 31  

 Operating Income  

 Operating income decreased by 14.7% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012. Gross profit dollars decreased 0.9% while operating expenses increased 1.2% in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. These gross profit results largely reflect the sluggish sales environment. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2013 largely due to increased delivery costs including pay-related expenses. Our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to the increase in pay-related expense.   

 Operating income decreased $1.2 million in 2012 from the prior year due to rising operating expenses. Gross profit dollars increased 4.3% while operating expenses increased 5.3% in fiscal 2012 from fiscal 2011. Contributing to the gross profit increase in fiscal 2012 were increased sales and an increase of approximately $8.3 million in the fuel surcharges charged to customers in fiscal 2012 from prior year due to higher fuel prices in fiscal 2012.  The increase in operating expenses for fiscal 2012 was largely driven by increased fuel costs. Fuel costs in fiscal 2012 were $11.3 million greater than the prior year. Assuming that fuel prices do not significantly rise above recent levels during fiscal 2013, we expect fuel costs and fuel surcharges for our SYGMA segment not to fluctuate significantly as compared to fiscal 2012.  

 Other Segment  

 “Other” financial information is attributable to our other operating segments, including our specialty produce and lodging industry products segments, a company that distributes specialty imported products and a company that distributes to international customers. These operating segments are discussed on an aggregate basis as they do not represent reportable segments under segment accounting literature.  

 On an aggregate basis, our “Other” segment has had a lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco’s Broadline segment. Sysco has acquired the operating companies within these segments in relatively recent years. These operations generally operate in a niche within the foodservice industry except for our lodging industry supply company. Each individual operation is also generally smaller in sales and scope than an average Broadline operation and each of these operating segments is considerably smaller in sales and overall scope than the Broadline segment. In fiscal 2013, in the aggregate, the “Other” segment represented approximately 6.2% of Sysco’s overall sales and 3.9% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses.   

 Operating income increased 8.3% for fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by earnings from our lodging industry products segment, our specialty import business, that was acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, and our company that distributes to international customers. All businesses in this segment experienced increased operating income which was partially offset by charges in our specialty produce companies which incurred facility closing costs of $2.6 million in fiscal 2013. An additional item partially offsetting the increase in operating income was an increase in retirement-related expense for these companies. Our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to increased expense at these companies.  

 Operating income decreased 9.2% for fiscal 2012 from fiscal 2011. The decrease in operating income was caused partially due to increased expenses in our specialty produce segment.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources   

 Highlights  

 Comparisons of the cash flows from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012:   

   ·    Cash flows from operations were $1.5 billion this year compared to $1.4 billion last year. 

   ·    Settlement payments to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were zero this year compared to $212.0 million last year. 

   ·    Capital expenditures totaled $511.9 million this year compared to $784.5 million last year. 

   ·    Free cash flow was $1.0 billion this year compared to $627.9 million last year (See Non-GAAP reconciliation below under the heading “Free Cash Flow.”) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·    Proceeds from exercises of share-based compensation awards was $628.7 million this year compared to $99.4 million last year. 

   ·    Treasury stock purchases were $721.6 million this year compared to $272.3 million last year. 

   ·    Dividends paid were $648.3 million this year compared to $622.9 million last year. 

 32  

 Sources and Uses of Cash  

 Sysco’s strategic objectives include continuous investment in our business; these investments are funded by a combination of cash from operations and access to capital from financial markets. Our operations historically have produced significant cash flow. Cash generated from operations is generally allocated to:  

   ·    working capital requirements;  

   ·    investments in facilities, systems, fleet, other equipment and technology;  

   ·    return of capital to shareholders, including cash dividends and share repurchases; 

   ·    acquisitions compatible with our overall growth strategy;  

   ·    contributions to our various retirement plans; and 

   ·    debt repayments. 

 Any remaining cash generated from operations may be invested in high-quality, short-term instruments. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses, and our overall capital structure. Any transactions resulting from these evaluations may materially impact our liquidity, borrowing capacity, leverage ratios and capital availability.   

 We continue to generate substantial cash flows from operations and remain in a strong financial position, however our liquidity and capital resources can be influenced by economic trends and conditions that impact our results of operations. Uncertain economic conditions and uneven levels of consumer confidence and the resulting pressure on consumer disposable income have lowered our sales growth and impacted our cash flows from operations. Competitive pressures in a low growth environment have also lowered our gross margins which in turn can cause our cash flows from operations to decrease. We believe our mechanisms to manage working capital, such as credit monitoring, optimizing inventory levels and maximizing payment terms with vendors, and our mechanisms to manage the items impacting our gross profits have been sufficient to limit a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. We believe these mechanisms will continue prevent a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. As of June 29, 2013, we had $412.3 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately 27% of which was held by our international subsidiaries generated from our earnings of international operations. If these earnings were transferred among countries or repatriated to the United States, such amounts may be subject to additional tax obligations; however, we do not currently anticipate the need to relocate this cash.  

 We believe the following sources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months, while maintaining sufficient liquidity for normal operating purposes:  

   ·    our cash flows from operations;  

   ·    the availability of additional capital under our existing commercial paper programs, supported by our revolving credit facility, and bank lines of credit;  

   ·    our ability to access capital from financial markets, including issuances of debt securities, either privately or under our shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  

 Due to our strong financial position, we believe that we will continue to be able to effectively access the commercial paper market and long-term capital markets, if necessary. We believe our cash flows from operations will improve over the long-term due to benefits from our Business Transformation Project and initiatives to improve our working capital management.  

 Cash Flows  

 Operating Activities  

 Fiscal 2013 vs. Fiscal 2012  

 We generated $1.5 billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013, as compared to $1.4 billion in fiscal 2012. The increase of $107.4 million or 7.6%, was largely attributable to a favorable comparison year-over-year on the settlement payments made to the IRS, an increase in non-cash depreciation and amortization expense and a favorable comparison for multiemployer and company-sponsored pension expense and contributions. These decreases were partially offset by a reduction in net earnings, the redemption of some of our COLI policies in fiscal 2012 and a reduction in taxes. Changes in working capital, including accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable, did not have a significant impact on the comparison of cash flow from operations from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012. These items are more fully described below.   

 In fiscal 2012, we paid $212 million in settlement payments to the IRS. We completed these settlement payments in fiscal 2012, which resulted in a favorable comparison in cash flow from operations related to this item in fiscal 2013. Excluding the IRS settlement payment comparison, the combined impact of changes in deferred taxes and changes in accrued income taxes was a decrease of $171.5 in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. This decrease resulted primarily from   

 33  

decreased tax expense of $107.4 million year over year and an increase in non-IRS tax payments of $59.6 million which were primarily foreign tax payments related to a one-time transaction as well as increased earnings in these jurisdictions.   

 The increase in non-cash depreciation and amortization expense of $95.6 million was primarily related to assets that were not in service in fiscal 2012 that were in service in fiscal 2013. These assets include our software related to our Business Transformation Project, which was placed into service in August 2012, as well as various new facilities and expansions. We do not anticipate that our depreciation and amortization expense will increase as much in fiscal 2014.  

 Multiemployer and company-sponsored pension expense and contributions resulted in a favorable comparison of $69.9 million in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. Provisions for multiemployer pension withdrawals increased $20.0 million in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012, and payments for withdrawals decreased $1.8 million. Company-sponsored pension contributions decreased $68.9 million year over year, which was partially offset by a decrease in company-sponsored pension expense of $20.8 million. We anticipate making a $40.7 million payment in the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2014 related to a fiscal 2013 multiemployer pension withdrawal.   

 The comparison of cash flow from operations from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012 was negatively impacted by an unfavorable change of $56.4 million in other assets. This unfavorable change resulted primarily from an increase in cash in the prior year from the redemption of approximately $75 million of our COLI policies. These COLI policies were maintained to meet a portion of our obligations under the SERP and were replaced by less volatile corporate-owned real estate assets as part of our plan to reduce the market-driven COLI impact on our earnings. There was no similar redemption in fiscal 2013. Other miscellaneous changes in other assets partially offset this decrease year over year.  

 Fiscal 2012 vs. Fiscal 2011  

 We generated $1.4 billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2012, as compared to $1.1 billion in fiscal 2011. The increase of $312.7 million between fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 was largely attributable to changes in working capital, a year-over-year reduction in tax payments and the redemption of some of our COLI policies. These increases were partially offset by the year-over-year impact of multiemployer withdrawal provisions and payments. These items are more fully described below.   

 Changes in working capital, specifically accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable, contributed $144.3 million to the increase in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.  Both periods were affected by increases in accounts receivable and inventory, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable resulting primarily from inflation-driven increases in product costs and sales. However, fiscal 2012 was impacted by these items to a lesser extent due primarily to working capital improvements within accounts receivable and inventory and also less growth in average daily sales in the final month of fiscal 2012 as compared to the same period in fiscal 2011.   

 Tax payments were $135.2 million less in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011. The decrease in tax payments was partially due to the company being in a prepaid position at the end of fiscal 2011 in certain jurisdictions. In addition, various movements in taxable temporary differences caused estimated taxable income to be lower in fiscal 2012, requiring less tax payments in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011. We made our final payments on a previous IRS tax settlement of $212 million in fiscal 2012.   

 We received approximately $75 million in cash from the one-time redemption during the period of some of our investments in COLI policies that we maintained to meet a portion of our obligations under the SERP. This resulted in a positive impact to cash flow from operations in fiscal 2012 by decreasing other assets by $57.1 million. Those redeemed COLI policies were replaced by less volatile existing corporate-owned real estate assets as part of our plan to reduce the market-driven COLI impact on our earnings.  

 Multiemployer withdrawal provisions and payments had a negative impact of $53.3 million on the comparison of cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012. The net impact of withdrawal provisions and payments was a cash outflow of $11.7 million in fiscal 2012, compared to a $41.5 million accrual in fiscal 2012.  

 Investing Activities  

 Fiscal 2013 capital expenditures included:  

   ·    fleet replacements;  

   ·    construction of a fold-out facility in southern California;  

   ·    replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; British Columbia, Canada; Boston, Massachusetts and Columbia, South Carolina; and 

   ·    investments in technology. 

 34  

 Fiscal 2012 capital expenditures included:  

   ·    replacement or significant expansion of facilities in San Diego, California; Boston, Massachusetts; Lincoln, Nebraska; Syracuse, New York and central Texas; 

   ·    construction of fold-out facilities in southern California and Long Island, New York;  

   ·    the continued remodeling of our shared services facility purchased in fiscal 2010; 

   ·    fleet replacements; and 

   ·    investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project. 

 Fiscal 2011 capital expenditures included:  

   ·    investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project; 

   ·    fleet replacements; 

   ·    replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and central Texas; 

   ·    the purchase of land for a fold-out facility in southern California; and 

   ·    the remodeling of our shared services facility purchased in fiscal 2010. 

 Capital expenditures in fiscal 2013 decreased by $272.6 million from fiscal 2012 primarily due to less investment in technology in fiscal 2013 related to our Business Transformation Project due to the initiation of the project’s deployment phase in August 2012. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 increased by $148.1 million over fiscal 2011 primarily due to a greater number of new facilities and expansion projects underway in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 for our Business Transformation Project were $20.0 million, $146.2 million and $195.8 million, respectively.   

  We expect total capital expenditures in fiscal 2014 to be in the range of $550 million to $600 million.  Fiscal 2014 expenditures will include facility, fleet and other equipment replacements and expansions; new facility construction, including fold-out facilities; and investments in technology.  

 During fiscal 2013, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $397.4 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2013 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2013, we acquired for cash foodservice operations in Nassau, Bahamas; San Francisco, California; San Jose, California; Stockton, California; Ontario, Canada; Quebec, Canada; Orlando, Florida; Dublin, Ireland; St. Cloud, Minnesota; Co. Down, Northern Ireland; Greenville, Ohio and Houston, Texas.   

 During fiscal 2012, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $110.6 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2012 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2012, we acquired for cash broadline foodservice operations in Sacramento, California; Quebec, Canada; New Haven, Connecticut; Grand Rapids, Michigan; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Columbia, South Carolina and Spokane, Washington.  In addition, Sysco acquired for cash a company that distributes specialty imported products headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.   

 During fiscal 2011, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $101.1 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2011 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2011, we acquired for cash broadline foodservice operations in central California; Los Angeles, California; Ontario, Canada; Lincoln, Nebraska; and Trenton, New Jersey.  

 Free Cash Flow  

 Free cash flow represents net cash provided from operating activities less purchases of plant and equipment plus proceeds from sales of plant and equipment. Sysco considers free cash flow to be a non-GAAP liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of buildings, fleet, equipment and technology, which may potentially be used to pay for, among other things, strategic uses of cash including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions. We do not mean to imply that free cash flow is necessarily available for discretionary expenditures, however, as it may be necessary that we use it to make mandatory debt service or other payments. As a result of reduced capital spending and increased cash provided by operating activities, free cash flow for fiscal 2013 increased 61.7%, or $387.4 million, to $1.0 billion as compared to fiscal 2012. Increased cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by increased capital spending, resulted in free cash flow for fiscal 2012 increasing 32.4%, or $153.7 million, to $627.9 million as compared to fiscal 2011. We expect the growth rate in free cash flow for fiscal 2014 will not be as significant as the growth rate experienced in fiscal 2013.   

 35  

 Free cash flow should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company’s liquidity for the periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. In the tables that follow, free cash flow for each period presented is reconciled to net cash provided by operating activities.   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Financing Activities  

 Equity Transactions  

 Proceeds from exercises of share-based compensation awards were $628.7 million in fiscal 2013, $99.4 million in fiscal 2012 and $332.7 million in fiscal 2011. The higher level of proceeds in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2011 was due to an increase in the number of options exercised in these years, as compared to fiscal 2012. The level of option exercises, and thus proceeds, will vary from period to period and is largely dependent on movements in our stock price.  

 We traditionally have engaged in Board-approved share repurchase programs.  The number of shares acquired and their cost during the past three fiscal years were 21,672,403 shares for $721.6 million in fiscal 2013, 10,000,000 shares for $272.3 million in fiscal 2012 and 10,000,000 shares for $291.6 million in fiscal 2011. There were 275,000 additional shares repurchased through August 14, 2013, resulting in a remaining authorization by our Board of Directors to repurchase up to 1,214,197 shares, based on the trades made through that date. Our share repurchase strategy is to purchase enough shares to keep our average shares outstanding relatively constant over time. Due to a high level of stock option exercises in fiscal 2013, more shares were repurchased to meet this strategy. The number of shares we repurchase in fiscal 2014 will be dependent on the level of stock option exercises; however, we believe that share repurchases will be significantly less than the amount repurchased in fiscal 2013 because fewer options are now available for exercise than in fiscal 2013.  

 We have made dividend payments to our shareholders in each fiscal year since our company inception over 40 years ago. We target a dividend payout of 40% to 50% of net earnings. We paid in excess of that range in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 primarily due to increased expenses from our Business Transformation Project. We believe as we realize benefits from this project, our dividend payout will return to this targeted range. Dividends paid were $648.3 million, or $1.10 per share, in fiscal 2013, $622.9 million, or $1.06 per share, in fiscal 2012 and $597.1 million, or $1.02 per share, in fiscal 2011.  In May 2013, we declared our regular quarterly dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 of $0.28 per share, which was paid in July 2013.   

 In November 2000, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement covering 30,000,000 shares of common stock to be offered from time to time in connection with acquisitions.  As of August 14, 2013, 29,477,835 shares remained available for issuance under this registration statement.  

 Debt Activity and Borrowing Availability  

 Short-term Borrowings   

 We have uncommitted bank lines of credit, which provided for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $95.0 million, of which none was outstanding as of June 29, 2013. Outstanding borrowings under this facility were $4.0 million as of August 14, 2013.  

 In September 2012, the company’s Irish subsidiary, Pallas Foods, entered into a €75.0 million (Euro) multicurrency revolving credit facility, which will be utilized for capital needs for the company’s European subsidiaries. This facility replaces the subsidiary’s   

 36  

previous €10.0 million (Euro) committed facility for unsecured borrowings. The new facility provides for unsecured borrowings and expires September 25, 2013, but is subject to extension. Outstanding borrowings under this facility were €32.0 million (Euro) as of June 29, 2013, located within Notes payable on the consolidated balance sheet. Outstanding borrowings under this facility were €32.0 million (Euro) as of August 14, 2013.  

 On June 30, 2011, a Canadian subsidiary of Sysco entered into a short-term demand loan facility for the purpose of facilitating a distribution from the Canadian subsidiary to Sysco, and Sysco concurrently entered into an agreement with the bank to guarantee the loan. The amount borrowed was $182.0 million and was repaid in full on July 4, 2011.  

 Commercial Paper and Revolving Credit Facility  

 We have a Board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billion.   

 In December 2011, we terminated our previously existing revolving credit facility that supported the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs. At the same time, Sysco and one of its subsidiaries, Sysco International, ULC, entered into a new $1.0 billion credit facility supporting the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs. This facility provides for borrowings in both U.S. and Canadian dollars. Borrowings by Sysco International, ULC under the credit agreement are guaranteed by Sysco, and borrowings by Sysco and Sysco International, ULC under the credit agreement are guaranteed by all the wholly-owned subsidiaries of Sysco that are guarantors of the company’s senior notes and debentures. The original facility in the amount of $1.0 billion expires on December 29, 2016. In December 2012, a portion of the facility was extended for an additional year. This extended facility, which expires on December 29, 2017, is for $925.0 million of the original $1.0 billion facility, but is subject to further extension.   

 As of June 29, 2013, commercial paper issuances outstanding were $95.5 million. As of August 14, 2013, commercial paper issuances outstanding were $76.0 million. During fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, aggregate outstanding commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings ranged from approximately zero to $330.0 million, zero to $563.1 million, and zero to $330.3 million, respectively.  During fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, our aggregate commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings had a weighted average interest rate of 0.16%, 0.16% and 0.25%, respectively.  

 Fixed Rate Debt  

 Included in current maturities of long-term debt as of June 29, 2013 are the 4.6% senior notes totaling $200.0 million, which mature in March 2014. It is our intention to fund the repayment of these notes at maturity through cash on hand, cash flow from operations, issuances of commercial paper, senior notes or a combination thereof.   

 In February 2012, we filed with the SEC an automatically effective well-known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and guarantees of debt securities that may be issued from time to time.  

 In June 2012, we repaid the 6.1% senior notes totaling $200.0 million at maturity utilizing a combination of cash flow from operations and commercial paper issuances.  

 In May 2012, we entered into an agreement with a notional amount of $200.0 million to lock in a component of the interest rate on our then forecasted debt offering. We designated this derivative as a cash flow hedge of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on a portion of the then forecasted June 2012 debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. In June 2012, in conjunction with the issuance of the $450.0 million senior notes maturing in fiscal 2022, we settled the treasury lock, locking in the effective yields on the related debt. Upon settlement, we received cash of $0.7 million, which represented the fair value of the swap agreement at the time of settlement. This amount is being amortized as an offset to interest expense over the 10-year term of the debt, and the unamortized balance is reflected as a gain, net of tax, Accumulated other comprehensive loss.  

 In June 2012, we issued 0.55% senior notes totaling $300.0 million due June 12, 2015 (the 2015 notes) and 2.6% senior notes totaling $450.0 million due June 12, 2022 (the 2022 notes) under its February 2012 shelf registration. The 2015 and 2022 notes, which were priced at 99.319% and 98.722% of par, respectively, are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and include a redemption provision which allows Sysco to retire the notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the note holders are not penalized by early redemption. Proceeds from the notes will be utilized over a period of time for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions, refinancing of debt, working capital, share repurchases and capital expenditures.  

 In February 2013, we repaid the 4.2% senior notes totaling $250.0 million at maturity utilizing a combination of cash flow from operations and cash on hand.  

 37  

In August 2013, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $500 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2018 to floating rate debt. This transaction was entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and was designated as a fair value hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates.   

 Total Debt  

 Total debt as of June 29, 2013 was $3.0 billion of which approximately 88% was at fixed rates with a weighted average of 4.7% and an average life of 13 years, and the remainder was at floating rates with a weighted average of 1.4% and an average life of one year.  Certain loan agreements contain typical debt covenants to protect note holders, including provisions to maintain the company’s long-term debt to total capital ratio below a specified level. We are currently in compliance with all debt covenants.  

 Other  

 As part of normal business activities, we issue letters of credit through major banking institutions as required by certain vendor and insurance agreements.  In addition, in connection with our audits in certain tax jurisdictions, we have posted of letters of credit in order to proceed to the appeals process. As of June 29, 2013, letters of credit outstanding were $42.2 million.  

 Other Considerations - Multiemployer Pension Plans  

 As discussed in Note 14, “Multiemployer Employee Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees.   

 Under certain circumstances, including our voluntary withdrawal or a mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from certain underfunded plans, we would be required to make payments to the plans for our proportionate share of the multiemployer plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. We believe that one of the above-mentioned events is reasonably possible with certain plans in which we participate and estimate our share of withdrawal liability for these plans could have been as much as $80.0 million as of June 29, 2013 and as much as $90.0 million as of August 14, 2013, based on the latest available information available as of each date. This estimate excludes plans for which we have recorded withdrawal liabilities or where the likelihood of the above-mentioned events is deemed remote. Due to the lack of current information, we believe our current share of the withdrawal liability could materially differ from this estimate.   

 Required contributions to multiemployer plans could increase in the future as these plans strive to improve their funding levels. In addition, pension-related legislation in the United States requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. We believe that any unforeseen requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability and excise taxes would be funded through cash flow from operations, borrowing capacity or a combination of these items.   

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.  

 38  

 Contractual Obligations   

 The following table sets forth, as of June 29, 2013, certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make contractual future payments:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)The estimate of the timing of future payments under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan involves the use of certain assumptions, including retirement ages and payout periods.   

 (2)Includes estimated contributions to the unfunded SERP and other postretirement benefit plans made in amounts needed to fund benefit payments for vested participants in these plans through fiscal 2023, based on actuarial assumptions.  

 (3)Represents voluntary withdrawal liabilities recorded and excludes normal contributions required under our collective bargaining agreements.  

  (4) Unrecognized tax benefits relate to uncertain tax positions recorded under accounting standards related to uncertain tax positions. As of June 29, 2013, we had a liability of $108.3 million for unrecognized tax benefits for all tax jurisdictions and $36.8 million for related interest that could result in cash payment. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of non-current payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time. Accordingly, the related non-current balances have not been reflected in the "Payments Due by Period" section of the table.   

 (5)Includes payments on floating rate debt based on rates as of June 29, 2013, assuming amount remains unchanged until maturity, and payments on fixed rate debt based on maturity dates. The impact of our outstanding fixed-to-floating interest rate swap on the fixed rate debt interest payments is included as well based on the floating rates in effect as of June 29, 2013.  

 (6) Provides the estimated minimum contribution to the Retirement Plan through fiscal 2023 to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements under the assumption that we only make minimum funding requirement contributions each year, based on actuarial assumptions.   

 (7)For purposes of this table, purchase obligations include agreements for purchases of product in the normal course of business, for which all significant terms have been confirmed, including minimum quantities resulting from our sourcing initiative.  Such amounts included in the table above are based on estimates.  Purchase obligations also includes amounts committed with various third party service providers to provide information technology services for period up to fiscal 2016 (See discussion under Note 20, “Commitments and Contingencies”, to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8), fixed electricity agreements and fixed fuel purchase commitments.  Purchase obligations exclude full requirements electricity contracts where no stated minimum purchase volume is required.  

 Certain acquisitions involve contingent consideration, typically payable only in the event that certain operating results are attained or certain outstanding contingencies are resolved.  Aggregate contingent consideration amounts outstanding as of June 29, 2013 were $108.0 million.  This amount is not included in the table above.  

 39  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses in the accompanying financial statements. Significant accounting policies employed by Sysco are presented in the notes to the financial statements.  

 Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations.  These policies require our most subjective or complex judgments, often employing the use of estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.  We have reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors the development and selection of the critical accounting policies and estimates and this related disclosure.  Our most critical accounting policies and estimates pertain to the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, self-insurance programs, company-sponsored pension plans, income taxes, vendor consideration, goodwill and intangible assets and share-based compensation.  

 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

 We evaluate the collectability of accounts receivable and determine the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts based on a combination of factors.  We utilize specific criteria to determine uncollectible receivables to be written off, including whether a customer has filed for or has been placed in bankruptcy, has had accounts referred to outside parties for collection or has had accounts past due over specified periods.  Allowances are recorded for all other receivables based on analysis of historical trends of write-offs and recoveries.  In addition, in circumstances where we are aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligation, a specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to reduce the receivable to the net amount reasonably expected to be collected.  Our judgment is required as to the impact of certain of these items and other factors as to ultimate realization of our accounts receivable. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, additional allowances may be required.  

 Self-Insurance Program  

 We maintain a self-insurance program covering portions of workers’ compensation, general liability and vehicle liability costs.  The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers.  We also maintain a fully self-insured group medical program. Liabilities associated with these risks are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, medical cost trends, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.  Projections of future loss expenses are inherently uncertain because of the random nature of insurance claims occurrences and could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends.  In an attempt to mitigate the risks of workers’ compensation, vehicle and general liability claims, safety procedures and awareness programs have been implemented.  

 Company-Sponsored Pension Plans  

 Amounts related to defined benefit plans recognized in the financial statements are determined on an actuarial basis.  Two of the more critical assumptions in the actuarial calculations are the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits and the expected rate of return on plan assets. Our Retirement Plan was frozen in fiscal 2013 and is only open to a small number of employees. Our SERP was frozen in fiscal 2013. Due to these plan freezes, our assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation is no longer a critical assumption.   

 For guidance in determining the discount rates, we calculate the implied rate of return on a hypothetical portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximates the estimated payouts of the pension plan.  The discount rate assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.  The discount rate for determining fiscal 2013 net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the June 30, 2012 measurement date, decreased 113 basis points to 4.81%.  The discount rate for determining fiscal 2013 net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the June 30, 2012 measurement date, decreased 104 basis points to 4.89%.  The SERP was remeasured during fiscal 2013 upon approval to freeze the plan. The remeasured discount rate was 3.96%. The combined effect of these discount rate changes increased our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2013 by an estimated $87.7 million.  The discount rate for determining fiscal 2014 net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the June 29, 2013 measurement date, increased 51 basis points to 5.32%.  The discount rate for determining fiscal 2014 net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the June 29, 2013 measurement date, increased 98 basis points to 4.94%, as compared to the discount rate upon the remeasurement of the plan during fiscal 2013.  The combined effect of these discount rate changes will decrease our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2014 by an estimated $5.0 million. A 100 basis point increase (or decrease) in the discount rates for fiscal 2014 would decrease (or increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension cost by $10.1 million. Now that Sysco’s pension plans are frozen, net company-sponsored pension cost is not as sensitive to discount rate changes as compared to when these plans were active.    

 The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan was 7.75% for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. The expectations of future returns are derived from a mathematical asset model that incorporates assumptions as to the various asset class returns, reflecting a combination of historical performance analysis and the forward-looking views of the financial markets regarding the yield on bonds, historical returns of the major stock markets and returns on alternative investments.  Although not determinative of future returns, the effective annual rate of return on plan assets, developed using geometric/compound averaging, was approximately   

 40  

7.4%, 7.4%, 2.8%, and 15.4%, over the 20-year, 10-year, 5-year and 1-year periods ended December 31, 2012, respectively.  In addition, in eight of the last 15 years, the actual return on plan assets has exceeded 10%.  The rate of return assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.  

 The expected return on plan assets impacts the recorded amount of net pension costs.  The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan is 7.75% for fiscal 2014.  A 100 basis point increase (decrease) in the assumed rate of return for fiscal 2014 would decrease (increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension costs for fiscal 2014 by approximately $24.9 million.  

 Pension accounting standards require the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans in the statement of financial position, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of June 29, 2013 was a charge, net of tax, of $575.2 million. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of June 30, 2012 was a charge, net of tax, of $823.9 million.  

 We made cash contributions to our company-sponsored pension plans of $93.6 million and $162.4 million in fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively. The $70.0 million contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2013 was voluntary, as there was no minimum required contribution for the calendar 2012 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements. The $140.0 million contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2012 exceeded the minimum required contribution for the calendar 2011 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements. There are no required contributions to the Retirement Plan to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements in fiscal 2014. The estimated fiscal 2014 contributions to fund benefit payments for the SERP plan are approximately $26 million.  

 Income Taxes  

 The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.  Our provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state, as well as foreign jurisdictions.  Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items, accruals or adjustments of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits or valuation allowances, and our change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate.  

 Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. We believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable; however, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or pay amounts in excess of recorded liabilities, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected.  An unfavorable tax settlement generally would require use of our cash and may result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution.  A favorable tax settlement may be recognized as a reduction in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution.  

 Vendor Consideration   

 We recognize consideration received from vendors when the services performed in connection with the monies received are completed and when the related product has been sold by Sysco.  There are several types of cash consideration received from vendors.  In many instances, the vendor consideration is in the form of a specified amount per case or per pound.  In these instances, we will recognize the vendor consideration as a reduction of cost of sales when the product is sold.  In some instances, vendor consideration is received upon receipt of inventory in our distribution facilities. We estimate the amount needed to reduce our inventory based on inventory turns until the product is sold. Our inventory turnover is usually less than one month; therefore, amounts deferred against inventory do not require long-term estimation. In the situations where the vendor consideration is not related directly to specific product purchases, we will recognize these as a reduction of cost of sales when the earnings process is complete, the related service is performed and the amounts realized. Historically, adjustments to our estimates related to vendor consideration have not been significant.    

 Goodwill and Intangible Assets  

 Goodwill and intangible assets represent the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired. Certain assumptions and estimates are employed in determining the fair value of assets acquired, including goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as determining the allocation of goodwill to the appropriate reporting unit.   

 In addition, annually in our fourth quarter or more frequently as needed, we assess the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles by determining whether the fair values of the applicable reporting units exceed the carrying values of these assets. The reporting units used in assessing goodwill impairment are our ten operating segments as described in Note 21, “Business Segment Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The components within each of our ten operating segments have similar economic characteristics and therefore are aggregated into ten reporting units.   

 41  

We arrive at our estimates of fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow and earnings multiple models.  The results from each of these models are then weighted and combined into a single estimate of fair value for each of our ten operating segments.  We use a 60% weighting for our discounted cash flow valuation and 40% for the earnings multiple models giving greater emphasis to our discounted cash flow model because the forecasted operating results that serve as a basis for the analysis incorporate management’s outlook and anticipated changes for the businesses consistent with a market participant.  The primary assumptions used in these various models include estimated earnings multiples of comparable acquisitions in the industry including control premiums, earnings multiples on acquisitions completed by Sysco in the past, future cash flow estimates of the reporting units, which are dependent on internal forecasts and projected growth rates, and weighted average cost of capital, along with working capital and capital expenditure requirements. When possible, we use observable market inputs in our models to arrive at the fair values of our reporting units. We update our projections used in our discounted cash flow model based on historical performance and changing business conditions for each of our reporting units.   

 Our estimates of fair value contain uncertainties requiring management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. Actual results could differ from these assumptions and projections, resulting in the company revising its assumptions and, if required, recognizing an impairment loss.  There were no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles recorded as a result of assessment in fiscal 2013, 2012 or 2011. Our past estimates of fair value for fiscal 2012 and 2011 have not been materially different when revised to include subsequent years’ actual results. Sysco has not made any material changes in its impairment assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe the estimates used in the analysis are reasonably likely to change materially in the future but we will continue to assess the estimates in the future based on the expectations of the reporting units. In the fiscal 2013 analysis our estimates of fair value did not require additional analysis; however, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for the following reporting units if our estimates of fair value were decreased by the following amounts. First, our specialty produce operations would have required additional analysis if the estimated fair value had been 30% lower.  Second, our European Broadline company would have required additional analysis if the estimated fair value had been 37% lower. As of June 29, 2013, these two reporting units had goodwill aggregating $381.0 million. For the remainder of our reporting units, which as of June 29, 2013 had goodwill aggregating $1.5 billion, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for a reporting unit if the estimated fair value for any of these reporting units had declined by greater than 48%.   

 Certain reporting units (Caribbean Broadline, European Broadline, specialty produce, custom-cut meat, lodging industry products, imported specialty products and international distribution operations) have a greater proportion of goodwill recorded to estimated fair value as compared to the United States Broadline, Canadian Broadline or SYGMA reporting units. This is primarily due to these businesses having been more recently acquired, and as a result there has been less history of organic growth than in the United States Broadline, Canadian Broadline and SYGMA reporting units. In addition, these businesses also have lower levels of cash flow than the United States Broadline reporting unit. As such, these reporting units have a greater risk of future impairment if their operations were to suffer a significant downturn.   

 Share-Based Compensation  

 We provide compensation benefits to employees and non-employee directors under several share-based payment arrangements including various employee stock incentive plans, the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan, the Management Incentive Plan and various non-employee director plans.  

 As of June 29, 2013, there was $69.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements.  That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.41 years.  

 The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.  Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of Sysco’s stock, implied volatilities from traded options on Sysco’s stock and other factors.  We utilize historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model; separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes.  Expected dividend yield is estimated based on the historical pattern of dividends and the average stock price for the year preceding the option grant.  The risk-free rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.  

 The fair value of each restricted stock unit award granted with a dividend equivalent is based on the company’s stock price as of the date of grant. For restricted stock units granted without dividend equivalents, the fair value is reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period.  

 The fair value of the stock issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan is calculated as the difference between the stock price and the employee purchase price.   

 The fair value of restricted stock granted to employees is based on the stock price on grant date. The application of a discount to the fair value of a restricted stock grant is dependent upon whether or not each individual grant contains a post-vesting restriction.   

 42  

The compensation cost related to these share-based awards is recognized over the requisite service period.  The requisite service period is generally the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The compensation cost related to stock issuances resulting from employee purchases of stock under the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan is recognized during the quarter in which the employee payroll withholdings are made.  

 Our share-based awards are generally subject to graded vesting over a service period.  We will recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.   

 In addition, certain of our share-based awards provide that the awards continue to vest as if the award holder continued to be an employee or director if the award holder meets certain age and years of service thresholds upon retirement.  In these cases, we will recognize compensation cost for such awards over the period from the grant date to the date the employee or director first becomes eligible to retire with the options continuing to vest after retirement.   

 Our option grants include options that qualify as incentive stock options for income tax purposes.  In the period the compensation cost related to incentive stock options is recorded, a corresponding tax benefit is not recorded as it is assumed that we will not receive a tax deduction related to such incentive stock options.  We may be eligible for tax deductions in subsequent periods to the extent that there is a disqualifying disposition of the incentive stock option.  In such cases, we would record a tax benefit related to the tax deduction in an amount not to exceed the corresponding cumulative compensation cost recorded in the financial statements on the particular options multiplied by the statutory tax rate.   

 Forward-Looking Statements  

 Certain statements made herein that look forward in time or express management’s expectations or beliefs with respect to the occurrence of future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  They include statements about Sysco’s ability to increase its sales and market share and grow earnings, expectations regarding pricing and margin pressure, cost per case reductions and sales case growth, the continuing impact of economic conditions on consumer confidence and our business, sales and expense trends, including without limitation, expectations regarding defined contribution plan costs and pension costs, anticipated multiemployer pension related liabilities and contributions to various multiemployer pension plans, expectations regarding potential payments of unrecognized tax benefits and interest, expectations regarding share repurchases, dividend payments, expected trends in fuel pricing, usage costs and surcharges, our expectation regarding the provision for losses on accounts receivable, expected implementation, costs and benefits of the ERP system, estimated expenses and capital expenditures related to our Business Transformation Project, beliefs regarding future ERP conversions at our operating companies, expectations regarding our other Business Transformation initiatives including cost transformation and product cost reduction and category management initiatives, beliefs regarding the timeline for the realization of benefits from each of our initiatives within our Business Transformation Project, expectation regarding the number of long-term contracts increasing as we progress with our category management initiative, our plan to continue to explore and identify opportunities to grow in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core foodservice distribution business, expectations regarding future acquisitions and the contributions of acquisitions to our business and future revenues, SYGMA’s growth prospects in fiscal 2014, the loss of SYGMA’s largest customer not having a material adverse effect on Sysco as a whole, compliance with laws and government regulations not having a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, anticipated acquisitions and capital expenditures and the sources of financing for them, continued competitive advantages and positive results from strategic initiatives, expectations that depreciation and amortization expense will increase at a lower rate in fiscal 2014 than the rate in fiscal 2013, expectations that depreciation and amortization expense will increase at a lower rate in fiscal 2014 than the rate in fiscal 2013, anticipated company-sponsored pension plan liabilities, our expectations regarding cash flow from operations, our intentions regarding the repayment of debt, the impact of initiatives to improve working capital, the availability and adequacy of insurance to cover liabilities, predictions regarding the impact of changes in estimates used in impairment analyses, the anticipated impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and Sysco’s ability to meet future cash requirements.  

 These statements are based on management’s current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially due in part to the risk factors discussed at Item 1.A. in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere.  In addition, the success of Sysco’s strategic initiatives could be affected by conditions in the economy and the industry and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses, including fuel costs.  Expected trends related to fuel costs and usage are impacted by fluctuations in the economy generally and numerous factors affecting the oil industry that are beyond our control. Our efforts to lower our cost of goods sold may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including actions by our competitors and/or customers. We have experienced delays in the implementation of our Business Transformation Project and the expected costs of our Business Transformation Project may be greater or less than currently expected, as we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages, or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation process. As implementation of the ERP system and other initiatives within the Business Transformation Project begins, there may be changes in design or timing that impact near-term expense and cause us to revise the project calendar and budget, and additional hiring and training of employees and consultants may be required, which could also impact project expense and timing. Our Business Transformation Project initiatives related to ERP implementation, cost transformation and produce cost reduction may not provide the expected benefits or cost savings in a timely fashion, if at all. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost   

 43  

disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. Defined contribution plan costs are impacted by the number of employees participating in the plan and the level of contributions made by each employee. Company-sponsored pension plan liabilities are impacted by a number of factors including the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits, the assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation levels and the expected rate of return on plan assets. The amount of shares repurchased in a given period is subject to a number of factors, including available cash and our general working capital needs at the time. Meeting our dividend target objectives depends on our level of earnings. Our plans with respect to growth in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business are subject to the company’s other strategic initiatives and plans and economic conditions generally. Legal proceedings are impacted by events, circumstances and individuals beyond the control of Sysco. The need for additional borrowing or other capital is impacted by factors that include capital expenditures or acquisitions in excess of those currently anticipated, stock repurchases at historical levels, or other unexpected cash requirements. Plans regarding the repayment of debt are subject to change at any time based on management’s assessment of the overall needs of the company. The anticipated impact of compliance with laws and regulations also involves the risk that estimates may turn out to be materially incorrect, and laws and regulations, as well as methods of enforcement, are subject to change.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk