Item 1A. Risk Factors  

 The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. These factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified on page 43 and from historical trends.   

 Industry and General Economic Risks  

 Periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability   

 Volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. Periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. In addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may negatively impact our business due to the timing needed to pass on such increases, as well as the impact it may have on discretionary spending by consumers. Conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant.   

 Our results and financial condition are directly affected by the volatility in the global economic environment, local market conditions and low consumer confidence, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income  

 The foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and is especially susceptible to trends and uncertainty in economic activity, such as the general economic slowdown in the US from 2008 to 2011. The global economic environment has recently been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and volatility in financial markets worldwide. In addition, our results of operations are substantially affected by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. The difficult economic conditions can affect us in the following ways:  

   ·    Unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market.  

   ·    Food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases which could negatively impact our business by reduced demand for our products.  

   ·    Heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending and can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers. 

   ·    Liquidity issues and the inability of our customers, vendors and suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. 

 5  

The uncertainty in the global economic environment has adversely affected both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity.    

 Competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers, and makes it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability   

 The foodservice distribution industry is highly competitive, with numerous regional and local competitors, and is a mature industry characterized by slowing revenue growth. Additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), group purchasing organizations or consolidation among competitors have served to further increase pressure on the industry’s profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and profitability. New and increased competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting. Such competition may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers.   

 Although our sales historically have grown faster than the market, in recent years we have experienced slowing revenue growth rates. These trends have placed pressure on our profit margins and made it more difficult to achieve growth and pass along cost increases. We expect these trends to continue for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our market share, sales and profitability, through increased expenditures or decreased prices, could be adversely impacted.   

 We may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and forward purchase commitments intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs   

 The price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. On average, on-highway diesel fuel prices increased approximately 2% and 14% in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively, as compared to the prior year. Volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. The cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. Although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we can do so again if another period of high fuel costs occurs. If fuel costs increase again in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current market price for diesel. If fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases may prove ineffective and result in our paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel.   

 Business and Operational Risks  

 Our ability to meet our long-term strategic objectives to grow the profitability of our business depends largely on the success of the Business Transformation Project  

 Our multi-year Business Transformation Project consists of:  

   ·    the design and deployment of an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations;  

   ·    an operating cost transformation initiative to lower our cost structure;  

   ·    a product cost reduction and category management initiative to use market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment; and 

   ·    several other initiatives.  

 Although we expect the investment in the Business Transformation Project to provide meaningful benefits to the company over the long-term, the costs exceeded the benefits during the testing stages of implementation of ERP, including in fiscal 2013. Successfully managing deployment is critical to our business success. While we expect all of the components of the Business Transformation Project to enhance our value proposition to customers and suppliers and improve our long-term profitability, there can be no assurance that we will realize our expectations within the time frame we have established, if at all.  

 The actual cost of the ERP system may be greater or less than currently expected and continued delays in the execution of deployment may adversely affect our business and results of operations  

 ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. Our cost estimates related to our ERP system are based on assumptions which are subject to wide variability, require a great deal of judgment, and are inherently uncertain. Thus, the actual costs of the project in fiscal 2014 (and beyond) may be greater or less than currently expected. We have encountered, and we may continue to encounter,   

 6  

the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including incurring expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated. For example, we deployed our ERP system to three additional locations in fiscal 2013 and are experiencing improved functionality in many areas compared to past deployments; however, while the majority of the system functionality is performing as designed, we have identified areas of improvement to certain components of the system that we want to address before we continue deploying to additional locations.   

 In addition, implementation of the systems require significant management attention and resources over an extended period of time and any significant design errors or further delay in the implementation of the systems could materially and adversely affect our operating results and impact our ability to manage our business. Continued delays in deployment, additional operating problems discovered in the underlying information technology systems’ processes, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation process adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, because the implementation is expected to continue to involve a significant financial commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may also be adversely affected if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to realize the intended results of the system software and implementation activities. We expect costs to continue to outweigh benefits for fiscal 2014 as we continue deployment.  

 We may not realize anticipated benefits from our operating cost reduction efforts   

 We have implemented a number of cost reduction initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. Our future success and earnings growth depend upon our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and reduced profitability. A variety of factors could cause us not to realize some of the expected cost savings, including, among other things, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings initiatives, lack of sustainability in cost savings over time and unexpected costs associated with operating our business. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease.  Furthermore, even if we realize the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction efforts, we may experience an adverse impact on our employees and customers which could negatively affect our sales and profits.  

 We may not realize the full anticipated benefits from our category management initiative  

 We are in the midst of deploying our category management initiative which encompasses a rigorous process whereby we use market data and customer insights to optimize the product assortment available to our customers, strengthen strategic relationships with our suppliers, and increase our sales and profit margins. If our sales associates are not able to effectively gain acceptance of the new product assortment from our customers, or we and our suppliers are not able to absorb the significant administrative and process changes required, then we may not be able to successfully execute the category management initiative in the timeline we anticipate and we may not capture the financial and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate, or at all. Furthermore, even if we realize the anticipated benefits of our category management initiative, we may experience an adverse impact on our employees and customers which could negatively affect our sales and profits.  

 Conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs   

 We obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. For the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us, however we believe the number of long-term contracts will increase as we progress with our category management initiative. Although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. We are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. These conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop conditions, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). Further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. Input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors.  

 Adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings   

 Maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling Sysco Brand products. The Sysco brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. Anything that damages our reputation or the public’s confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our   

 7  

products or relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand, and could quickly affect our revenues and profits.   

 Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public’s confidence in our products. If patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the use of Sysco products), or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically.   

 Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. This reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. Our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of Internet-based communications. Adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers’ confidence and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Any of these events could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.  

 If sales to our independent restaurant customers continue to grow at a lower rate than sales to our large regional and national customers, our operating income may decline  

 Similar to industry trends, we are currently growing our large regional and national customers sales at a faster rate than our sales to independent restaurant locations. Gross margin from our large regional and national customers is generally lower than that of our independent restaurant customers because we typically provide a higher level of services to these customers and are able to earn a higher gross margin as a result. If sales to our independent restaurant customers do not grow at the same or a greater rate as sales to our large regional and national customers, unless we are able to successfully increase prices or reduce our cost structure, our operating income may decline.   

 As we grow sales to large regional and national customers at a faster pace than we grow sales to independent restaurant customers, we face the risk that large regional and national customers will increase their proportion of our total sales, thus subjecting us to greater risk if we lose one or more of these customers and possibly enabling these larger customers to exert greater pressure on us to reduce our prices  

 If sales to our large regional and national customers continues to increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our independent restaurant customers, we may become more dependent on large regional and national customers as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales, and any loss of sales to these customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, we could be pressured by them to lower our prices. In that event, we would need to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions or our gross margins and profitability would be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment.  

 Expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful   

 In addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations.   

 Another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. Our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. Risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets.  

 8  

 If we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business   

 We are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. From time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. We also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. While we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot represent that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. We have received notice from the State of California and certain county district attorneys alleging violations of statutes related to the use of drop sites, which are temporary facilities for holding products prior to distributing them to customers. We are fully cooperating with these parties in their investigations. We have discontinued the use of drop sites across the enterprise. While we believe we have mitigated the risk, we may face fines and penalties.   

 If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures or debarments from contracting with the government. The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations.   

 Product liability claims could materially impact our business  

 We, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by Sysco causes injury or illness. We cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. With respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. However, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If Sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share.   

 We must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively  

 Historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely impacted. Integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from Sysco’s. A significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. Significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments.   

 We need access to borrowed funds in order to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on cash flow and liquidity  

 A substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. We anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. As a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. Moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock.  

 9  

 Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position  

 As of June 29, 2013, we had approximately $3 billion of total indebtedness. We have a Board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billion; a revolving credit facility supporting our U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs in the amount of $1.0 billion set to expire on December 29, 2016, with $925 million extended to December 29, 2017; certain uncommitted bank lines of credit providing for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $95.0 million; and a €75.0 million (Euro) multicurrency revolving credit facility for use by our Irish subsidiary set to expire September 25, 2013, which is subject to extension. Our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions or joint ventures. Our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of capital and financial results. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  

 We rely on technology in our business and any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could have a material negative impact on our business  

  Our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. We use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. Any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs and lower profits.   

 Furthermore, process changes will be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement the ERP system. While Sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits.   

 We may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans  

  We contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. Approximately 10% of our current employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. In fiscal 2013, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $66 million, which included payments for withdrawal liabilities of $32 million. The costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit. Based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. The unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. Underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. Our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. Based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $220 million as of June 29, 2013. A significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

 Our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines  

 At the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) as of December 31, 2012 for all U.S.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. Effective January 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. While these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $2.7 billion as of June 29, 2013 therefore financial market factors could impact our funding requirements. Although recent pension funding relief legislation has served to defer some required funding, additional contributions may be required if our plan is not fully funded when the provisions that provided the relief are phased out. See Note 13, “Company-Sponsored Employee Benefit Plans” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the Retirement Plan.    

 The amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the plan’s assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability. Our Retirement Plan holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. Fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. The projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in   

 10  

determining our minimum funding requirements. Specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our funding obligations. To the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity.   

 Failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages  

 As of June 29, 2013, approximately 8,100 employees at 51 operating companies were members of 57 different local unions associated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and other labor organizations. In fiscal 2014, 19 agreements covering approximately 2,800 employees have expired or will expire. Since June 29, 2013, two contract covering approximately 300 of such employees have been renegotiated. Failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. Although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us.   

 A shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings  

 Our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. Our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. Any such shortage would decrease Sysco’s ability to effectively serve our customers. Such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings.  

 A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers   

 We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and our customers. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers’ and suppliers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the Company and its business partners. Further, as the Company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the Company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage.   

 Our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders  

 Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Sysco’s Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire Sysco without approval of the Board of Directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. In addition, if anyone attempts to acquire Sysco without approval of the Board of Directors of Sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the Board of Directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. As a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of Sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

 None.   

 11  

 Item 2. Properties