Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

Our financial information for fiscal 2018 is summarized in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. The following background is provided to readers to assist in the review of our financial information.

We present three reportable segments: Dental, Animal Health and Corporate. Dental and Animal Health are strategic business units that offer similar products and services to different customer bases. Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America. Animal Health is a leading, full-line distributor in North America and the U.K. of animal health products, services and technologies to both the production-animal and companion-pet markets. Our Corporate segment is comprised of general and administrative expenses, including home office support costs in areas such as information technology, finance, legal, human resources and facilities. In addition, customer financing and other miscellaneous sales are reported within Corporate results.

Operating margins of the animal health business are considerably lower than the dental business. While operating expenses run at a lower rate in the animal health business when compared to the dental business, gross margins in the animal health business are substantially lower due generally to the low margins experienced on the sale of pharmaceutical products.

We operate with a 52-53 week accounting convention with our fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in April. Fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 ended on April 28, 2018, April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016, respectively. Fiscal 2018 and 2017 consisted of 52 weeks, while fiscal 2016 consisted of 53 weeks. Fiscal 2019 will end on April 27, 2019 and will consist of 52 weeks.

We believe there are several important aspects of our business that are useful in analyzing it, including: (1) growth in the various markets in which we operate; (2) internal growth; (3) growth through acquisition; and (4) continued focus on controlling costs and enhancing efficiency. Management defines internal growth as the increase in net sales from period to period, adjusting for differences in the number of weeks in fiscal years, excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, and excluding the net sales, for a period of twelve months following the transaction date, of businesses we have acquired.

FACTORS AFFECTING OUR RESULTS

Enterprise Resource Planning System Initiatives. In the third quarter of fiscal 2017, we completed the application development stage of our enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system, and we began depreciating our investment in such system. We incurred increased depreciation and other operating expenses of approximately $25.0 million in the fiscal year ended April 29, 2017 as compared to the fiscal year ended April 30, 2016 related to this implementation. Depreciation and other operating expenses related to this implementation were approximately the same in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017.

Intangible Asset Impairment. In fiscal 2006, we extended our exclusive North American distribution relationship with Sirona for its CEREC 3D dental restorative system. At that time, we paid a $100.0 million distribution fee to extend the existing exclusive relationship for at least a 10-year period beginning in 2007. This distribution fee has been accounted for as an intangible asset that has been amortized since 2007. Based on our November 2016 decision not to extend sales exclusivity for the full Sirona portfolio of products, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $36.3 million, or $23.0 million after taxes or $0.24 per diluted share in our Dental segment in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, related to the distribution fee associated with the CEREC product component of this arrangement. 

U.S. Tax Reform. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”). The Tax Act significantly revises the future ongoing U.S. federal corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering U.S. federal corporate tax rates and implementing a territorial tax system. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%. For our fiscal year ending April 28, 2018, we utilized a blended rate of approximately 30.5%. For fiscal 2018, these impacts resulted in a provisional discrete net tax benefit of $76.6 million, which included provisional amounts of $81.9 million of tax benefit on U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities, $4.0 million of tax expense for a one-time transition tax on unremitted foreign earnings and $1.2 million in withholding taxes paid on current year distributions. 

35
Animal Health International Acquisition. In June 2015, we completed the acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc., a leading production animal health distribution company in the U.S. Prior to our acquisition, Animal Health International, Inc. generated sales and earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization of $1.5 billion and $68 million, respectively, during the 12 months ended March 2015. Our acquisition more than doubled the revenue of our legacy animal health business, which was previously focused on the companion animal market. Our animal health business now offers an expanded range of products and services to a broader base of customers in North America and the U.K. During fiscal 2016, we incurred $10.4 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, on an after-tax basis, of transaction costs related to the acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc.

Cash Repatriation. In fiscal 2016, we approved a one-time repatriation of approximately $200.0 million of foreign earnings. This one-time repatriation reduced the overall cost of funding the acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc. In addition, certain foreign cash at Patterson Medical was required to be repatriated as part of the sale transaction. A continuing operations tax impact of $12.3 million from the repatriation was recorded during fiscal 2016. During fiscal 2017, we recorded a $2.4 million tax benefit related to a change in estimate of the tax impact of the cash repatriation. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Results of Operations

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Continuing Operations

The following table summarizes our results from continuing operations as a percent of net sales from continuing operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Sales. Consolidated net sales in fiscal 2018 were $5,465.7 million, a decrease of 2.3% from $5,593.1 million in fiscal 2017. Foreign exchange rate changes had a favorable impact of 0.5% on fiscal 2018 sales.

Dental segment sales decreased 8.1% to $2,196.1 million in fiscal 2018 from $2,390.2 million in fiscal 2017. Foreign exchange rate changes had a favorable impact of 0.3% on current year sales. Sales of consumables decreased 5.3%, due primarily to the impact of our sales force realignment and ERP system initiatives. Dental equipment and software sales decreased 15.4%, due primarily to a decrease in sales of digital technology products, which was driven by the market transition to new technology offerings, and our decision to broaden our portfolio of those offerings. Sales of other dental services and products decreased 1.2% in fiscal 2018. 

Animal Health segment sales grew 2.6% to $3,242.6 million in fiscal 2018 from $3,159.8 million in fiscal 2017. Foreign exchange rate changes had a favorable impact of 0.7% on fiscal 2018 sales. Sales of certain products previously recognized on a gross basis were recognized on a net basis during fiscal 2018, resulting in an estimated 2.1% unfavorable impact to sales.

Gross Profit. Consolidated gross profit margin decreased 140 basis points from the prior year to 21.9%. Gross profit margin rates decreased in both the Dental and Animal Health segment. Unfavorable sales mix, lower rebates and a change in estimate related to year-end inventory valuations in both our Dental and Animal Health segment were the primary drivers of the decline in the gross profit margin rate. In addition, a greater percentage of sales came from our lower margin Animal Health segment during fiscal 2018, resulting in a lower consolidated gross profit margin rate.

36
Operating Expenses. Consolidated operating expenses for fiscal 2018 were $979.5 million, a 3.4% decrease from the prior year of $1,013.5 million. We incurred higher operating expenses during fiscal 2017 primarily as a result of the intangible asset impairment charge in our Dental segment. The decrease in consolidated operating expenses was also driven by cost containment efforts, partially offset by higher non-cash employee compensation. The consolidated operating expense ratio of 17.9% decreased 30 basis points from the prior year due to these same factors. 

Operating Income from Continuing Operations. Operating income from continuing operations was $219.9 million, or 4.0% of net sales, in fiscal 2018, compared to $287.9 million, or 5.1% of sales, in fiscal 2017. The decrease in operating income from continuing operations was driven by lower net sales and lower gross margins, partially offset by the intangible asset impairment charge recorded in fiscal 2017 and cost containment efforts. The decrease in operating income from continuing operations as a percent of net sales was driven by these same factors. In addition, a greater percentage of sales came from our lower margin Animal Health segment during fiscal 2018, which reduced operating income from continuing operations as a percent of net sales.

Dental segment operating income was $229.2 million for fiscal 2018, a decrease of $34.5 million from fiscal 2017. The decrease was driven primarily by lower net sales and higher non-cash employee compensation, partially offset by the $36.3 million impairment charge recorded in fiscal 2017.

Animal Health segment operating income was $78.1 million for fiscal 2018, a decrease of $10.1 million from fiscal 2017. The decrease was primarily due to lower gross margins and higher non-cash employee compensation.

Corporate segment operating loss was $87.4 million for fiscal 2018, as compared to a loss of $63.9 million for fiscal 2017. The change was driven primarily by a decrease in the gain on sale related to our customer financing programs, as well as higher expenses due to a separation agreement with our former chief executive officer and higher non-cash employee compensation.

Other Income (Expense), Net. Net other expense was $40.6 million in fiscal 2018, compared to $37.0 million in fiscal 2017. The increase was mainly due to higher interest expense in fiscal 2018.

Income Tax Expense (Benefit). The effective income tax rate was (12.1)% in fiscal 2018 and 30.7% in fiscal 2017. The tax benefit in fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act.

Net Income and Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations. Net income from continuing operations increased 15.6% to $201.0 million in fiscal 2018, compared to $173.8 million in the prior year. Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $2.16 in fiscal 2018, compared to $1.82 in the prior year. Weighted average diluted shares in fiscal 2018 were 93,094,000, compared to 95,567,000 in the prior year. The fiscal 2018 cash dividend was $1.04 per common share, compared to $0.98 in the prior year.

Discontinued Operations

Net loss from discontinued operations was $0 in fiscal 2018 and $2.9 million in fiscal 2017. The net loss incurred during fiscal 2017 was due to a change in estimate of the tax impact of the sale of Patterson Medical, which was completed in August 2015.

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 

Continuing Operations

Net Sales. Consolidated net sales in fiscal 2017 were $5,593.1 million, an increase of 3.8% from $5,386.7 million in fiscal 2016. The inclusion of Animal Health International, Inc. results for approximately six additional weeks in fiscal 2017 had a 3.6% favorable impact on sales, foreign exchange rate changes had an estimated 1.7% unfavorable impact on fiscal 2017 sales, and one less week of results in fiscal 2017 had a 1.0% unfavorable impact on sales, resulting in internal growth of 2.9%.

Dental segment sales decreased 3.5% to $2,390.2 million in fiscal 2017 from $2,476.2 million in fiscal 2016. One less week of results in fiscal 2017 had an estimated 1.1% unfavorable impact on sales. Adjusting for this difference in number of weeks, sales decreased 2.4%. Sales of consumables decreased 4.1%, primarily due to having one less week of results in fiscal 2017 and to a sales force realignment in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Dental equipment and software sales decreased 3.2%, primarily due to a decrease in sales of digital products, partially offset by increased sales of core equipment. Sales of other dental services and products decreased 1.0% in fiscal 2017. 

37
Animal Health segment sales grew 10.4% to $3,159.8 million in fiscal 2017 from $2,862.2 million in fiscal 2016. Incremental sales attributed to the acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc. contributed 6.8% to this sales growth, foreign exchange rate changes had an unfavorable impact of 3.1% on fiscal 2017 sales, and one less week of results in fiscal 2017 had a 1.0% unfavorable impact on sales, resulting in internal growth of 7.7%. In addition, due to changes in certain vendor relationships, sales of certain products previously recognized on an agency basis were recognized on a buy/sell basis during fiscal 2017, resulting in a 2.5% favorable impact to sales.

Gross Profit. Consolidated gross profit margin decreased 130 basis points from fiscal 2016 to 23.3%. The decrease in the gross profit margin rate was predominantly the result of the inclusion of sales and cost of sales from Animal Health International, Inc. in our results for a full year in fiscal 2017, as that business traditionally has lower gross margins than our historical businesses. In addition, the Animal Health segment gross margin rate declined when compared to fiscal 2016, primarily as a result of pricing pressure from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers, execution challenges associated with integration activities in our Animal Health segment and unfavorable product mix.

Operating Expenses. Consolidated operating expenses for fiscal 2017 were $1,013.5 million, a 3.9% increase from the prior year of $975.0 million. The increase was predominantly the result of the $36.3 million intangible asset impairment charge recognized in fiscal 2017 in our Dental segment, increased expenses related to our ERP system initiatives and the inclusion of Animal Health International, Inc. results for a full year in fiscal 2017, partially offset by reduced transaction costs related to the acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc., synergy capture in our Animal Health segment and cost containment efforts. The consolidated operating expense ratio of 18.2% decreased 10 basis points from fiscal 2016 due to these same factors. 

Operating Income from Continuing Operations. Operating income from continuing operations was $287.9 million, or 5.1% of net sales, in fiscal 2017, compared to $347.7 million, or 6.5% of sales, in fiscal 2016. The decrease in operating income from continuing operations and operating income as a percent of sales were driven primarily by the impairment charge and increased expenses related to our ERP system initiative. The decrease in operating income as a percent of sales was mainly due to these same factors.

Dental segment operating income was $263.7 million for fiscal 2017, a decrease of $48.5 million from the prior year period. The decrease was driven primarily by the impairment charge, increased expenses related to our ERP system initiatives and lower sales volumes.

Animal Health segment operating income was $88.1 million for fiscal 2017, a decrease of $6.2 million from the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by lower gross margins, which decreased as a result of pricing pressure from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers, execution challenges associated with integration activities, unfavorable product mix and increased expenses related to our ERP system initiatives. Synergy capture, cost containment efforts and lower bad debt expense in fiscal 2017 partially offset these factors.

Corporate segment operating loss was $63.9 million for fiscal 2017, as compared to a loss of $58.8 million from the prior year period. The change was driven primarily by lower net sales related to our customer financing contracts and increased legal expenses, partially offset by reduced transaction costs related to the acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc.

Other Income (Expense), Net. Net other expense was $37.0 million in fiscal 2017, compared to $46.0 million in fiscal 2016. The decrease was mainly due to $5.2 million of accelerated debt issuance cost amortization incurred in fiscal 2016.

Income Tax Expense (Benefit). The effective income tax rate was 30.7% in fiscal 2017 and 38.5% in fiscal 2016. The decrease in the rate was primarily due to the fiscal 2016 impact of cash repatriation and transaction-related costs incurred in the acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc. In addition, the fiscal 2017 rate included excess tax benefits from the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-09, "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU No. 2016-09 eliminated the additional paid-in capital pool concept and requires that excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies be recorded in the income statement when awards are settled. In fiscal 2017, we adopted ASU No. 2016-09. As a result of this adoption, we recognized $2,493 of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments in our provision for income taxes in fiscal 2017. These items were historically recorded in additional paid-in capital. 

38
Net Income and Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations. Net income from continuing operations decreased 6.4% to $173.8 million in fiscal 2017, compared to $185.7 million in the prior year. Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $1.82 in fiscal 2017, compared to $1.90 in the prior year. Weighted average diluted shares in fiscal 2017 were 95,567,000, compared to 97,902,000 in the prior year. The fiscal 2017 cash dividend was $0.98 per common share, compared to $0.90 in the prior year.

Discontinued Operations

Net loss from discontinued operations was $2.9 million in fiscal 2017, compared to net income from discontinued operations of $1.5 million in fiscal 2016. The net loss incurred during fiscal 2017 was due to a change in estimate of the tax impact of the sale of Patterson Medical.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Patterson’s operating cash flow has been our principal source of liquidity in the last three fiscal years. During each of these fiscal years, we used our revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity in addition to operating cash flow. Net cash provided by operating activities was $178.9 million in fiscal 2018, compared to $162.7 million in fiscal 2017 and $156.3 million in fiscal 2016. Our cash flows from operating activities are primarily driven by net income from continuing operations.

Net cash flows provided by investing activities were $17.0 million in fiscal 2018, compared to net cash flows provided by investing activities of $1.2 million in fiscal 2017 and net cash flows used in investing activities of $400.6 million in fiscal 2016. Collections of deferred purchase price receivables were $49.7 million, $51.4 million and $22.3 million in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.Capital expenditures were $43.3 million, $47.0 million and $79.4 million in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Significant expenditures in each year included investments in our ERP system initiatives. Fiscal 2016 included the purchase of Animal Health International, Inc. for $1,106.6 million, which was partially offset by the receipt of net cash proceeds of $714.4 million from completion of the sale of Patterson Medical. In addition, fiscal 2016 included the sale of securities of $48.7 million. We expect to use a total of approximately $75 million for capital expenditures in fiscal 2019. 

In March 2018, we issued fixed-rate senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $150.0 million, due fiscal 2028. The proceeds were used to repay $150.0 million of senior notes that came due in March 2018.

During fiscal 2016, we entered into a credit agreement ("Credit Agreement"), under which the lenders provided us with senior unsecured lending facilities of up to $1.5 billion, consisting of a $1.0 billion unsecured term loan and a $500 million unsecured revolving line of credit. In fiscal 2017, we entered into an amendment of the Credit Agreement (“Amended Credit Agreement”), consisting of a $295.1 million term loan and a $750 million revolving line of credit. Interest on borrowings is variable and is determined as a base rate plus a spread. This spread, as well as a commitment fee on the unused portion of the facility, is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Amended Credit Agreement. The term loan and revolving credit facilities will mature no later than January 2022.

As of April 28, 2018, $276.6 million of the Amended Credit Agreement unsecured term loan was outstanding at an interest rate of 3.40%, and $16.0 million was outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement revolving line of credit at an interest rate of 2.95%. At April 29, 2017, $291.4 million was outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement unsecured term loan at an interest rate of 2.24%, and $59.0 million was outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement revolving line of credit at an interest rate of 2.19%.

Total dividends paid in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $99.2 million, $95.9 million and $90.6 million, respectively. We expect to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend for the foreseeable future. In fiscal 2018, we repurchased 2.1 million shares of common stock for $87.5 million. In fiscal 2017, we repurchased 2.9 million shares of common stock for $125.4 million. In fiscal 2016, we repurchased 4.4 million shares of common stock for $200.0 million.

On March 13, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized a new $500 million share repurchase program through March 13, 2021. The new repurchase program replaced the remaining authorization from our March 2013 plan to purchase up to 25 million shares, which was scheduled to expire on March 19, 2018. As of April 28, 2018, $500 million remains available under the current repurchase authorization.

We have $63.0 million in cash and cash equivalents as of April 28, 2018, of which $7.9 million is in foreign bank accounts. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our intention to permanently reinvest these funds. Included in cash and cash equivalents as of April 28, 2018 is $35.7 million of cash 

39
collected from previously sold customer financing arrangements that have not yet been settled with the third party. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. We expect funds generated from operations, existing cash balances and credit availability under existing debt facilities will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs and to finance anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives over the next fiscal year. 

We expect to continue to obtain liquidity from the sale of equipment finance contracts. Patterson sells a significant portion of our finance contracts (see below) to a commercial paper funded conduit managed by a third party bank, and as a result, commercial paper is indirectly an important source of liquidity for Patterson. Patterson is allowed to participate in the conduit due to the quality of our finance contracts and our financial strength. Cash flows could be impaired if our financial strength diminishes to a level that precluded us from taking part in this facility or other similar facilities. Also, market conditions outside of our control could adversely affect the ability for us to sell the contracts. 

Customer Financing Arrangements

As a convenience to our customers, we offer several different financing alternatives, including a third party program and a Patterson-sponsored program. For the third party program, we act as a facilitator between the customer and the third party financing entity with no on-going involvement in the financing transaction. Under the Patterson-sponsored program, equipment purchased by creditworthy customers may be financed up to a maximum of $1 million. We generally sell our customers’ financing contracts to outside financial institutions in the normal course of our business. We currently have two arrangements under which we sell these contracts.

First, we operate under an agreement to sell a portion of our equipment finance contracts to commercial paper conduits with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. ("BTMU") serving as the agent. We utilize PDC Funding, a consolidated, wholly owned subsidiary, to fulfill a requirement of participating in the commercial paper conduit. We receive the proceeds of the contracts upon sale to BTMU. The capacity under the agreement with BTMU at April 28, 2018 was $575 million.

Second, we maintain an agreement with Fifth Third Bank ("Fifth Third") whereby Fifth Third purchases customers’ financing contracts. PDC Funding II, a consolidated, wholly owned subsidiary, sells financing contracts to Fifth Third. We receive the proceeds of the contracts upon sale to Fifth Third. The capacity under the agreement with Fifth Third at April 28, 2018 was $100 million.

Our financing business is described in further detail in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Contractual Obligations

A summary of our contractual obligations as of April 28, 2018 follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of April 28, 2018 our gross liability for uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties, was $16.0 million. We are not able to reasonably estimate the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over an extended period of time or whether a cash settlement of the liability will be required. Therefore, these amounts have been excluded from the schedule of contractual obligations. 

For a more complete description of our contractual obligations, see Notes 6 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Outlook

40
We believe certain strategic decisions made will have an effect on our future results of operations. In the near term, we believe that our decision to not extend our exclusive relationship with Sirona for its full portfolio of products and a realignment of our sales force will have a negative effect on sales. In addition, disruptions from our ERP system initiatives could negatively impact results. While these strategic decisions are expected to impact our near-term performance, we believe that we are making the right strategic moves to facilitate growth in our two key operating businesses.

Asset Management

The following table summarizes our accounts receivable days sales outstanding (“DSO”) and average annual inventory turnover for the past three fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign Operations

We derive foreign sales from Dental operations in Canada, and Animal Health operations in Canada and the U.K. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have not significantly impacted earnings, as these fluctuations impact sales, cost of sales and operating expenses. However, changes in exchange rates positively impacted net sales by $29.5 million in fiscal 2018, while they adversely affected net sales by $89.9 million and $69.4 million in fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively. Changes in currency exchange rates are a risk accompanying foreign operations, but this risk is not considered material with respect to our consolidated operations.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Patterson has adopted various accounting policies to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Management believes that our policies are conservative and our philosophy is to adopt accounting policies that minimize the risk of adverse events having a material impact on recorded assets and liabilities. However, the preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and judgments regarding the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities based on the information available to management at the time. Changes subsequent to the preparation of the financial statements in economic, technological and competitive conditions may materially impact the recorded values of Patterson’s assets and liabilities. Therefore, the users of the financial statements should read all the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and be aware that conditions currently unknown to management may develop in the future. This may require a material adjustment to a recorded asset or liability to consistently apply to our significant accounting principles and policies that are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial performance and condition of Patterson may also be materially impacted by transactions and events that we have not previously experienced and for which we have not been required to establish an accounting policy or adopt a generally accepted accounting principle.

Revenue Recognition – Revenues are generated from the sale of consumable products, equipment, software products and services, technical service parts and labor, freight and delivery charges, and other sources. Revenues are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, and there is reasonable assurance of collection of the sale. Estimates for returns, damaged goods, rebates, loyalty programs and other revenue allowances are made at the time the revenue is recognized based on the historical experience for such items. In addition to revenues generated from the distribution of consumable products under conventional arrangements (buy/sell agreements) where the full market value of the product is recorded as revenue, the animal health segment may earn a small amount of commission income for services provided under agency agreements with certain pharmaceutical manufacturers. The services generally consist of detailing the product and taking the customer’s order. The agency agreement contrasts to a buy/sell agreement in that 

41
the animal health segment does not purchase and handle the product or bill and collect from the customer in an agency relationship with a vendor.

Consumable product sales are recorded upon delivery, except in those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point, in which case sales are recorded upon shipment. Commissions under agency agreements are recorded when the services are provided.

Equipment and software product revenues are recognized upon delivery and, if necessary, installation. In those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point, revenues are recognized when products are transferred to the shipping carrier. Revenue derived from post contract customer support for software is deferred and recognized ratably over the period in which the support is provided. Patterson provides financing for select equipment sales. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding customer financing.

Other revenue, including freight and delivery charges and technical service parts and labor, is recognized when the related product revenue is recognized or when the product or services are provided to the customer.

The receivables that result from the recognition of revenue are reported net of the related allowances discussed above. Patterson maintains a valuation allowance based upon the expected collectability of receivables held. Estimates are used to determine the valuation allowance and are based on several factors, including historical collection data, economic trends and credit worthiness of customers. Receivables are written off when we determine the amounts to be uncollectible, typically upon customer bankruptcy or non-response to continuous collection efforts. The portions of receivable amounts that are not expected to be collected during the next twelve months are classified as long-term.

Patterson has a relatively large, dispersed customer base and no single customer accounts for more than 10% of consolidated net sales. In addition, the equipment sold to customers under finance contracts generally serves as collateral for the contract and the customer provides a personal guarantee as well.

Patterson Advantage Loyalty Program – Patterson Dental provides a point-based awards program to qualifying customers involving the issuance of “Patterson Advantage dollars” which can be used toward equipment and technology purchases. Patterson Advantage dollars earned during a program year expire one year after the end of the program year. The cost and corresponding liability associated with the program is recognized as contra-revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 605-50, “Revenue Recognition-Customer Payments and Incentives.” As of April 28, 2018, we believe we have sufficient experience with the program to reasonably estimate the amount of Patterson Advantage dollars that will not be redeemed and thus have recorded a liability for 87% of the maximum potential amount that could be redeemed. We use the redemption recognition method, and we recognize the estimated value of unused Patterson Advantage dollars as redemptions occur. Breakage recognized was immaterial to all periods presented.

Inventory and Reserves – Inventory consists primarily of merchandise held for sale and is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method for all inventories, except for foreign inventories and manufactured inventories, which are valued using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method. We continually assess the valuation of inventories and reduce the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of forecasted usage to estimated realizable value. Estimates are made of the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements.

Effective January 28, 2018, the Company changed its method of calculating LIFO inventories within its U.S. Animal Health business segment from the double-extension method to the link-chain method. The Company believes that the LIFO Link Chain method of inventory valuation is preferable as the LIFO Link Chain costing method provides a better matching of current costs with current revenues, provides for a LIFO adjustment more representative of the Company’s actual inflation on its inventories and conforms LIFO inventory costing method (Link Chain) with other Patterson operations that use the LIFO inventory method (Link Chain). The Company determined that it is impracticable to determine the cumulative effect of applying this change retrospectively to any periods prior to April 30, 2017 because complete records of inventory purchases are no longer available for periods prior to that date. The Company applied the change as of April 30, 2017, the earliest date practicable. The effect of the change on the results of operations for the year ended April 28, 2018 was to reduce the consolidated LIFO reserve and increase pre-tax income by $1.8 million. The effect of the change on interim periods in 2018 was not material.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets – Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired. We have two reporting units as of April 28, 2018; Dental and Animal Health. Our Corporate reportable segment's assets and liabilities, and net sales and expenses, are allocated to the two reporting units. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets include copyrights, trade names and trademarks.

42
We assess goodwill for impairment annually and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. If we determine that the fair value of the reporting unit may be less than its carrying amount, we evaluate goodwill using a two-step impairment test. Otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and we do not perform the two-step impairment test. In fiscal 2018, we determined it was appropriate to perform a two-step impairment test.

The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the book value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, with its fair value, as determined primarily by its discounted cash flows. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed to determine the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recorded. The determination of fair value involves uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry and economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. Patterson conducts impairment testing based on current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. Additionally, in assessing goodwill for impairment, the reasonableness of the implied control premium is considered based on market capitalizations and recent market transactions.

Other indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment by comparing the carrying value of an asset with its fair value. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. The determination of fair value involves assumptions, including projected revenues and gross profit levels, as well as consideration of any factors that may indicate potential impairment.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, management completed its annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests using the beginning of our fiscal 2018 fourth quarter as the valuation date, and determined there was no impairment, and that our Dental reporting unit was not at risk of failing step 1. The Animal Health reporting unit has a higher level of sensitivity to impairment as management currently assesses the various estimates and assumptions used to conduct these tests. Adverse changes to one or more of these estimates or assumptions could cause us to recognize a material impairment charge on this reporting unit. At the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the estimated fair value of the Animal Health reporting unit exceeded its book value by approximately 9%. Subsequent to the annual test being completed, we experienced events and circumstances that indicated that the carrying amount of goodwill may be impaired. These events and circumstances included a decline in our actual earnings, a decline in our projected future earnings and a sustained decrease in our share price. As such, we tested our goodwill for impairment as of April 28, 2018, and determined that there was no impairment. As of April 28, 2018, the estimated fair value of the Animal Health reporting unit exceeded its book value by approximately 11%. 

Long-Lived Assets – Long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such assets. Our definite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of customer relationships, trade names and trademarks. When impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value using level 3 inputs, as discussed further in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In fiscal 2017, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $36.3 million related to a distribution agreement intangible asset. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Related Party Transactions – We have interests in a number of entities that are accounted for using the equity method. During fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 we made purchases of $84.2 million, $55.2 million and $46.4 million from these entities, respectively. During fiscal 2018, we recorded sales of $19.7 million to these entities. No sales to these entities were recorded in fiscal 2017 or 2016.

Income Taxes – We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes. The Tax Act, and the provisional nature of the adjustments contained therein, may create potential added uncertainties.

During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, we recognize tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return position is supportable, we believe that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We believe that our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made and could materially affect our financial results.

43
Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets if, after assessment of available positive and negative evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be fully realized. The valuation allowance reflected in the footnote disclosure relates primarily to foreign tax credit carryovers generated in fiscal 2016.

Self-insurance – Patterson is self-insured for certain losses related to general liability, product liability, automobile, workers’ compensation and medical claims. We estimate our liabilities based upon an analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. While current estimates are believed reasonable based on information currently available, actual results could differ and affect financial results due to changes in the amount or frequency of claims, medical cost inflation or other factors. Historically, actual results related to these types of claims have not varied significantly from estimated amounts.

Stock-based Compensation – We recognize stock-based compensation based on certain assumptions including inputs within valuation models, estimated forfeitures and estimated performance outcomes. These assumptions require subjective judgment and changes in the assumptions can materially affect fair value estimates. Management assesses the assumptions and methodologies used to estimate forfeitures and to calculate estimated fair value of stock-based compensation on a regular basis. Circumstances may change, and additional data may become available over time, which could result in changes to these assumptions and methodologies and thereby materially impact the fair value determination or estimates of forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, the amount of compensation expense associated with stock-based compensation may differ significantly from what was recorded in the current period.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK