PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

Certain information of a non-historical nature contained in Items 1, 2, 3 and 7 of this Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in this Form 10-K, the words “anticipates,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “intends,” “expects,” “projects,” “will” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such words. Such statements, including, but not limited to, our statements regarding business strategy, growth strategy, competitive strengths, productivity and profitability enhancement, competition, new product and service introductions and liquidity and capital resources, are based on management’s beliefs, as well as on assumptions made by and information currently available to management, and involve various risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. Reference is made to “Risk Factors” in Item 1A and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K, for a discussion of certain factors that could cause actual operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking information will in fact prove to be accurate. We have undertaken no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

General

Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added specialty distributor serving the U.S. and Canadian dental supply markets and the U.S., Canadian and U.K. animal health supply markets. Patterson operates through its two strategic business units, Patterson Dental and Patterson Animal Health, offering similar products and services to different customer bases. Each business has a strong competitive position, serves a highly fragmented market that offers consolidation opportunities and offers relatively low-cost consumable supplies, which makes our value-added business proposition highly attractive to our customers. We believe that we have a strong brand identity as a value-added, full-service distributor with broad product and service offerings, having begun distributing dental supplies in 1877.

In fiscal 2018, we continued the transformation that began in June 2015, when we more than doubled the size of our animal health business through the acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc. for $1.1 billion. This acquisition added a leading production animal supply business to our preexisting companion animal supply business, resulting in the creation of our animal health segment. In August 2015, we completed the disposition of our medical rehabilitative and assistive products supply business, Patterson Medical, for $717 million; the results of that business are now presented as discontinued operations. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the sale of Patterson Medical.

The following table sets forth consolidated net sales (in millions) by segment. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our operating income and total assets by segment.

Our strategically located fulfillment centers enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers’ needs. Our infrastructure also allows us to provide convenient ordering and rapid, accurate and complete order fulfillment.

Electronic commerce solutions have become an integral part of dental and animal health supply and distribution relationships. Our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. 

3
The continuing advancement of online commerce requires us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address the changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. We believe that our tradition of reliable service, our name recognition and large customer base built on solid customer relationships, position us well to participate in this significant aspect of the distribution business. We continue to explore methods to improve and expand our Internet presence and capabilities, including our online commerce offerings and our use of various social media outlets.

Patterson became publicly traded in 1992 and is a corporation organized under the laws of the state of Minnesota. We are headquartered in St. Paul, Minnesota. Our principal executive offices are located at 1031 Mendota Heights Road, St. Paul, Minnesota, and our telephone number is (651) 686-1600. Unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the “Company,” “Patterson,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Patterson Companies, Inc., a Minnesota corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.

The Specialty Distribution Markets We Serve

We provide manufacturers with cost effective logistics and high-caliber sales professionals to access a geographically diverse customer base, which is critical to the supply chain for the markets we serve. We provide our customers with a vast array of value-added services, a dedicated and highly skilled sales team, and a broad selection of products through a single channel, thereby helping them efficiently manage their ordering process. Due in part to the inability of our customers to store and manage large quantities of supplies at their locations, the distribution of supplies and small equipment has been characterized by frequent, small-quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially-complete order fulfillment. Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier.

We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue as distributors, particularly those with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seek to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities. This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base.

Dental Supply Market

The dental supply market we serve consists of a sizeable geographically dispersed number of highly fragmented dental practices. Customers range in size from sole practitioners to large group practices or service organizations. According to the American Dental Association and the Canadian Dental Association, there are approximately 198,000 dentists practicing in the U.S. and 22,000 dentists practicing in Canada, respectively. We believe the average dental practitioner purchases supplies from more than one supplier.

We believe the dental supply market continues to experience growth due to an increasing U.S. population, an aging population in North America, advances in dentistry, demand for general, preventive and specialty services, increasing demand for new technologies that allow dentists to increase productivity, demand for infection control products, and insurance coverage by dental plans.

We support dental professionals through the many stock keeping units (“SKUs”) that we offer, as well as through important value-added services, including practice management software, electronic claims processing, financial services and continuing education, all designed to help maximize a practitioner’s efficiency.

Animal Health Supply Market

The animal health supply market is a mix of production animal supply, which primarily consists of beef and dairy cattle, poultry and swine, and other food-producing animals, and companion animal supply, which primarily consists of dogs, cats and horses. Similar to the dental supply market, the animal health supply market is highly fragmented and diverse. Our production animal customers include large animal veterinarians, beef producers (cow/calf, stocker and feedlots), dairy producers, poultry producers, swine producers and retail customers. According to the American Veterinary Medical Association, there are more than 70,000 veterinarians in private practice in the U.S. and Canada. Furthermore, there are approximately 22,000 veterinarians in the U.K. practicing in veterinary outlets; however, we believe there has been a shift in the U.K. market toward consolidation of veterinary practices. National Veterinary Services Limited, our veterinary products distributor in the U.K., has the highest percentage of buying groups and corporations as customers compared to its competitors. 

4
We believe the animal health supply market provides growth opportunities for us. We support our animal health customers through the distribution of biologicals, pharmaceuticals, parasiticides, supplies and equipment and by actively engaging in the development, sale and distribution of inventory, accounting and health management systems. Within the companion animal supply market, we anticipate increasing demand for veterinary services due to the following factors: the increasing number of households with companion animals, increased expenditures on animal health and preventative care, an aging pet population, advancements in animal health products and diagnostic testing, and extensive marketing programs sponsored by companion animal nutrition and pharmaceutical companies.

Product sales in the production animal supply market are impacted by volatility in commodity prices such as milk, grains, livestock and poultry. Changes in weather patterns also influence how long cattle will graze and consequently the number of days an animal is on feed during a finishing phase. In addition, changes in the general economy can shift the number of animals treated, the timing of when animals are treated, to what extent they are treated and with which products they are treated. Historically, sales in this market have been largely driven by spending on animal health products to improve productivity, weight gain and disease prevention, as well as a growing focus on safety and efficiency in livestock production. Within the production animal supply market, we anticipate an increasing demand for protein as consumption continues to increase with the growing population.

Competition

The distribution industry is highly competitive. It consists principally of national, regional and local full-service distributors, mail-order distributors and, increasingly, online commerce. To a lesser extent, we also compete with mail order distributors and buying groups. Substantially all of the products we sell are available to customers from a number of suppliers. In addition, our competitors could obtain exclusive rights from manufacturers to market particular products. Some manufacturers also sell directly to end-users, thereby eliminating or reducing our role and that of other distributors.

We compete with other distributors, as well as several manufacturers, of dental and animal health products, on the basis of price, breadth of product line, customer service and value-added products and services. To differentiate ourselves from our competition we deploy a strategy of premium customer service with multiple value-added components, a highly qualified and motivated sales force, highly-trained and experienced service technicians, an extensive breadth and mix of products and services, technology solutions allowing customers to easily access our inventory, accurate and timely delivery of product, strategic location of sales offices and fulfillment centers, and competitive pricing.

In the U.S. and Canadian dental supply market, we compete against Henry Schein, Inc., Benco Dental Supply Company, Burkhardt Dental Supply and hundreds of distributors that operate on a regional or local level, or online. Also, as noted above, some manufacturers sell directly to end users. With regard to our dental practice management software, we compete against numerous companies, including Carestream Health, Inc. and Henry Schein, Inc.

In the U.S. and Canadian animal health supply market, our primary competitors are AmerisourceBergen and Henry Schein, Inc. We also compete against a number of regional and local animal health distributors, as well as a number of manufacturers, including pharmaceutical companies that sell directly to production animal operators, animal health product retailers and veterinarians. We face significant competition in the animal health supply market in the U.K., where we compete on the basis of price and customer service with several large competitors, including Henry Schein, Inc. and AmerisourceBergen. We also compete directly with pharmaceutical companies who sell certain products or services directly to the customer. In the animal health practice management market, our primary competitors are IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. and Henry Schein, Inc.

Successful distributors are increasingly providing value-added services in addition to the products they have traditionally provided. We believe that to remain competitive we must continue to add value to the distribution channel, while removing unnecessary costs associated with product movement. Significant price reductions by our competitors could result in competitive harm. Any of these competitive pressures may materially adversely affect our operating results.

Competitive Strengths

We have more than 140 years of experience in distributing products resulting in strong awareness of the Patterson brand. Although further information regarding these competitive strengths is set forth below in the discussion of our two strategic business units, our competitive strengths include:

5
•Broad product and service offerings at competitive prices. We offer approximately 190,000 SKUs to our customers, including many proprietary branded products. We believe that our proprietary branded products and our competitive pricing strategy have generated a loyal customer base that is confident in our brands. Of the SKUs offered, approximately 90,000 are offered to our dental customers and approximately 100,000 are offered to our animal health customers. Our product offerings include consumables, equipment and software. Our service offerings include software and design services, repair and maintenance, and equipment financing.

•Focus on customer relationships and exceptional customer service. Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and solidify customer relationships through personal visits by field sales representatives, interaction via phone with sales representatives, web-based activities including e-commerce and frequent direct marketing, emphasizing our broad product lines, competitive prices and ease of order placement. We focus on providing our customers with exceptional order fulfillment and a streamlined ordering process.

•Cost-effective purchasing and efficient distribution. We believe that cost-effective purchasing is a key element to maintaining and enhancing our position as a competitive-pricing provider of dental and animal health products. We strive to maintain optimal inventory levels to satisfy customer demand for prompt and complete order fulfillment through our distribution of products from strategically located fulfillment centers.

Business Strategy

Our objective is to continue to expand as a leading value-added distributor of dental and animal health products and services. To accomplish this, we will apply our competitive strengths in executing the following strategies:

•Emphasizing our value-added, full-service capabilities. We are positioned to meet virtually all of the needs of dental practitioners, veterinarians, production animal operators and animal health product retailers by providing a broad range of consumable supplies, technology, equipment and software and value-added services. We believe our knowledgeable sales representatives can create special relationships with customers by providing an informational link to the overall industry. Our value-added strategy is further supported by our equipment specialists who offer consultation on design, equipment requirements and financing, our service technicians who perform equipment installation, maintenance and repair services, our business development professionals who provide business tools and educational programs to our customers, and our technology advisors who provide guidance on integrating technology solutions.

•Using technology to enhance customer service. As part of our commitment to providing superior customer service, we offer our customers easy order placement. Although we offer computerized order entry systems that we believe help establish relationships with new customers and increase loyalty among existing customers, predominant platforms for ordering today include www.pattersondental.com, www.pattersonvet.com and www.animalhealthinternational.com. The use of these methods of ordering enables our sales representatives to spend more time with existing and prospective customers. Our Internet environment includes order entry, customer support for digital and our proprietary products, customer-loyalty program reports and services, and access to articles and manufacturers’ product information. We also provide real-time customer and sales information to our sales force, managers and vendors via the Internet. In addition, the Patterson Technology Center (the “PTC”) differentiates Patterson from our competition by positioning Patterson as a single-source solution for digital components. In addition to trouble-shooting through the PTC’s support center, customers can access various service capabilities offered by the PTC, including electronic claims and statement processing and system back-up capabilities.

•Continuing to improve operating efficiencies. We continue to implement programs designed to improve our operating efficiencies and allow for continued sales growth. This strategy includes our continuing investment in management information systems and consolidation and leveraging of fulfillment centers and sales branches between our operating segments. In addition, we have established shared sales branch offices in several locations.

•Growing through internal expansion and acquisitions. We intend to continue to grow by hiring established sales representatives, hiring and training skilled sales professionals, opening additional locations as needed, and acquiring other distributors in order to enter new, or more deeply penetrate existing, geographic markets, gain access to additional product lines, and expand our customer base. We believe both of our operating segments are well positioned to take advantage of expected continued consolidation in our markets. 

6
Dental Segment - Products, Services and Sources of Supply

Patterson Dental, one of the two largest distributors of dental products in North America, has operations in the U.S. and Canada. As a full-service, value-added supplier to over approximately 100,000 dentists, dental laboratories, institutions, and other healthcare professionals, Patterson Dental provides consumable products (including infection control, restorative materials, hand instruments and sterilization products); basic and advanced technology dental equipment; exclusive, innovative technology solutions, including practice management software and e-commerce solutions; patient education systems; and office forms and stationery. Patterson Dental offers customers approximately 90,000 SKUs of which more than 3,000 are private-label products sold under the Patterson brand. Patterson Dental also offers customers a range of related services including software and design services, maintenance and repair, and equipment financing. Net sales and operating income were $2.2 billion and $229 million in fiscal 2018, respectively.

The following table sets forth the percentage of total sales by the principal categories of products and services offered to our dental segment customers: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Consists of other value-added services, including software and design service, and maintenance and repair.

Patterson Dental obtains products from hundreds of vendors. Substantially all of our relationships with vendors are non-exclusive. In September 2017, we ended the exclusive portion of our relationship with Sirona Dental Systems to enable us to better serve the evolving needs of all of our customers and the full range of practice models, including the Dental Support Organizations (“DSOs”) that represent an increasing share of the dental market.

While Patterson Dental makes purchases from many suppliers, and there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, the concentration of business with key suppliers is considerable. In fiscal 2018 and 2017, Patterson Dental's top ten supply vendors accounted for approximately 48% and 61% of the total cost of sales, respectively. Its top vendor accounted for 20% and 30% of the total cost of sales for fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Animal Health Segment - Products, Services and Sources of Supply

Patterson Animal Health is a leading distributor of animal health products in the U.S., Canada and the U.K. We sell more than 100,000 SKUs sourced from over 3,000 manufacturers to over 50,000 customers in the highly fragmented animal health supply market. Products we distribute include pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, prescription and non-prescription diets, nutritionals, consumable supplies, equipment and software. We offer a private label portfolio of products to veterinarians, producers, and retailers through our Aspen, First Companion and Patterson Veterinary brands. We also provide a range of value-added services to our customers. Within our companion animal supply market, our principal customers are companion-pet and equine veterinarians, veterinary clinics, public and private institutions, and shelters. In our production animal supply market, our principal customers are large animal veterinarians, production animal operators and animal health product retailers. Net sales and operating income were $3.2 billion and $78 million in fiscal 2018, respectively.

7
The following table sets forth the percentage of total sales by the principal categories of products and services offered to our animal health segment customers:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Patterson Animal Health obtains products from over 3,000 vendors globally. While Patterson Animal Health makes purchases from many vendors and there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products, the concentration of business with key vendors is considerable. In fiscal 2018 and 2017, Patterson Animal Health’s top 10 manufacturers comprised approximately 70% of the total cost of sales, and the single largest supplier comprised approximately 18% of the total cost of sales.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

During fiscal 2018, we sold products or services to over 150,000 customers who made one or more purchases during the year. Our customers include dentists, laboratories, institutions, other healthcare professionals, veterinarians, other animal health professionals, production animal operators and animal health product retailers. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of sales during fiscal 2018, and we are not dependent on any single customer or geographic group of customers. 

We have offices throughout the U.S. and Canada so that we can provide a presence in the market and decision-making near the customer. Patterson Animal Health also has a central office in the U.K. Our offices, or sales branches, are staffed with a complete complement of our capabilities, including sales, customer service and technical service personnel, as well as a local manager who has decision-making authority with regard to customer-related transactions and issues.

A primary component of our value-added approach is our sales force. Due to the highly fragmented nature of the markets we serve, we believe that a large sales force is necessary to reach potential customers and to provide full service. Sales representatives provide an informational link to the overall industry, assist practitioners in selecting and purchasing products and help customers efficiently manage their supply inventories. Our need for a large dedicated sales force in the U.K. is reduced due to the presence of buying groups and corporate customers as well as the significant number of orders placed electronically in the U.K.

In the U.S., customer service representatives in call centers work in tandem with our sales representatives, providing a dual coverage approach for individual customers. In addition to processing orders, customer service representatives are responsible for assisting customers with ordering, informing customers of monthly promotions, and responding to general inquiries. In the U.K., our customer service team is primarily responsible for handling customer inquiries and resolving issues.

To assist our customers with their purchasing decisions, we provide a multi-touch point shopping experience. From print to digital, this seamless experience is inclusive of products and services information. Patterson offers online and in-print showcases of our expansive merchandise and equipment offerings, including digital imaging and computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing ("CAD/CAM") technologies, hand-held and similar instruments, sundries, office design, e-services, repair and support assistance, as well as financial services. We also promote select products and services through our monthly magazine, Insight, in the U.S. and Canada, and our quarterly magazine, The Cube, in the U.K. Additional direct marketing tools that we utilize include customer loyalty programs, social media, and participation in trade shows.

We believe that responsive delivery of quality supplies and equipment is key to customer satisfaction. We ship consumable supplies from our strategically located fulfillment centers in the U.S. and Canada. In the U.K., orders are accepted in a centralized fulfillment center and shipped nationwide to one of our depots located throughout the country at which pre-packed orders are sorted by route for delivery to customers. Orders for consumable supplies can be 

8
placed through our sales representatives, customer service representatives or electronically 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Rapid and accurate order fulfillment is another principal component of our value-added approach. 

In order to assure the availability of our broad product lines for prompt delivery to customers, we must maintain sufficient inventories at our fulfillment centers. Purchasing of consumables and standard equipment is centralized, and our purchasing department uses a real-time perpetual inventory system to manage inventory levels. Our inventory consists mostly of consumable supply items and pharmaceutical products. 

Geographic Information

For information on revenues and long-lived assets of our segments by geographic area, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Discontinued Operations

In August 2015, we sold Patterson Medical Holdings, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary responsible for our medical rehabilitative and assistive products supply business known as Patterson Medical, for $717 million to Madison Dearborn Partners. For a limited period of time following the disposition, Patterson continued to provide certain transition services to Patterson Medical, as owned by Madison Dearborn Partners, pursuant to a transition services agreement. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Seasonality and Other Factors Affecting Our Business and Quarterly Results

Our business in general is not seasonal; however, there are some products that typically sell more often during the winter or summer season. In any given month, unusual weather patterns (e.g., unusually hot or cold weather) could impact the sales volumes of these products, either positively or negatively. In addition, we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Quarterly results may be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, including:

•timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures;

•timing of pricing changes offered by our suppliers;

•timing of the introduction of new products and services by our suppliers;

•changes in or availability of supplier contracts or rebate programs;

•supplier rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals;

•changes in the way suppliers introduce or deliver products to market;

•costs of developing new applications and services;

•our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences;

•uncertainties regarding potential significant breaches of data security or disruptions of our information technology systems;

•unexpected regulatory actions, or government regulation generally;

•loss of sales representatives;

•costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses;

•costs associated with our self-insured insurance programs;

•general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the supply and distribution industry and related industries;

•our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships;

•unexpected difficulties of manufacturers in developing and manufacturing products;

•product demand and availability, or product recalls by manufacturers;

•exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury;

•increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers;

•fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies;

•changes in interest rates;

•restructuring costs;

•the adoption or repeal of legislation;

•changes in accounting principles; and

•litigation or regulatory judgments, expenses or settlements.

9
Governmental Regulation

Operating, Security and Licensure Standards

Our dental and animal health supply businesses involve the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard we are subject to various local, state, federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Among the U.S. federal laws applicable to us are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (the “FDC Act”), and Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act. We are also subject to comparable foreign regulations.

The FDC Act and similar foreign laws generally regulate the introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, reporting, marketing and distribution of, and record keeping for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices shipped in interstate commerce, and states may similarly regulate such activities within the state. Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, which provides authority to prevent the spread of communicable diseases, serves as the legal basis for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (“FDA”) regulation of human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as “HCT/P products.”

The federal Drug Quality and Security Act of 2013 brought about significant changes with respect to pharmaceutical supply chain requirements and pre-empts state law. Title II of this measure, known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act (“DSCSA”), is being phased in over 10 years, and is intended to build a national electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed in the U.S. The law’s track and trace requirements applicable to manufacturers, wholesalers, repackagers and dispensers (e.g., pharmacies) of prescription drugs took effect in January 2015. The DSCSA product tracing requirements replace the former FDA drug pedigree requirements and pre-empt state requirements that are inconsistent with, more stringent than, or in addition to, the DSCSA requirements.

The DSCSA also establishes certain requirements for the licensing and operation of prescription drug wholesalers and third party logistics providers (“3PLs”), and includes the creation of national wholesaler and 3PL licenses in cases where states do not license such entities. The DSCSA requires that wholesalers and 3PLs distribute drugs in accordance with certain standards regarding the recordkeeping, storage and handling of prescription drugs. The DSCSA requires wholesalers and 3PLs to submit annual reports to the FDA, which include information regarding each state where the wholesaler or 3PL is licensed, the name and address of each facility and contact information. According to FDA guidance, states are pre-empted from imposing any licensing requirements that are inconsistent with, less stringent than, directly related to, or covered by the standards established by federal law in this area. Current state licensing requirements will likely remain in effect until the FDA issues new regulations as directed by the DSCSA.

The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 and the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012 amended the FDC Act to require the FDA to promulgate regulations to implement a unique device identification (“UDI”) system. The FDA is phasing in the implementation of the UDI regulations over seven years, generally beginning with the highest-risk devices (i.e., Class III medical devices) and ending with the lowest-risk devices. The UDI regulations require “labelers” to include unique device identifiers (“UDIs”), with a content and format prescribed by the FDA and issued under a system operated by an FDA-accredited issuing agency, on the labels and packages of medical devices, and to directly mark certain devices with UDIs. The UDI regulations also require labelers to submit certain information concerning UDI-labeled devices to the FDA, much of which information is publicly available on an FDA database, the Global Unique Device Identification Database. Regulated labelers include entities such as device manufacturers, repackagers, reprocessors and relabelers that cause a device’s label to be applied or modified, with the intent that the device will be commercially distributed without any subsequent replacement or modification of the label, and include certain of our businesses.

Under the Controlled Substances Act, as a distributor of controlled substances, we are required to obtain and renew annually registrations for our facilities from the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) permitting us to handle controlled substances. We are also subject to other statutory and regulatory requirements relating to the storage, sale, marketing, handling and distribution of such drugs, in accordance with the Controlled Substances Act and its implementing regulations, and these requirements have been subject to heightened enforcement activity in recent times. We are subject to inspection by the DEA. There have also been increasing efforts by various levels of government globally to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or misbranded pharmaceuticals into the distribution system.

10
Certain of our businesses are also required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the DEA, the FDA, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as comparable foreign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies depending on the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing or sale. These businesses include those that distribute, manufacture and/or repackage prescription pharmaceuticals and/or medical devices and/or HCT/P products, or own pharmacy operations, or install, maintain or repair equipment. In addition, Section 301 of the National Organ Transplant Act, and a number of comparable state laws, impose civil and/or criminal penalties for the transfer of certain human tissue (for example, human bone products) for valuable consideration, while generally permitting payments for the reasonable costs incurred in procuring, processing, storing and distributing that tissue. We are also subject to foreign government regulation of such products. The DEA, the FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad inspection and enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend or limit the distribution of products by our fulfillment centers, seize or order the recall of products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. Foreign regulations subject us to similar foreign enforcement powers. Furthermore, compliance with legal requirements has required and may in the future require us to institute voluntary recalls of products we sell, which could result in financial losses and potential reputational harm. Our customers are also subject to significant federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulation.

Certain of our businesses are subject to various additional federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including with respect to the sale, transportation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, and safe working conditions.

Certain of our businesses also maintain contracts with governmental agencies and are subject to certain regulatory requirements specific to government contractors.

Antitrust

The U.S. federal government, most U.S. states and many foreign countries have antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. Violations of antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also can bring, and have brought, civil lawsuits against us in the U.S. for alleged antitrust violations, including claims for treble damages. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for additional information.

Health Care Fraud

Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. Some of these laws, referred to as “false claims laws,” prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of “relators,” who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the U.S. (and, if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claim laws. Under the federal False Claims Act, relators can be entitled to receive up to 30% of the total recoveries. Also, violations of the federal False Claims Act can result in treble damages. Most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal False Claims Act penalties. The U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010 (the “Health Care Reform Law”), significantly strengthened the federal False Claims Act and the federal Anti-Kickback Law provisions, which could lead to the possibility of increased whistleblower or relator suits, and among other things made clear that a federal Anti-Kickback Law violation can be a basis for federal False Claims Act liability.

Failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. In addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite 

11
and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing the risk of noncompliance.

Health Care Reform

The Health Care Reform Law increased federal oversight of private health insurance plans and included a number of provisions designed to reduce Medicare expenditures and the cost of health care generally, to reduce fraud and abuse, and to provide access to increased health coverage. The continued uncertain status of the Health Care Reform Law affects our ability to plan.

A Health Care Reform Law provision, generally referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act or Open Payments Program, has imposed reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) publishes information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities.

Under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. The Physician Payment Sunshine Act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may also be required to report under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. We are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. Our compliance with these rules imposes additional costs on us.

Regulated Software; Electronic Health Records

The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software intended for use in health care settings, and has developed and continues to develop policies on regulating clinical decision support tools and other types of software as medical devices. Certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the FDA or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements with respect to these products.

In addition, certain of our practice management products include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. These information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. For example, we are directly or indirectly subject to numerous and evolving federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, such as the privacy and security provisions of the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and implementing regulations (“HIPAA”). HIPAA requires, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties and other liabilities.

Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic transactions, such as transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. Certain of our electronic practice management products must meet these requirements. Failure to abide by electronic health data transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.

In addition, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have adopted a new pan-European General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), effective from May 25, 2018, which increases privacy rights for individuals in Europe, extends the scope of responsibilities for data controllers and data processors and imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies offering goods or services to individuals who are located in Europe (“Data Subjects”) or monitoring the behavior of such individuals (including by companies based outside of Europe). Noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of EUR 20 million, or 4% of global company 

12
revenues. Individual member states may impose additional requirements and penalties as they relate to certain things such as employee personal data. Among other things, the GDPR requires with respect to data concerning Data Subjects, company accountability, consents from Data Subjects or other acceptable legal basis needed to process the personal data, prompt breach notifications within 72 hours, fairness and transparency in how the personal data is stored, used or otherwise processed, and data integrity and security, and provides rights to Data Subjects relating to modification, erasure and transporting of the personal data. Our compliance with the new regulation is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We also sell products and services that health care providers use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers are subject to laws, regulations and industry standards, such as HIPAA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation.

International Transactions

In addition, U.S. and foreign import and export laws and regulations require us to abide by certain standards relating to the importation and exportation of products. We also are subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, as well as other types of foreign requirements similar to those imposed in the U.S.

There can be no assurance that regulations that impact our business or customers’ practices will not have a material adverse effect on our business. As a result of political, economic and regulatory influences, the health care distribution industry in the U.S. is under intense scrutiny and subject to fundamental changes. We cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.

See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Proprietary Rights

We hold trademarks relating to the “Patterson®” name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. Our U.S. trademark registrations have 10-year terms, and may be renewed for additional 10-year terms. We intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable.

Employees

As of April 28, 2018, we had approximately 7,700 full-time employees. We have not experienced a shortage of qualified personnel in the past and believe that we will be able to attract such employees in the future. We believe our relations with employees to be good.

Available Information

We make available free of charge through our website, www.pattersoncompanies.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) and Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. This material may be accessed by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

The above information is also available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 

13
3:00 p.m., or obtainable by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov, where the above information can be viewed.

Information relating to our corporate governance, including our Principles of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics, and information concerning executive officers, Board of Directors and Board committees, and transactions in Patterson securities by directors and officers, is available on or through our website, www.pattersoncompanies.com in the Investor Relations section.

Information maintained on the website is not being included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Set forth below is the name, age and position of the executive officers of Patterson, who are elected annually and serve at the discretion of our Board of Directors, as of June 21, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Background of Executive Officers

Mark S. Walchirk became our President and Chief Executive Officer in November 2017. Mr. Walchirk previously served as President of U.S. Pharmaceutical at McKesson Corporation from October 2012 to October 2017, where he held responsibility for McKesson’s U.S. Pharmaceutical sales, distribution and customer service operations. Mr. Walchirk joined McKesson in April 2001 and held various leadership positions including President of McKesson Specialty Care Solutions and Chief Operating Officer of McKesson U.S. Pharmaceutical. Before joining McKesson, he spent 13 years in medical-surgical distribution and manufacturing with Baxter Healthcare, Allegiance Healthcare and Encompass Group, holding various leadership positions in sales, marketing, operations and business development. Mr. Walchirk brings strategic and leadership experience, including healthcare services and distribution experience, to our Board.

Dennis W. Goedken became our Interim Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in March 2018. Mr. Goedken has spent more than 12 years with Patterson having served as Corporate Controller since 2012, and as Patterson’s Assistant Controller from 1991 to 1998. During his tenure, Mr. Goedken was integrally involved in internal audit, taking the company public and various divestitures and acquisitions. Mr. Goedken currently leads the accounting team and oversees preparation of all SEC filings. Previously, Mr. Goedken held senior finance leadership positions with Ceridian HCM, Inc. and Lifetouch Inc.

Donald J. Zurbay has been appointed to serve as our Chief Financial Officer, effective June 29, 2018. Mr. Zurbay most recently served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at global medical device manufacturer St. Jude Medical, Inc. from August 2012 through the January 2017 acquisition of St. Jude Medical by Abbott Laboratories. At St. Jude Medical, Mr. Zurbay was responsible for all accounting, financial and business development activities. He joined St. Jude Medical in 2003 and held various leadership positions, including Director of Finance and Vice President and Corporate Controller. Prior to joining St. Jude Medical, Mr. Zurbay worked at PricewaterhouseCoopers for five years as an Assurance and Business Advisory Services Senior Manager. Before joining PricewaterhouseCoopers, he was a General Accounting Manager at The Valspar Corporation. Mr. Zurbay started his career at Deloitte & Touche as an auditor in 1989.

Kevin M. Pohlman became President of Patterson Animal Health in July 2017. Mr. Pohlman joined Animal Health International, Inc., which was acquired by Patterson in 2015, in August 2001 and was previously its Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Prior to assuming that role, Mr. Pohlman was President of Corporate Sales and Marketing. Beginning in 2001, Mr. Pohlman held a variety of leadership roles, including Vice President of Dealer Sales with 

14
oversight of the Marketing department until June 2011. Mr. Pohlman began his career with Pohlman Bros. Supply, a family-owned dealer and distributor of dairy equipment, animal health supplies and food plan supplies in Ohio.

Les B. Korsh became Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Patterson in July 2015. Mr. Korsh served as Patterson’s Associate General Counsel since June 2014. Prior to joining Patterson, Mr. Korsh held positions as Vice President and Associate General Counsel for MoneyGram International, Inc. from May 2004 to May 2014, and was a principal in the law firm of Gray Plant Mooty, P.A. from June 1999 to May 2004. He has served as a director of the Patterson Foundation since June 2016.

Andrea Frohning became our Chief Human Resources Officer in May 2018. Ms. Frohning joined Patterson from Snyder’s-Lance where she held the role of Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer from March 2016 to March 2018, and was responsible for leading all aspects of the company’s human resources. Prior to her tenure at Snyder’s-Lance, she was Vice President Human Resources at Crane Co. from November 2013 to February 2016. Ms. Frohning also held other human resource managerial positions at Hubbell Inc., General Electric Consumer Finance and Pepsi Bottling Group.

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS