Item 1A. Risk Factors   

Our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.  

The capital and credit markets since 2008 have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Although the economic slowdown that the United States experienced has begun to reverse and the markets have generally improved, business activities across a wide range of industries continue to face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Heightened unemployment levels have further increased these difficulties.  

A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business:  

   •    A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us;  

20  

Table of Contents 

   •    A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate;  

   •    An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill;  

   •    A decrease in interest income from variable rate loans, due to potential reductions in interest rates; and  

   •    An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.  

Overall, during the past three years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business. Although the general business environment has shown some improvement, there can be no assurance that it will continue to improve. If economic conditions worsen or remain volatile, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Market developments may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.  

Dramatic declines in the housing market during recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate-related loans and resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions.  

Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry.  

Our status as a non-investment grade issuer and any future reductions in our credit ratings may increase our funding costs or place limitations on business activities related to providing credit support to customers.  

The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Over the past two years, all of the major ratings agencies downgraded Regions’ and Regions Bank’s credit ratings, and many of our ratings remain on negative watch or negative outlook. Negative watch, negative outlook or other similar terms mean that a future downgrade is possible. Most recently, Regions’ Senior ratings were downgraded to Ba3, BB+, BBB- and BBB by Moody’s Investor Services, Standard & Poor’s, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service, respectively. Our ratings with Moody’s Investor Services and Standard & Poor’s are below investment grade.  

In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. The ratings assigned to Regions and Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any ratings agency will take action to downgrade Regions, Regions Bank or both in the future.  

21  

Table of Contents 

The decreases in our credit rating over the past two years, our status as a non-investment grade issuer and any future decrease in our credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies could impact our access to the capital markets or short-term funding or increase our financing costs, and thereby adversely affect Regions’ financial condition and liquidity. Where Regions Bank is providing forms of credit support such as letters of credit, standby lending arrangements or other forms of credit support, this recent decline and future declines may cause customers of Regions to seek replacement credit support from a higher rated institution and may limit our ability to compete for future business. Our counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade and have the ability to terminate or may be less likely to engage in transactions with us, or may only engage in transactions with us at a substantially higher cost. We cannot predict whether customer relationships or opportunities for future relationships could be adversely affected by customers who choose to do business with a higher rated institution. The inability to retain customers or to effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on Regions’ business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Additionally, ratings agencies have themselves been subject to scrutiny arising from the financial crisis such that the rating agencies may make or may be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices. Such changes may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of our securities or other securities in which we have an economic interest.  

The value of our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our operating results and regulatory capital ratios.  

As of December 31, 2010, Regions had approximately $1.4 billion in net deferred tax assets, of which $424 million was disallowed when calculating regulatory capital. Applicable banking regulations permit us to include these deferred tax assets, up to a maximum amount, when calculating Regions’ regulatory capital to the extent these assets will be realized based on future projected earnings within one year of the report date. The ability to realize these deferred tax assets during any year also includes the ability to apply these assets to offset any taxable income during the two previous years. Unless we anticipate generating sufficient taxable income in the future, we may be unable to include additional amounts related to our deferred tax assets as part of our regulatory capital. The inability to include deferred tax assets in our regulatory capital could significantly reduce our regulatory capital ratios.  

Additionally, our deferred tax assets are subject to an evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that they will be realized for financial statement purposes. In making this determination we consider all positive and negative evidence available including the impact of recent operating results as well as potential carryback of tax to prior years taxable income, reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and projected earnings within the statutory tax loss carryover period. We have determined that the deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized at December 31, 2010 (except for $30 million related to state deferred tax assets for which we have established a valuation allowance). If we were to conclude that a significant portion of our deferred tax assets were not more likely than not to be realized, the required valuation allowance could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.  

We have been the subject of increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation.  

We and certain of our subsidiaries have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to their business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We and certain of our subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding their business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  

In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally,  

22  

Table of Contents 

 lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders.  

Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us or our subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant harm to our reputation. Additional information relating to litigation affecting Regions and our subsidiaries is discussed in Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Further disruptions in the residential real estate market could adversely affect our performance.  

As of December 31, 2010, investor real estate loans secured by land, single-family and condominium properties, plus home equity loans secured by second liens in Florida represented approximately 8 percent of our total loan portfolio. These portions of our loan portfolio have been under pressure for over three years and, due to weakening credit quality, we have increased our loan loss provision and our total allowance for credit losses. In addition, we have implemented several measures to support the management of these sections of the loan portfolio, including reassignment of experienced, key relationship managers to focus on work-out strategies for distressed borrowers.  

While we expect that these actions will help mitigate the overall effects of the downward credit cycle, the weaknesses in these sections of our loan portfolio are expected to continue well into 2011. Accordingly, it is anticipated that our non-performing asset and charge-off levels will remain elevated.  

Further, the effects of recent mortgage market challenges, combined with decreases in residential real estate market prices and demand, could result in further price reductions in home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the residential real estate and construction loans that we hold, as well as loan originations and gains on sale of real estate and construction loans. Specifically, a significant portion of our residential mortgages and commercial real estate loan portfolios are composed of borrowers in the Southeastern United States, in which certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. For example, prices of Florida properties remain under significant pressure, with high unemployment levels relative to periods prior to 2008 and the continuing impact of the recent real estate downturn on the general economy. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own upon foreclosing on a loan.  

Continuing weakness in the commercial real estate market could adversely affect our performance.  

The fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector remain weak, under continuing pressure from reduced asset values, rising vacancies and reduced rents. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 19 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of investor real estate loans. Investor real estate loans secured by land, single-family and condominiums continue to be impacted by declining property values, especially in areas where Regions has significant lending activities, including Florida and north Georgia. The properties securing income-producing investor real estate loans are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan. The borrower’s ability to repay the loan is instead reliant upon additional leasing through the life of the loan or the borrower’s successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower’s business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space may remain at elevated levels in 2011. High vacancy rates could result in rents falling further over the next several quarters. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in the fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market and the deterioration of one or more loans we have made. Any such deterioration could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated.  

Our success depends to a certain extent on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by Regions Bank in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on Regions Bank’s commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of these geographical areas for over three years have had a negative impact on the financial results of our banking operations and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any future adverse changes may also negatively effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Improvements in economic indicators disproportionately affecting the financial services industry may lag improvements in the general economy.  

The improvement of certain economic indicators, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, may continue to lag behind improvement in the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly. For example, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by twelve to eighteen months. Our clients include entities active in these industries. Furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Negative perceptions associated with our continued participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors and compete for new business opportunities.  

On November 14, 2008, we issued and sold 3,500,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant to purchase up to 48,253,677 shares of our common stock to the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP. Several financial institutions which also participated in the CPP (including some banks considered to be our peer banks) have exited, or have applied for permission to exit, the program. In order to repurchase one or both securities, in whole or in part, we must establish that we have satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the U.S. Treasury. There can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase these securities from the U.S. Treasury. Our customers, employees and counterparties in our current and future business relationships may draw negative implications regarding the strength of Regions as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the CPP following the exit of one or more of our competitors or other financial institutions. Any such negative perceptions may impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  

The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA and its implementing regulations may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees.  

Because we have not yet repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment, we remain subject to the restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury released its interim final rule implementing the provisions of the ARRA and limiting the compensation practices at institutions in which the U.S. Treasury is invested. Financial institutions which have repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the ARRA and its implementing regulations. Due to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have exited the CPP to retain and attract high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  

24  

Table of Contents 

Our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s CPP imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and access the equity capital markets.  

Prior to November 14, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock purchased by the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the agreement pursuant to which such securities were sold, among other things, limits the payment of dividends on our common stock to a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share without prior regulatory approval, limits our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards), and grants the holders of such securities certain registration rights which, in certain circumstances, impose lock-up periods during which we would be unable to issue equity securities. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. In addition, unless we are able to redeem the preferred stock prior to November 15, 2013, the dividends on the preferred stock will increase substantially, from 5 percent ($175 million annually) to 9 percent ($315 million annually).  

We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations.  

The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state law. Regions and Regions Bank are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Superintendent of Banking of the State of Alabama. These regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance fund, and not our shareholders. These regulations govern matters ranging from the regulation of certain debt obligations, changes in the control of bank holding companies and state-chartered banks, and the maintenance of adequate capital to the general business operations and financial condition of Regions Bank, including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, to the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law. Additionally, certain subsidiaries of Regions, such as Morgan Keegan, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, FINRA and state securities and insurance regulators, and our non-bank subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve.  

As a result, we are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous review and frequently change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, Regions Bank and our subsidiaries. Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under the “Capital Ratios” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on our operations.  

The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, implements a variety of far-reaching changes and has been called the most sweeping reform of the financial services industry since the 1930s. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will directly affect our ability to conduct our business including:  

   •    Imposition of higher prudential standards, including more stringent risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements, and numerous other requirements on “systemically significant institutions,” currently defined to include, among other things, all bank holding companies with assets of at least $50 billion (which would include Regions);  

25  

Table of Contents 

   •    Establishment of the FSOC to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight of large financial firms;  

   •    Mandates requiring the Federal Reserve to establish standards for determining whether interchange fees charged by certain financial institutions are reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by such institutions;  

   •    Imposition of additional costs and fees, including fees to be set by the Federal Reserve and charged to “systemically significant institutions” to cover the cost of regulating such institutions and any FDIC assessment made to cover the costs of any regular or special examination of Regions or its affiliates;  

   •    Establishment of the CFPB with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws;  

   •    Application to bank holding companies of regulatory capital requirements similar to those applied to banks, which requirements exclude, on a phase-out basis, all trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock from Tier 1 capital (except for preferred stock issued under the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”), such as the Series A Preferred Stock, which will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital as long as it remains outstanding); and  

   •    Establishment of new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages.  

Many provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule-making and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. As a result, it is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because the implementation of many concepts is left to regulatory agencies. For example, the CFPB is given the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers and is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators.  

The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, including additional Tier 1 capital, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition.  

We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future; such capital may be dilutive to our existing shareholders or may not be available when needed or at all.  

We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The recent economic slowdown and loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including, but not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Additionally, our debt ratings are currently not investment grade according to some credit ratings agencies. As a non-investment grade issuer, our cost of funding and access to the capital markets may be further limited.  

We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, our status as a non-investment grade issuer, or a further downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings.  

Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums we will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. High levels of bank failures over the past three years and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put pressure on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates on insured institutions, charged a special assessment to all insured institutions as of June 30, 2009 and required banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums on December 30, 2009. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments. Further, the FDIC recently increased the DIF’s target reserve ratio to 2.0 percent of insured deposits following the Dodd-Frank Act’s elimination of the 1.5 percent cap on the DIF’s reserve ratio. Additional increases in our assessment rate may be required in the future to achieve this targeted reserve ratio. These recent increases in deposit assessments and any future increases, required prepayments or special assessments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Additionally, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC must amend its regulations regarding assessment for federal deposit insurance to base such assessments on the average total consolidated assets of the insured institution during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. Currently, we are assessed only on deposit balances, and this change may result in a substantial increase in the base to which the assessment rate is applied. The FDIC adopted a rule implementing this change, as well as adopting a revised risk-based assessment calculation in February 2011. The FDIC has also proposed a rule tying assessment rates of FDIC-insured institutions to the institution’s employee compensation programs. The exact nature and cumulative effect of these recent changes are not yet known, but they are expected to increase the amount of premiums we must pay for FDIC insurance. Any such increase may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense.  

All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates or products other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  

We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements.  

Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital which each of Regions and Regions Bank must maintain. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In light of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements contained in the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee and implemented by the Federal Reserve, we likely will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards on us cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including the treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. These requirements, however, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For more  

27  

Table of Contents 

 information concerning our compliance with capital requirements, see the “Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important non-bank financial company were triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund.  

The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new mechanism, the OLA, for liquidation of systemically important nonbank financial companies, including bank holding companies. The OLA is administered by the FDIC and is based on the FDIC’s bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two-thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk-based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions. Any such assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Proposed rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect our operations.  

The Dodd-Frank Act gives the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for transactions in which a person uses certain types of debit cards, requiring that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to such transaction, subject to a possible adjustment to account for costs incurred in connection with the issuer’s fraud prevention policies. On December 16, 2010, the Federal Reserve requested comment on a proposed rule which would take effect on July 21, 2011 and which, if enacted, would significantly impact the amount of interchange fees collected by Regions Bank. The proposed rule contains two alternative restrictions on the permissible level of interchange fees: a uniform restriction of 12 cents per transaction and an issuer-specific restriction containing a safe harbor of 7 cents per transaction and a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions, and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than the 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserve’s study on interchange transactions. The restrictions on interchange fees contained in the proposed rule would be applicable to all debit card issuers who, together with their affiliates, possess more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank, and do not include adjustments associated with costs resulting from compliance with the issuer’s fraud prevention policies, which are expected to be included at a later date.  

The proposed rule would also prohibit issuers and payment card networks from restricting the number of payment card networks on which an electronic debit transaction may be processed to: (1) one network; or (2) two or more networks that are owned, controlled or operated by affiliates or networks affiliated with the issuer. To implement the network exclusivity restrictions of the proposed rule, the Federal Reserve has offered two alternative methods for comment. One alternative (Alternative A) prohibits networks and issuers from limiting the number of payment card networks available for processing an electronic debit transaction to fewer than two unaffiliated networks, regardless of the means by which a transaction may be authorized. The other alternative (Alternative B) prohibits networks and issuers from limiting the number of networks available for processing an electronic debit transaction to fewer than two unaffiliated networks for each method by which a transaction may be authorized. In the event the Federal Reserve adopts Alternative B, considerable costs and immense operational complexity will be associated with its implementation.  

In 2010, Regions Bank collected $346 million in debit card income, and without mitigating actions this amount could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Bank’s revenues resulting from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of  

28  

Table of Contents 

 current levels, absent any mitigating actions, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.  

We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. Due to losses recorded at Regions Bank during 2009 and 2010, under the Federal Reserve’s rules, Regions Bank may not be able to pay dividends to us in the near term without first obtaining regulatory approval. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the “Stockholders’ Equity” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.  

If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected.  

As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporate borrowers and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets.  

We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions.  

The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.  

As of December 31, 2010, we had $5.6 billion of goodwill and $385 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. Additionally, if the fair values of our net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our Banking/Treasury reporting unit, we may also have to take charges related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance.  

Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities.  

Our current one-year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive, meaning that an immediate or gradual increase in interest rates would likely have a positive cumulative impact on Regions’ twelve-month net interest income. Alternatively, an immediate or gradual decrease in rates over a twelve-month period would likely have a negative impact on twelve-month net interest income. However, like most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the “Net Interest Income and Margin” and “Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk” sections of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Additionally, Regions’ portfolio segments, particularly investor real estate, include products where terms are tied to benchmark interest rates, such as LIBOR. An increasing interest rate environment would increase debt service requirements for borrowers with these types of products. Such increases may impact the borrowers’ ability to pay as contractually obligated.  

The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions.  

Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities.  

The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. See the “Securities” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Hurricanes and other weather-related events, as well as man-made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.  

A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely  

30  

Table of Contents 

 impact the value of any collateral held by us. Man-made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as the recent Gulf oil spill, could have similar effects. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The severity and impact of future hurricanes, droughts and other weather-related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes, droughts and other weather-related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success.  

Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated certain restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to open branches across state lines, a change which may also cause competition among financial services companies to intensify. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, Regions’ ability to market its products and services and to retain or compete for new business may be adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected.  

Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services.  

Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.  

Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.  

Technology and other changes are allowing parties to use alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Any resulting loss of deposits could impact our cost of funding, and, together with any lost income generated by this loss of business, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry,  

31  

Table of Contents 

 including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability.  

The results of operations of Regions are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open-market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, ongoing military operations around the world, including those in response to terrorist attacks, may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects, any of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands.  

The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected.  

We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can result in negative public opinion about our other business. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings.  

If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to  

32  

Table of Contents 

 parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.  

Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially.  

We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.  

Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations.  

Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits which could force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding.  

An outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, prefer to do business with our competitors, or otherwise could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, as a result of any outflow of deposits, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in greater dilution of our existing shareholders. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.  

Our reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates.  

Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes.  

Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.  

From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements.  

We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.  

In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects on the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations.  

We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property.  

In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach.  

We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.  

34  

Table of Contents 

The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate.  

The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by:  

   •    Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors;  

   •    Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally;  

   •    Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations;  

   •    The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us;  

   •    Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors;  

   •    Expectations of or actual equity dilution;  

   •    Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and  

   •    Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility.  

Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.  

We may not pay dividends on your common stock.  

Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail in the “Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock” section of Item 5. “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future.  

Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after-tax net income.  

Anti-takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value.  

Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors’ approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the  

35  

Table of Contents 

 acquirer “controls” the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the “Supervision and Regulation” section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer.  

Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of your ownership.  

We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders.  

Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios.  

Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by “5 percent shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three-year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions’ stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing “5 percent shareholders” or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

None.  

 Item 2. Properties