Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

INTRODUCTION  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  

Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporation’s (“Regions” or “the Company”) business, particularly regarding its 2010 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

   •    Credit—The distressed economy has increased the risk of default for many loan types. Regions entered 2008 with a concentration in investor real estate products in its Southeastern footprint. Loans extended to real estate developers or investors where repayment depends on sales of real estate, especially those loans secured by land, single-family developments and condominiums, experienced the most credit pressure. Income producing investor real estate, including loans secured by multi-family and retail developments, also came under pressure. Additionally, the risk profile of home equity products, particularly second lien mortgages in Florida, increased as real estate values fell and unemployment increased in that state. In 2010, credit risk began to moderate. However, an elevated provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion was the catalyst for the net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010. Internally criticized loans and total non-accrual loans while still elevated, migrated in favorable directions during 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions’ footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. Management has therefore maintained the allowance for credit losses at $3.3 billion to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:  

   •    2010 Overview discussion in MD&A  

   •    Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A  

   •    Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non-Interest Expense section of MD&A  

   •    Loans discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A  

   •    Credit Risk section of MD&A  

   •    Note 5 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements  

   •    Liquidity—At the end of 2010, Regions had interest-bearing deposits in other banks of $4.9 billion, which primarily consist of deposits at the Federal Reserve. Additionally, the loan-to-deposit ratio was 88 percent. Regions’ policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Company’s funding and contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $16.6 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $1.2 billion based on available collateral at the same date. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. Management believes the  

41  

Table of Contents 

     Company’s liquidity position is solid and appropriate. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:  

   •    Discussion of Short-Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A  

   •    Discussion of Long-Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A  

   •    Ratings section of MD&A  

   •    Liquidity Risk section of MD&A  

   •    Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements  

   •    Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements  

   •    Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements  

   •    Interest Rate Risk—In the fourth quarter of 2010, the net interest margin expanded to 3.00 percent, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products. Deposit costs decreased from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, and stood at 0.64 percent for the fourth quarter of 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, non-performing asset levels, and maintenance of conservative balance sheet liquidity levels. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity undertaken to further the Company’s capital and liquidity goals. Over the longer term, the eventual rise of benchmark interest rates will have a favorable impact on the net interest margin. The Company entered into an additional series of interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk to interest income if rates continue to remain low in the near term. These swaps offer this protection while reducing asset sensitivity through 2012. Management's 2009 decision to de-risk the securities portfolio also impacts the net interest margin. At December 31, 2010, the securities portfolio almost exclusively consisted of agency guaranteed residential mortgage-backed securities. Management expects to achieve a higher margin over the long term as excess liquidity is reinvested, the securities portfolio is repositioned, disciplined loan pricing is emphasized, the composition of the loan portfolio is migrated toward more consumer products and an advantageous deposit mix is maintained. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:  

   •    2010 Overview discussion in MD&A  

   •    Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A  

   •    Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A  

   •    Regulatory Capital—Regions’ ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2010, Regions’ Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios were 12.40 percent and 7.85 percent, respectively. On a Basel III pro forma basis, the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions’ current understanding of the guidelines, are 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, respectively, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. Regions’ capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:  

   •    2010 Overview discussion in MD&A  

   •    Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A  

   •    Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements  

42  

Table of Contents 

GENERAL  

The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 2010, 2009 and 2008; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted.  

Regions’ profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non-interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest-bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions’ net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non-interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage, investment banking, capital markets, and trust activities, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, insurance activities, and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non-interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, including income taxes. In 2010, Regions’ non-interest expense included a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (“Morgan Keegan”). In 2008, Regions’ non-interest expense included a non-cash $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge.  

Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions’ market areas.  

Regions’ business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations.  

Acquisitions  

The acquisitions of banks and other financial services companies have historically contributed significantly to Regions’ growth. The acquisitions of other financial services companies have also allowed Regions to better diversify its revenue stream and to offer additional products and services to its customers. From time to time, Regions evaluates potential bank and non-bank acquisition candidates.  

In February, 2009, Regions acquired from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) approximately $285 million in deposits from a failed bank headquartered in Henry County, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the bank’s four branches and provides banking services to its former customers.  

In September, 2008, Regions acquired from the FDIC approximately $900 million of deposits, primarily time deposits, from a failed bank headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the bank’s four branches and provides banking services to its former customers.  

On January 1, 2008, Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired certain assets of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc., a multi-line insurance agency headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi. In addition, in December 2008, Morgan Keegan acquired Revolution Partners, LLC, a Boston-based investment banking boutique specializing in mergers and acquisitions and private capital advisory services for the technology industry.  

43  

Table of Contents 

During 2007, Regions acquired two financial services entities. On January 2, 2007, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. acquired certain assets of Miles & Finch, Inc., a multi-line insurance agency headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana. On June 15, 2007, Morgan Keegan acquired Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC, an investment banking and financial advisory firm headquartered in New York, New York.  

On November 4, 2006, Regions merged with AmSouth Bancorporation (“AmSouth”), headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. In the stock-for-stock merger, 0.7974 shares of Regions were exchanged, on a tax-free basis, for each share of AmSouth common stock. AmSouth had total assets of approximately $58 billion (including goodwill) and operated in six states at the time of the merger. This transaction was accounted for as a purchase of 100 percent of the voting interests of AmSouth by Regions and, accordingly, financial results for periods prior to November 4, 2006 have not been restated.  

Regions incurred approximately $822 million in one-time pre-tax merger-related costs to bring the two companies together. Regions recorded $185 million of such costs in goodwill during 2006. This amount was subsequently adjusted down by $3 million in 2007. The majority of merger costs flowed directly through the statements of operations. These included $201 million, $351 million, and $89 million in pre-tax merger expenses during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No merger expenses related to the AmSouth transaction were recorded after the third quarter of 2008.  

Dispositions  

During the first quarter of 2007, through sales to three separate buyers, Regions completed the divestiture of 52 former AmSouth branches having approximately $2.7 billion in deposits and $1.7 billion in loans. These divestitures were required in markets where the merger may have affected competition.  

On March 30, 2007, Regions sold its wholly-owned non-conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst Corporation (“EquiFirst”) for an initial sales price of approximately $76 million. The business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Resolution of the sales price was completed in October 2008, and resulted in an after-tax loss of approximately $10 million. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has approximately $51 million in book value of “sub-prime” loans retained from the disposition of EquiFirst in 2007, down from the year-end 2009 balance of $61 million. Management has considered the credit quality of these loans in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses.  

Business Segments  

Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments:  

Banking/Treasury  

Regions’ primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions’ banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state-chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Company’s securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2010, Regions’ banking and treasury operations reported a loss of $433 million, as credit and credit-related costs continued to pressure this business segment.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust  

Regions provides investment banking, brokerage and trust services in 321 offices of Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Its lines of business include private client, retail brokerage services, fixed-income capital markets, equity capital markets, trust, and asset management. In 2010, Morgan Keegan’s operations reported a loss of $116 million, which was driven by a $200 million regulatory charge.  

Insurance  

Regions provides insurance-related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 25 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The insurance segment also offers credit-related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $10 million of net income in 2010.  

Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations  

The reportable segment designated Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations includes merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition and the results of EquiFirst for the periods presented. These amounts are excluded from other reportable segments because management reviews the results of the other reportable segments excluding these items.  

During 2010, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present management’s current view of the segments. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2010 presentation. See Note 22 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions’ business segments.  

45  

Table of Contents 

Table 1—Financial Highlights  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation.  

 (2) NM—Not meaningful  

46  

Table of Contents 

2010 OVERVIEW  

Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million or $0.62 per diluted common share in 2010. Significant drivers of 2010 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income.  

Net interest income was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin (taxable-equivalent basis) was 2.90 percent in 2010, compared to 2.67 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 60 basis points in the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 30 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long-term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed-rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short-term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in other low cost checking, savings and money market products.  

Although the net interest margin increased in 2010, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist, including those directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include a continuation of a low level of interest rates, higher costs of new debt issuances, elevated non-performing asset levels and costs associated with managing to prudent levels of liquidity risk. The combination of these factors may even lead to a modest decline in margin in the near term from 3.00 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity to further the Company’s capital and liquidity goals. However, Regions’ balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably.  

Net charge-offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moves through the credit cycle as well as the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions which increased charge-offs and decreased average loan balances. Non-performing assets decreased $494 million between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 to $3.9 billion.  

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in management’s judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased to $2.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2009. The allowance for credit losses was $3.3 billion, or 3.93 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.52 percent of loans, at December 31, 2009. The stabilization in the level of the allowance reflects moderating credit trends.  

Non-interest income decreased to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.8 billion in 2009. The year-over-year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Company’s issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives, also drove the year-over-year decline. The decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non-interest income attributable to service charges and brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income. The impact of Regulation E on service charges was less than anticipated; however, the Company expects increased pressure on fee-based revenues in light of pending regulatory changes. See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” and Table 5 “Non-Interest Income” for further details.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Non-interest expense from continuing operations totaled $5.0 billion in 2010 compared to $4.8 billion in 2009. The year-over-year increase was driven largely by a $200 million nondeductible regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan, losses on early extinguishments of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances, and increased FDIC premiums. Higher salaries and employee benefits and credit-related costs such as other-real-estate-owned expense also contributed to the increase. These items were partially offset by lower other-than-temporary impairment on securities and a 2009 FDIC special assessment which did not repeat in 2010. See Table 8 “Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP Reconciliation)” for further details.  

Total loans decreased by $7.8 billion, or 8.6 percent in 2010, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage, home equity, and indirect loans also contributed to the year-over-year decrease primarily resulting from consumers’ decisions to de-leverage. Total deposits decreased $4.1 billion in 2010 to $94.6 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to maturities of time deposits. However, low-cost customer deposits increased $4.7 billion, or 7 percent in 2010.  

Regions’ Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent at December 31, 2010. Pro forma calculations indicate that the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions’ current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent.  

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) which was signed into law on July 21, 2010 provides some level of clarity regarding how the industry and Regions’ specific business will be affected moving forward. However, provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule-making and implementation, and it will be some time before the business implications are completely defined. Proposed rules regarding regulation of interchange income would have a significant negative impact on non-interest revenues if adopted as drafted. In 2010, Regions collected $346 million in debit card income. Based on the current proposed rule, absent any mitigating actions, revenues from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, assuming a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Non-interest expenses (e.g., FDIC insurance premiums, compliance costs, and other regulatory fees) will also be negatively impacted by provisions included in the legislation. Additionally, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three-year period beginning in 2013.  

Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges, including “efficiency ratio”, “average tangible common stockholders’ equity”, end of period “tangible common stockholders’ equity” and “Tier 1 common equity”, all of which are non-GAAP. Merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures, including “earnings per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges” and “return on average tangible common stockholders’ equity, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges” provides a meaningful base for period-to-period and company-to-company comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions’ business, because management does not consider these charges to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures as follows:  

   •    Preparation of Regions’ operating budgets  

   •    Monthly financial performance reporting  

   •    Monthly close-out “flash” reporting of consolidated results (management only)  

   •    Presentations to investors of Company performance  

48  

Table of Contents 

Regions believes that presenting these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition.  

The efficiency ratio, which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non-interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully tax equivalent basis. Management uses the efficiency ratio to monitor performance and believes this measure provides meaningful information to investors. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Net interest income on a fully-taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non-interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue. Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), which is the denominator for the efficiency ratio. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions’ business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management.  

Tangible common stockholders’ equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank’s capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserve’s Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”), these regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions’ capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders’ equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions’ capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions’ capital adequacy on these same bases.  

Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the risk-based capital framework, a bank’s balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.  

Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies and procedures in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non-GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period-to-period comparisons. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are a reduction to earnings and stockholders’ equity).  

49  

Table of Contents 

The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to net income (loss) available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non-GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non-GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non-interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non-interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), 5) computation of adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), 6) computation of the efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of return on average assets (GAAP) to return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairments and regulatory charges (non-GAAP), 8) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders’ equity with and without merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non-GAAP), and 9) a reconciliation of stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP).  

Table 2—GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

50  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

51  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation.  

 (2) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses (“allowance”) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect management’s judgment of probable credit losses  

52  

Table of Contents 

 inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors are included in the “Allowance for Credit Losses” section within the discussion of credit risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 5 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.  

The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions’ estimate of the allowance and results of operations.  

Management’s estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individual’s credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on all pools of loans with similar risk characteristics would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $180 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer-related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $55 million.  

Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts.  

The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome.  

Fair Value Measurements  

A portion of the Company’s assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives (net). From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans.  

Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to “normal” market activity, management’s objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third-party financial investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates.  

53  

Table of Contents 

A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company-specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Company’s own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability.  

See Note 21 “Fair Value Measurements” to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value.  

Intangible Assets  

Regions’ intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (“goodwill”) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles). Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009 and is allocated to each of Regions’ reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 “Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value.  

A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after-tax valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit.  

The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20-year risk-free rate, 5-year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company-specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in discount rate from the fourth quarter 2009 test to the first quarter 2010 test was driven primarily by a reduction in the company-specific risk premium, which was lowered as a result of updated forecasts that reduced uncertainty from the projected cash flows.  

54  

Table of Contents 

In the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions reduced the company-specific component of its discount rate to reflect several positive factors that occurred during the period, as well as factors which reduced the uncertainty of future cash flow projections. Specifically, the Company earned a profit and experienced improving credit metrics, including lower non-performing assets and lower gross inflows of non-performing loans than in the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, Regions experienced lower levels of criticized loans, a leading indicator of loan losses (see Note 5 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements for further details, including a definition of “criticized loans.”) The Company also completed its three-year strategic plan, which reflected improving credit trends and included additional clarity around future cash flows that were driven by a proposed rule issued by the Federal Reserve governing debit card income and the announcements in the fourth quarter of 2010 and January of 2011 of pending non-distressed, orderly sales of financial institutions of comparable size and/or footprint to Regions. Additionally, the Basel Committee finalized its capital framework, which provided additional clarity on future equity requirements that impact the projections of future cash flows. In the judgment of management, these factors outweighed the downgrades of Regions’ debt to below investment grade during the fourth quarter of 2010, as well as new rules which are expected to increase FDIC insurance premiums.  

In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and/or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Company’s capital planning processes.  

Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 8 “Intangible Assets” for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 21 “Fair Value Measurements” to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities.  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions performed its goodwill impairment tests for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, which resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill of approximately $4.7 billion and a goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion. Throughout 2009 and continuing into the first half of 2010, in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions’ loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non-performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. The long-term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 8 “Intangible Assets” of the consolidated financial statements). The results of these calculations continued to indicate that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $11.9 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting unit’s assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and others were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. The after-tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write-downs of assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit. Since the second quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the value of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and/or regulatory actions; increasing FDIC premiums; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of unemployment in excess of 10 percent beyond 2012; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 14 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act; and/or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates beyond 2012.  

The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance reporting units:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value.  

 (b) Represents a 53 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.0x and 1.3x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.0x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (c) For Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust, represents the percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.6x and 2.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.6x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details.  

 (d) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 17.3x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income and is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details.  

56  

Table of Contents 

The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change.  

Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles, are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset, such as loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent another identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable; an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions’ operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates and discount rates. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 6.1 percent ($16 million) and 12.7 percent ($34 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 5.6 percent ($15 million) and 10.7 percent ($28 million), respectively.  

The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the “Mortgage Servicing Rights” discussion in the “Balance Sheet” analysis section found later in this report.  

Income Taxes  

Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of other assets in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect management’s estimate of income taxes to be paid or received.  

Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the net deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax-planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre-tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book-tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the “Income Taxes” section found later in this report.  

57  

Table of Contents 

The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. In the event a dispute with a taxing authority arises, the Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to the tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities.  

The Company’s estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

OPERATING RESULTS  

GENERAL  

Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010, compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion in 2009. The lower loss in 2010 was primarily reflective of moderation in credit quality within the Company’s loan portfolio. However, the provision for loan losses remained elevated.  

NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN  

Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions’ principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions’ ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis increased 3 percent to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.4 billion in 2009 despite a decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $125.9 billion in 2009 to $119.3 billion in 2010. The increase in the net interest margin to 2.90 percent in 2010 from 2.67 percent in 2009 was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet size.  

Comparing 2010 to 2009, interest-earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 30 basis points on average. However, interest-bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 60 basis points, which was more than enough improvement in funding costs to offset the drop in interest-earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 30 basis points to 2.58 percent in 2010 as compared to 2.28 percent in 2009.  

Continued low levels of long-term interest rates affected interest-earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of fixed-rate loans and securities. Longer-term rates remained at historical low levels and fluctuated throughout the year. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 4.01 percent to a low of 2.41 percent, and for the year decreased 55 basis points, ending the year at 3.30 percent. Persistently low long-term rates can incent fixed-rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans, often at lower rates of interest. This results in pressure on yields for portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed-rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed-rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010.  

The negative influence of low, long-term interest rates on net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal Funds rate and the Prime Rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2010, essentially unchanged from the previous year-end level. Despite the lack of movement in short-term rates compared to historic lows, deposit costs improved considerably from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.84 percent to 0.43 percent, and yet experienced an increase in average total balance from $21.4 billion in 2009 to $26.8 billion in 2010. The improvement in overall deposit cost was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $32.7 billion in 2009 to $26.2 billion in 2010. Meanwhile, average non-interest bearing customer deposits increased from $20.7 billion in 2009 to $24.0 billion in 2010.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis” presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable-equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread.  

Table 3—Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 1. Loans, net of unearned income include non-accrual loans for all periods presented.  

 2. Interest income includes loan fees of $36 million, $30 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

 3. The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.  

 4. Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest-bearing deposits and non-interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.78 percent, 1.35 percent and 1.91 percent for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Table 4—Volume and Yield/Rate Variances  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Notes:  

 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.  

 2. The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.  

Net interest income and interest-rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the “Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk” section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2010, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $515 million versus $526 million in 2009.  

The mix of interest-earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions’ primary types of interest-earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest-earning assets have historically  

60  

Table of Contents 

 generated larger spreads, for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreement to resell. However, in 2010, the spread on loans remained depressed due to lower interest rates and a higher level of loans on non-accrual status. Average interest-earning assets at December 31, 2010 totaled $119.3 billion, a decrease of $6.6 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2010, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand and run-off of investor real estate.  

Also affecting the interest rate spread was a continued elevated amount of interest-bearing deposits in other banks (included in “other interest-earning assets” in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Company’s liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. Average loans as a percentage of average interest-earning assets were 73 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009. The categories, which are comprised of interest-earning assets, are shown in Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis”.  

The proportion of average interest-earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of management’s efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest-earning vehicles and represented 88 percent for both 2010 and 2009. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2010 was in interest-earning assets. Funding for Regions’ interest-earning assets comes from interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest-earning assets funded by interest-bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest-earning assets funded by average interest-bearing liabilities was 77 percent in 2010 and 80 percent in 2009, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks.  

Table 4 “Volume and Yield/Rate Variances” provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income.  

Provision for Loan Losses  

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in management’s judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion and net charge-offs were $2.8 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion and net charge-offs of $2.3 billion in 2009. The decrease in the provision over charge-offs reflects moderating credit quality.  

For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the “Risk Management” section found later in this report. See also Note 5 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.  

NON-INTEREST INCOME  

Non-interest income represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest-earning assets. Table 5 “Non-Interest Income” provides a detail of the components of non-interest income. Non-interest income totaled $3.5 billion in 2010 compared to $3.8 billion in 2009. The decrease in non-interest income is primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions in 2009. However, this decrease in revenue was offset by a reduction in the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in service charges income, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income, and securities gains. Offsetting these increases, mortgage income declined, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives. Non-interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable-equivalent basis) was 44 percent in 2010 and 2009.   

61  

Table of Contents 

Table 5—Non-Interest Income  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service Charges on Deposit Accounts  

Income from service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was due to a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued into 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. Service charges will continue to be negatively impacted going forward by the policy changes and new regulations.  

Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, will be impacted by the Federal Reserve’s rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd-Frank Act. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would establish debit card interchange fee standards based upon one of two proposed alternatives. One alternative is an issuer-specific standard with a safe harbor set at 7 cents per transaction. The other alternative is a stand-alone cap set at 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserve’s study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $346 million in 2010 and without mitigating actions could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Bank’s revenues from interchange fees would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse affect on Regions’ business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Brokerage, Investment Banking and Capital Markets and Trust Department Income  

Regions’ primary source of brokerage, investment banking and capital markets and trust revenue is its subsidiary, Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegan’s revenues are predominantly recorded in the brokerage, investment banking and capital markets, as well as trust department income lines of the consolidated statements of operations, while a smaller portion is reported in other non-interest income. As of December 31, 2010, Morgan Keegan employed approximately 1,200 financial advisors. Morgan Keegan contributed $1.3 billion in total revenues in both 2010 and 2009.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Total brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenues increased 7 percent to $1.1 billion in 2010 from $989 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the investment banking and private client brokerage services divisions. Results for 2010 reflect strength in these divisions, which is due in part to strategic acquisitions that were made in specialized industries in recent years. Customer and trust assets under management were approximately $80.0 billion and $77.0 billion, respectively, at year-end 2010 compared to approximately $75.5 billion and $70.0 billion, respectively, at year-end 2009. The rise in assets under management is primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end-of-period asset valuations than in the prior year.  

Revenues from the private client division increased 15 percent to $476 million, and accounted for 36 percent of Morgan Keegan’s total revenue in 2010, compared to $415 million or 32 percent in 2009. Fixed-income capital markets revenues decreased $38 million to $322 million, as compared to $360 million in 2009, although revenues remained higher than in previous years, driven by institutional customers’ demand for government, mortgage-backed and municipal securities. Equity capital markets revenue was negatively impacted by the financial turmoil beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010. Equity capital markets revenues totaled $55 million in 2010, compared to $59 million in 2009. Investment banking revenues increased $47 million to $151 million as the division had success within its specialized industries, such as oil and gas, healthcare and technology. Trust revenues increased 7 percent to $211 million in 2010, impacted by higher average asset valuations. The asset management division produced $15 million of revenue in 2010 compared to $39 million in 2009, pressured by a lower amount of fees from commissions.  

Morgan Keegan’s net income was negatively affected during 2010 by a $200 million regulatory charge related to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. This charge is nondeductible for income tax purposes. See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

See Note 22 “Business Segment Information” for details of net income contributed by Morgan Keegan for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and Table 6 “Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division” which illustrates Morgan Keegan’s revenues by division for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.  

Table 6—Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

63  

Table of Contents 

Mortgage Income  

Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long-term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million in 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 21 “Fair Value of Financial Instruments” to the consolidated financial statements for further detail.  

Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in brokerage income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations, as illustrated in Table 7.  

Table 7—Categorization of Income Related to Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

At December 31, 2010, Regions’ servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2009, the servicing portfolio totaled $39.7 billion, $23.3 billion of which was serviced for third parties.  

During 2008, the Company sold mortgage servicing rights on approximately $3.4 billion of Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”) loans and recognized a loss of $15 million, including transaction costs. The Company did not sell any mortgage servicing rights in 2010 or 2009.  

Securities Gains (Losses), Net  

Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, as compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. In 2010, the company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. In 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non-agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds and through these measures sold $5.4 billion and incurred some losses on the sales. The Company’s gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Company’s asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the “Securities” section in the “Balance Sheet Analysis” for further discussion.  

64  

Table of Contents 

In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage-backed securities, and recognized a net pre-tax gain of approximately $52 million.  

Leveraged Lease Termination Gains  

A 2008 settlement with the IRS negatively impacted the economics of Regions’ leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2010 and 2009, resulting in gains of $78 million and $587 million, respectively. However, these gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million and $589 million, respectively, resulting in a minimal impact to net income.  

Gain on Early Extinguishment of Debt  

During 2009, Regions completed an exchange of common shares for outstanding 6.625 percent Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (“the Trust”). In connection with this exchange, the Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of junior subordinated debt issued to the Trust. The extinguishment resulted in an increase to non-interest income of $61 million in 2009. For further details, see Note 14 “Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss)” to the consolidated financial statements.  

Visa-Related Gains  

In early 2008, Visa executed an initial public offering (“IPO”) of common stock and, in connection with the IPO, Regions’ ownership interest in Visa was converted into approximately 3.8 million shares of Class B common stock. In late 2008, Regions recognized a $63 million gain upon the redemption of these shares. In 2009, Regions sold its remaining Visa Class B common stock resulting in an $80 million gain. For further details, see Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements.  

Bank-Owned Life Insurance  

Bank-owned life insurance income increased 19 percent to $88 million in 2010, compared to $74 million in 2009. This increase is primarily due to changes in crediting rates related to the insurance policies.  

NON-INTEREST EXPENSE  

The following section contains a discussion of non-interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non-interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non-interest expense in 2010 included a $200 million regulatory charge. Non-interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge, increased $34 million, or 1 percent, to $4.8 billion in 2010. Non-interest expense in 2008 included a $6.0 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge and merger-related charges totaling $201 million.  

Table 8 “Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP reconciliation)” presents major non-interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge, merger-related charges and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Management believes Table 8 is useful in evaluating trends in non-interest expense. Note that merger-related charges as shown in this table relate to Regions’ acquisition of AmSouth in November 2006. See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” and the text preceding it for further discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.  

65  

Table of Contents 

Table 8—Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP reconciliation)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

66  

Table of Contents 

Salaries and Employee Benefits  

Total salaries and employee benefits increased $49 million, or 2 percent, in 2010. The year-over-year increase in salaries and employee benefits cost is due to higher pension and 401(k) expense as explained below. Although salaries and benefits expense increased, headcount was reduced approximately 2 percent in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009.  

Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. New enrollment in the Regions pension plan ended effective December 31, 2000. New enrollment in the legacy AmSouth pension plan ended effective with the merger date, November 4, 2006. Former AmSouth employees enrolled as of November 4, 2006 continue to be active in the plan, but no additional participants will be added. Effective September 30, 2007, the two pension plans merged into one plan. Regions’ 401(k) plan includes a company match of eligible employee contributions. The Company temporarily suspended the pension service credit and the company match for eligible employee contributions in early 2009; however, the Company restored these benefits in January 2010. The temporary suspensions contributed to the increase in salaries and employee benefits in 2010 as compared to 2009. See Note 17 “Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions’ lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. At Morgan Keegan, commissions and incentives are a key component of compensation, which is typical in the brokerage and investment banking industry. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions’ long-term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 “Share-Based Payments” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Net Occupancy Expense  

Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Occupancy expense decreased $6 million, or 1 percent, in 2010 primarily due to charges incurred in 2009 associated with the decision to consolidate 121 branches.  

Furniture and Equipment Expense  

Furniture and equipment expense decreased $7 million to $304 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009.  

Professional and Legal Fees  

Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees decreased $6 million to $303 million in 2010, reflecting a reduction in the level of legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit-related legal costs in 2010. Legal expenses, however, remained elevated in 2010. Refer to Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.  

Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles  

The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $107 million in 2010 compared to $120 million in 2009.  

67  

Table of Contents 

Other Real Estate Owned Expense  

Other real estate owned (“OREO”) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions’ efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. See Note 9 “Foreclosed Properties” to the consolidated financial statements for more information.  

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments (“OTTI”)  

OTTI decreased $73 million during 2010 to $2 million compared to $75 million in 2009. The 2009 charges are net of the non-credit portion recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other-than-temporary impairment charges were minimal in 2010 due to the Company’s efforts to de-risk the portfolio and the resulting portfolio composition. Refer to Note 3 “Securities” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

FDIC Premiums and Special Assessment  

FDIC premiums increased in 2010 by $57 million to $220 million. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC increased the rates banks pay for deposit insurance, while at the same time making adjustments to the system that determines the rate a bank pays the FDIC. Under this and additional proposals, the assessment rate schedule was raised on January 1, 2009. The bank regulatory agencies’ ratings, comprised of Regions Bank’s capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long-term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios are the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums.  

During early 2009, Regions utilized its remaining assessment credits, which had previously offset a substantial portion of premium cost. Regions qualified for a credit of approximately $110 million, which was applied toward premiums in 2009, 2008 and 2007, thereby exhausting the credit. Under existing federal regulations, every FDIC-insured institution will pay some level of deposit insurance assessments regardless of the level of the designated reserve ratio. Regions incurred a $64 million special assessment in 2009 to help replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. Additionally, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay, by December 31, 2009, estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 based on the 2009 fourth quarter assessment rate.  

In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule (the “New Assessment Rule”) to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The New Assessment Rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk-based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the New Assessment Rule is expected to result in an increase in FDIC expense beginning in the second quarter of 2011. For a more detailed discussion of the FDIC insurance assessment methodology and proposed changes, see the “Supervision and Regulation – FDIC Insurance Assessments” section of “Item 1. Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt  

During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre-tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Company’s asset/liability management process.  

Regulatory Charge  

On April 7, 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of securities regulators from Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and South Carolina and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings  

68  

Table of Contents 

 against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions believed that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Morgan Keegan recorded a non-tax deductible $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Settlement negotiations and trial preparations are ongoing. Refer to Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.  

Other Miscellaneous Expenses  

Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit-related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $38 million to $698 million in 2010. The decline in 2010 was driven by various categories, including those listed above.  

INCOME TAXES  

The Company’s income tax benefit for 2010 was $346 million compared to a tax benefit of $171 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 39.1 percent and 14.2 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the nondeductible regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre-tax loss.  

The Company’s effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank-owned life insurance and tax-exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by one-time items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases and expenses that are nondeductible for income tax purposes. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period.  

At December 31, 2010, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.4 billion. Of this amount, $960 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore, do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $427 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $427 million, $92 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2023, and a valuation allowance of $14 million exists against these amounts.  

Management’s determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax-planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below.  

Positive Evidence  

   •    History of earnings—The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 17 of the last 20 years with the prior three years’ results of operations being impacted by unprecedented credit losses. Absent the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008, which had no impact on taxable net income reported on the Company’s tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during that year leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, thus there is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused.  

69  

Table of Contents 

   •    Reversals of taxable temporary differences—The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in the AmSouth merger, can absorb up to approximately $1.0 billion of deferred tax assets.  

   •    Creation of future taxable income—At December 31, 2010, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre-tax earnings and adjusts for book-tax differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax-exempt interest income and bank-owned life insurance, as well as temporary book-tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used in the goodwill impairment test and are sourced from the Company’s economic forecasting process.  

   •    Strong capital position—At December 31, 2010, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.40 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.35 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Company’s Tier 1 common ratio (non-GAAP) was 7.85 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has identified 4 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios.  

   •    Ability to implement tax-planning strategies—The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of appreciated assets. As an example, during 2010, the Company reported net pre-tax gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s portfolio of securities available for sale had $283 million of gross unrealized pre-tax gains which could absorb $108 million of deferred tax assets, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets.  

Negative Evidence  

   •    Cumulative loss position—The Company is currently in a three-year cumulative loss position. Excluding the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008 and the $200 million regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items were nondeductible for tax purposes, the cumulative pre-tax loss position for 2008 through 2010 is $1.8 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $8.5 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to stabilize in future periods. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased $678 million to $2.9 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. Additionally, Regions reported positive net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2010, providing positive evidence regarding the Company’s earnings.  

The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre-tax losses.  

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 19 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes.  

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS  

At December 31, 2010, Regions reported total assets of $132.4 billion compared to $142.3 billion at the end of 2009, a decrease of approximately $10.0 billion or 7 percent. The balance sheet decline reflects a decrease in loans outstanding, primarily investor real estate balances, as well as a decrease in trading account assets.  

70  

Table of Contents 

Loans  

Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 73 percent of average interest-earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 75 percent of average interest-earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2009. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans).  

Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk-adjusted return on capital. However, loan balances have declined between years as a result of decreased loan demand in response to economic pressures and management’s efforts to reduce riskier loan portfolios, such as investor real estate.  

Table 9 illustrates a year-over-year comparison of loans by loan type and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities.  

Table 9—Loan Portfolio  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008.  

71  

Table of Contents 

Table 10—Selected Loan Maturities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Note: Table 10 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans.  

The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio classes in Table 9 and explain variations in balances from the 2009 year-end. See the “Credit Risk” section later in this report for discussion of risk characteristics in these categories and Regions’ management of those risks.  

Commercial—The Commercial category includes commercial and industrial, representing loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner-occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long-term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner-occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2010, total commercial loan balances increased 2 percent, initially driven by growth experienced in certain specialty lending groups such as healthcare and energy in the Texas, Tennessee and Georgia markets. These industries have higher capital needs. Later in 2010, the growth continued more broadly across other categories and markets.  

Investor Real Estate—Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions’ investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single-family and condominium loans) within Regions’ markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income-producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.8 billion from 2009 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Regions’ goal is to reduce the investor real estate portfolio segment below one hundred percent of Regions Bank’s risk-based capital, which would have been approximately $14 billion as of December 31, 2010. A full discussion of these developments is included in the “Credit Risk” section later in this report.  

72  

Table of Contents 

Residential First Mortgage—Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $734 million decline to $14.9 billion in 2010, primarily due to a $965 million sale of residential first mortgages in the fourth quarter of 2010 in order to improve the Company’s capital and liquidity profile. Lower mortgage origination volume due to decreased net new refinance activity in 2010 as compared to 2009 also contributed to the decrease. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. Also, property values continued to decline, new and used home sales remained at historically low levels and credit markets contracted in general. See the “Credit Risk” section later in this report for additional discussion.  

Home Equity—Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower’s residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values as of the time the loan or line is secured directly affect the amount of credit extended and, in addition, changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. The vast majority of Regions’ home equity lending balances was originated through its branch network. During 2010, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $14.2 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Company’s operating footprint. During 2010, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure. Charge-offs during 2010 were elevated, but relatively stable as compared to 2009. The majority of the credit losses from this portfolio are related to loans where the collateral is a second lien located in Florida. A full discussion of these developments is included in the “Credit Risk” section later in this report.  

Indirect—Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third-party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re-entered the indirect auto lending business.  

Other Consumer—Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010, relatively unchanged from the prior year.  

Loans Held for Sale  

At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non-performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, loans held for sale also totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $783 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $411 million of student loans and $317 million of non-performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage and student loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses represents management’s estimate of credit losses inherent in both the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments as of the balance sheet date. The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loans losses, which is recorded as a contra-asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for credit losses totaled $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.2 billion or 3.52 percent at year-end 2009. See “Allowance for Credit Losses” in the “Credit Risk” section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance.  

73  

Table of Contents 

Securities  

Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high-quality mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. Securities represented 18 percent of total assets at December 31, 2010 compared to 17 percent at December 31, 2009. In 2010, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, decreased $787 million, or 3 percent.  

The “Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk” section, found later in this report, further explains Regions’ interest rate risk management practices. The weighted-average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 3.42 percent in 2010 and 4.22 percent in 2009. Table 11 “Securities” illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category.  

Table 11—Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

From time to time, Regions sells securities classified as available for sale as part of the Company’s asset/liability management strategy. As part of this process, in the first quarter of 2010, Regions sold approximately $1.4 billion of residential agency securities available for sale and recognized a gain of approximately $59 million. The proceeds were reinvested into newer issue residential agency securities with slightly longer durations. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions repositioned its agency mortgage-backed securities portfolio in order to mitigate prepayment risk associated with that portfolio. Regions sold approximately $8.2 billion of available for sale securities which primarily consisted of agency mortgage-backed securities. A gain of approximately $333 million was recognized on the sale. Proceeds from the fourth quarter sales were reinvested in similar agency securities with lower coupons and longer durations.  

Regions continually analyzes relative value to the Company across fixed income asset classes. The current portfolio weighting to agency mortgage-backed securities is not optimal over a longer horizon. Agency mortgage-backed securities have an advantageous credit and liquidity profile, but also carry more prepayment risk than other types of securities. Regions expects to prudently balance these benefits and risks by expanding asset classes during 2011 and 2012, as appropriate opportunities arise. 

Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year-end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2009, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $431 million, comprised of $495 million in gross unrealized gains and $64 million in gross unrealized losses.  

74  

Table of Contents 

The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other-than-temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions’ intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2010, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. During 2009, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $75 million of securities impairments, related primarily to non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, equity securities, and a single municipal issuer. See Note 3 “Securities” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage-backed securities, and recognized a net pre-tax gain of approximately $52 million.  

Maturity Analysis—The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2010 was estimated to be 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 1.9 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2009. Table 12 “Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities” provides additional details.  

Table 12—Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Notes:  

 1. The weighted-average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted-average yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable-equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to $0 as of December 31, 2010. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non-deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax-exempt obligations.  

 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above.  

Portfolio Quality—Regions’ investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 99 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2010. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S.  

75  

Table of Contents 

 Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than one percent of total securities at year-end 2010. During 2009, due to the potential for downside price risk, the Company substantially eliminated its exposure in non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities, non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds. This was done in order to reduce credit risk within the portfolio. Regions increased its liquidity availability by reinvesting the proceeds in agency securities, including securities backed by GNMA.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2010, these assets totaled $6.9 billion as compared to $8.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The year-over-year decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in Regions’ interest-bearing deposits in other banks, primarily lower balances in its Federal Reserve Bank account.  

Trading Account Assets  

Trading account assets decreased $1.9 billion to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at market value with changes in market value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. At the end of 2009, Regions increased holdings of U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities held for the purpose of hedging mortgage servicing rights (see Table 7 “Impact of Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments” for further discussion). The Company exited these positions in early 2010, driving the decrease in trading account assets. Table 13 “Trading Account Assets” provides a detail by type of security.  

Table 13—Trading Account Assets  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Premises and Equipment  

Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2010 decreased $99 million to $2.6 billion compared to year-end 2009. This decrease primarily resulted from the depreciation on the premises and equipment.  

Goodwill  

Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Refer to the “Critical Accounting Policies” section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Company’s methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 8 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Refer to Note 21 “Fair Value Measurements” to the consolidated financial statements, for the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment.  

76  

Table of Contents 

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2010 totaled $267 million compared to $247 million at December 31, 2009. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 6 “Servicing of Financial Assets” to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.  

On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions’ current portfolio. See the “Mortgage Income” section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions’ consolidated statement of operations.  

Other Identifiable Intangible Assets  

Other identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of core deposit intangibles, totaled $385 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $503 million at December 31, 2009. The year-over-year decline is mainly the result of amortization. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets. See Note 8 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Other Assets  

Other assets increased $1.5 billion to $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2010. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the increase. Net deferred income tax assets also contributed to the year-over-year increase, a portion of which resulted from sales of available for sale securities, which previously carried a deferred tax liability related to their unrealized gain. The increases were partially offset by amortization of prepaid FDIC premiums and reduced foreclosed properties balances.  

DEPOSITS  

Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions’ ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers’ needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high-quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking.  

Deposits are Regions’ primary source of funds, providing funding for 81 percent of average interest-earning assets in 2010 and 75 percent of average interest-earning assets in 2009. Table 14 “Deposits” details year-over-year deposits on a period-ending basis. Total deposits as of year-end 2010 decreased $4.1 billion, or 4 percent, compared to year-end 2009. The overall decrease in deposits was primarily driven by decreases in customer time deposit accounts as a result of maturities. These decreases were partially offset by increases in domestic money market accounts. There has also been a shift from interest-bearing transaction accounts to non-interest-bearing demand accounts during the year. Regions continues to deepen and retain existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition, new checking products and money market rate offers.  

Customer deposits, which are total deposits excluding deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, decreased by 4 percent to $94.6 billion on an ending basis during 2010. Decreases in customer time deposit accounts were the main source of decline. Growth in domestic money market accounts offset the decline. In 2008, the banking industry experienced very high deposit pricing due to liquidity concerns thereby accentuating pricing pressure on Regions and the industry as a whole. However, in 2009 and continuing into 2010, due to  

77  

Table of Contents 

 additional liquidity in the market, pricing rationale largely returned, enabling Regions to increase its low-cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010.  

Table 14—Deposits  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (“FDIC”) Transaction Account Guarantee (“TAG”) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions’ decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non-interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013.  

Within customer deposits, non-interest-bearing deposits increased $2.5 billion to $25.7 billion, driven by an increase in non-interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses and a mix shift from interest-bearing transaction accounts which decreased 15 percent to $13.4 billion. Non-interest-bearing deposits accounted for approximately 27 percent of total deposits at year-end 2010 as compared to 24 percent at year-end 2009. Savings balances increased $595 million to $4.7 billion, generally reflecting growing savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty.  

Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions’ most significant funding sources. These balances increased 18 percent in 2010 to $27.4 billion or 29 percent of total deposits, compared to 24 percent of total deposits in 2009 and 21 percent of total deposits in 2008. Money market accounts steadily increased throughout 2010. Also, foreign money market accounts decreased $197 million, or 26 percent, to $569 million in 2010.  

Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 28 percent in 2010 to $22.8 billion compared to $31.5 billion in 2009. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 24 percent of total deposits in 2010 compared to 32 percent in 2009.  

Consistent with 2009, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2010 as the Company continued to utilize customer-based funding and other sources. The Company’s choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Company’s particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source.  

78  

Table of Contents 

The sensitivity of Regions’ deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions’ average interest rate paid on interest-bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest-bearing deposits decreased to 1.04 percent in 2010 from 1.73 percent in 2009, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2010. Table 15 “Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More” presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2010 and 2009.  

Table 15—Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS  

See Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2010 and 2009.  

COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES  

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase used for funding purposes totaled $782 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $478 million at year-end 2009. The level of Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase can fluctuate significantly on a day-to-day basis, depending on funding requirements and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings.  

As another source of funding, the Company utilized short-term borrowings through the issuance of FHLB advances. FHLB borrowings are used to satisfy short-term and long-term borrowing needs and can also fluctuate between periods. Short-term FHLB borrowings totaled $500 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The Company continues to utilize FHLB borrowings as a means to reduce overnight funding and diversify into slightly longer-term maturities at preferable rates. See Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings”, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of Regions’ borrowing capacity with the FHLB.  

As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $118 million outstanding in the Federal Reserve’s Treasury, Tax, and Loan Program, compared to $7 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, Regions could borrow a maximum of approximately $16.6 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window. See Note 4 “Loans” to the consolidated financial statements for further detail and discussion of loans pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank at December 31, 2010 and 2009.  

Other short-term borrowings totaled $95 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $0 at December 31, 2009. This balance includes certain lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintains with unaffiliated banks. The lines of credit provided for maximum borrowings of $640 million at December 31, 2010 and $585 million December 31, 2009.  

During 2008, Regions was an active participant in the Federal Reserve’s Term Auction Facility (“TAF”) program, which was designed to address pressures in short-term funding markets, Regions continued to participate in TAF in the first half of 2009 but completely exited the program in July of 2009.  

79  

Table of Contents 

Table 16 “Selected Short-Term Borrowings Data” provides selected information for certain short-term borrowings used for funding purposes for years 2010, 2009, and 2008. In past years, data for Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase for both company-funding purposes and customer-related borrowings was presented in the aggregate. Prior year amounts in Table 16 have been revised to conform to current year presentation.  

Table 16—Selected Short-Term Borrowings Data  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

CUSTOMER-RELATED BORROWINGS  

Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short-term investment opportunities for customers. The balance totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day-to-day basis.  

Regions, through Morgan Keegan, maintains two types of liabilities for its brokerage customers that are classified as short-term borrowings since Morgan Keegan pays its customers interest related to these liabilities. The brokerage customer position liability represents liquid funds in the customers’ brokerage accounts. The short-sale liability represents trading obligations to deliver to customers securities at a predetermined date and price. Balances due to brokerage customers totaled $324 million at December 31, 2010 as compared to $424 million at December 31, 2009. The short-sale liability was $174 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $266 million at December 31, 2009. The balance of these liabilities fluctuates frequently based on customer activity.  

Customer collateral decreased $68 million to $10 million at December 31, 2010 from $78 million at December 31, 2009. This balance includes cash collateral posted by customers related to derivative transactions by swap customers of Morgan Keegan.  

80  

Table of Contents 

LONG-TERM BORROWINGS  

Regions’ long-term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, subordinated notes, senior notes and other long-term notes payable. Total long-term borrowings decreased $5.3 billion to $13.2 billion at December 31, 2010. See Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates.  

Membership in the FHLB system provides access to a source of lower-cost funds. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had total long-term FHLB advances of $3.7 billion, compared to $7.4 billion at December 31, 2009. During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2 billion of FHLB advances, realizing $108 million in pre-tax losses on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the company’s asset/liability management process. The remaining decrease between years was due to maturities. Long-term FHLB structured advances have stated maturities during 2011, but are convertible quarterly at the option of the FHLB. The convertible feature provides that after a specified date in the future, the advances will remain at a fixed rate, or Regions will have the option to either pay off the advance or convert from a fixed rate to a variable rate based on the LIBOR index. The FHLB structured advances had a weighted-average interest rate of 2.5% at December 31, 2010 and 3.1% at December 31, 2009. Other FHLB advances at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 had a weighted-average interest rate of 1.0%, 3.4% and 3.8%, respectively, with maturities of one to nineteen years. FHLB borrowings are contingent upon the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one-to-four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. See Note 4 “Loans” to the consolidated financial statements for loans pledged to the FHLB at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Additionally, membership in the FHLB requires an institution to hold FHLB stock, and Regions held $419 million at December 31, 2010 and $473 million at December 31, 2009. Regions’ borrowing availability with the FHLB as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $1.2 billion.  

As of December 31, 2010, Regions had outstanding subordinated notes totaling $4.3 billion, essentially unchanged from December 31, 2009. Regions’ subordinated notes consist of ten issues with interest rates ranging from 4.85% to 7.75%. All issuances of these notes are, by definition, subordinated and subject in right of payment of both principal and interest to the prior payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which is generally defined as all indebtedness and other obligations of the Company to its creditors, except subordinated indebtedness. Payment of the principal of the notes may be accelerated only in the case of certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency proceedings or reorganization of the Company. The subordinated notes described above qualify as Tier 2 capital under Federal Reserve guidelines. None of the subordinated notes are redeemable prior to maturity.  

In October 2008, the FDIC announced a new program—the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”)—to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Under the original rules, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt with maturities greater than 30 days issued on or before June 30, 2009, would be backed by the “full faith and credit” of the U.S. government through June 30, 2012. The FDIC’s payment obligation under the guarantee for eligible senior unsecured debt would be triggered by a payment default. The guarantee is limited to 125 percent of senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. This includes Federal funds purchased, promissory notes, commercial paper and certain types of inter-bank funding. Participants were charged a 50-100 basis point fee to protect their new debt issues which varies depending on the maturity date. Additionally, participants could elect to pay a fee of 37.5 basis points on their TLGP capacity for the right to issue non-guaranteed debt during the program. This fee was non-refundable and used to offset the guarantee fee for issuances until exhausted. In December 2008, Regions Bank completed an offering of $3.75 billion of qualifying senior bank notes covered by the TLGP. Payment of principal and interest on the notes will be guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States pursuant to the TLGP. At December 31, 2010, approximately $2 billion of this offering remained outstanding and will mature in December 2011.  

81  

Table of Contents 

As of December 31, 2010, Regions had senior debt and bank notes totaling $3.8 billion, compared to $5.3 billion at December 31, 2009. In June 2010 and December 2010, approximately $250 million and $2 billion of senior notes, respectively, matured. During 2010, Regions issued $250 million (par value) of 4.875 percent senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75 percent senior notes due June 2015.  

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Regions had $843 million of junior subordinated notes (“JSNs”) bearing interest rates ranging from 6.625 percent to 8.875 percent. JSNs were issued to affiliated trusts, which contemporaneously issued trust preferred securities which Regions guaranteed.  

Other long-term debt was $383 million at December 31, 2010 and $454 million at December 31, 2009, and had weighted-average interest rates of 2.6% and 2.9%, respectively, and a weighted-average maturity of 5.1 years and 5.3 years, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $55 million included in other long-term debt in connection with a seller-lessee transaction with continuing involvement compared to $59 million as of December 31, 2009. Approximately $200 million related to term repurchase agreements is also included in other long-term debt at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings.  

In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and/or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013.  

Regions’ Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC.  

Regions’ borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion.  

Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring its outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares.  

RATINGS  

During 2010, Regions experienced rating actions by Standard & Poor’s Corporation (“S&P”), Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service (“DBRS”). The agencies downgraded obligations of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions’ access to the capital markets or short-term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, funding of variable rate demand notes (“VRDNs”), as well as FDIC insurance costs, thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions’ financial condition and liquidity.  

82  

Table of Contents 

Table 17 “Credit Ratings” reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and DBRS at December 31, 2010 and 2009.  

Table 17—Credit Ratings  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Not Prime  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

On November 1, 2010, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the ratings of 10 large U.S. regional banks, including Regions, after reducing its government support assumptions for these entities. The rationale for the downgrades reflects Moody’s view that the likelihood of government support for these institutions is lower now that the U.S. Banking system has moved beyond the financial crisis. Shortly following the downgrade by Moody’s, Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank received downgrades from each of the other ratings agencies, citing concerns regarding Regions’ credit quality, specifically commercial real estate loan exposures and unfavorable geographic concentrations, and the related implications for its capital, as the primary determinants of the ratings actions.  

At December 31, 2010, Moody’s and S&P’s credit ratings for Regions were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moody’s credit ratings were below investment grade. Regions and Regions Bank remain on a credit watch with negative implications from Moody’s. Additionally, many obligations of Regions and Regions Bank remain on negative outlook by the agencies referred to above. See the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.  

A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  

83  

Table of Contents 

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  

Stockholders’ equity decreased to $16.7 billion at year-end 2010 versus $17.9 billion at year-end 2009. In 2010, net losses reduced stockholders’ equity by $539 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders’ equity by $49 million for common stock and $187 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income decreased equity by $390 million.  

On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserve’s Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” and Table 18 “Capital Ratios” for further discussion).  

The Company’s public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs.  

The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (“Series B shares”), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2010. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in the conversion and dividend settlement.  

In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also exchanged approximately 33 million common shares for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (“the Trust”). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders’ equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs.  

These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further discussion).  

At December 31, 2010, Regions had 23.1 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2010 or 2009. The Company’s ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). See Part II, Item 5 (“Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities”) for more information.  

Regions’ ratio of stockholders’ equity to total assets was 12.6 percent at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Regions’ ratio of tangible common stockholders’ equity (stockholders’ equity less goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 compared to 6.22 percent at December 31, 2009 (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further discussion). The decrease between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets.  

In 2010, Regions decreased its annual dividend to $0.04 per common share, compared to $0.13 in 2009 and $0.96 in 2008. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future.  

84  

Table of Contents 

BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS  

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by banking regulatory agencies. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure.  

The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk-weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital.  

The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill and certain other intangibles (“Tier 1 capital”). The remainder (“Tier 2 capital”) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is “total risk-based capital” or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd-Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment.  

The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk-based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the “Leverage ratio”). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level.  

In connection with the SCAP, banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions’ capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders’ equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further details).  

Regions’ Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent as of December 31, 2010. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased-in on January 1, 2019 . The Company’s pro forma Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios, based on Regions’ current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 and 11.35 percent, above the Basel III minimums of 7 percent for Tier 1 common and 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital. Regions also expects to meet the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio in its current form. However, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, so the ultimate impact on Regions is not completely known at this point. See the “Supervision and Regulation—Capital Requirements” subsection of the “Business” section and the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.  

85  

Table of Contents 

The following chart summarizes the applicable bank regulatory capital requirements. Regions’ capital ratios at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 substantially exceeded all regulatory requirements.  

Table 18—Capital Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes.  

 (2) Includes $119 million and $128 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off-balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives.  

 (3) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation.  

See Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2010, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized.  

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (“trust preferred securities”) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts’ only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long-term borrowings (see Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings”  

86  

Table of Contents 

 to the consolidated financial statements) and Regions’ equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities will continue to constitute Tier 1 capital. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the “Supervision and Regulation—Capital Requirements” section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions’ maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2010 was $893 million, which included $196 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short-term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $213 million as of December 31, 2010. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $61 million at December 31, 2010. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 “Variable Interest Entities” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

EFFECTS OF INFLATION  

The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity-to-assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation.  

Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions’ ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the company’s interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2010. Refer to Table 19 “Interest Rate Sensitivity” for additional details on Regions’ interest rate sensitivity.  

EFFECTS OF DEFLATION  

A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings.  

Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions’ ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help the bank maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop.  

RISK MANAGEMENT  

Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices  

87  

Table of Contents 

 or the credit quality of debt securities and/or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions’ market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage-related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market-related risks associated with its brokerage and market-related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions’ ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions’ primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required.  

Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committee’s focus is on Regions’ overall risk profile and the committee receives reports from the Company quarterly. Additionally, Regions’ Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  

Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond management’s control may result in losses despite risk management efforts.  

MARKET RISK—INTEREST RATE RISK  

Regions’ primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short-term indicator of Regions’ interest rate risk.  

Sensitivity Measurement—Financial simulation models are Regions’ primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions’ balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate-related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior.  

Historically, Regions’ balance sheet has consisted of a relatively rate-sensitive deposit base that funds a predominantly floating rate commercial and consumer loan portfolio. This mix of Regions’ core business activities creates a naturally asset sensitive balance sheet, meaning that increases (decreases) in interest rates would likely have a positive (negative) cumulative impact on Regions’ net interest income. To manage the balance sheet’s interest rate risk, Regions maintains a portfolio of largely fixed-rate discretionary investments, loans and derivatives. The market risk of these discretionary instruments attributable to variation in interest rates is fully incorporated into the simulation results in the same manner as all other balance sheet instruments.  

88  

Table of Contents 

The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on “market forward rates.” The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 100 basis points scenario; a minus 200 basis point scenario is not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up-rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six-month period, and include rate shifts of plus and minus 100 basis points and plus 200 basis points.  

Exposure to Interest Rate Movements—As of December 31, 2010, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending in December 2011. Regions continues to observe that the pace of economic recovery is at risk of being slow, which may result in a continuation of this period of low interest rates. To partially offset the adverse impact on net interest income and net interest margin attributable to an extended period of low interest rates, Regions entered into a series of receive-fixed interest rate swaps. These instruments have a final maturity in December 2012. The table below summarizes Regions’ position, and the scenarios are inclusive of all interest-rate risk hedging activities. Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied.  

Table 19—Interest Rate Sensitivity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions’ securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders’ equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). However, at December 31, 2010, Regions had no designations of hedges to mitigate price movements of securities.  

Derivatives—Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (“ALCO”), which consists of members of Regions’ senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks.  

Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts  

89  

Table of Contents 

 subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed-upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Company’s customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform.  

Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed-rate funding position to a variable-rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable-rate loan portfolio to fixed-rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held-for-sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing.  

Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non-dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and/or posted to that counterparty. The “Credit Risk” section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk.  

Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations.  

The primary objective of Regions’ hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions’ execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. As a result, Regions’ hedging strategies may be ineffective in mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings. See Note 20 “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities” to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions’ year-end derivatives positions and further discussion.  

On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions’ current portfolio.  

MARKET RISK—PREPAYMENT RISK  

Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage-related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that  

90  

Table of Contents 

 the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower-yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions’ interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions’ greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage-backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed-rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Prepayments on mortgage-backed securities increased during 2010 due to the favorable mortgage interest rate environment that existed for the majority of the year. However, tighter lending standards, decreased home prices, and lingering uncertainty surrounding the economic environment restrained otherwise higher prepayment speeds. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non-interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios.  

MARKET RISK—BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK  

References below, and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, to “Morgan Keegan” are intended to include not only Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. but also certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries. It should not be assumed or infered that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity.  

Morgan Keegan’s business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government-sponsored entities.  

Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax-exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government-sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers’ orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to “make a market” in these securities. Morgan Keegan’s trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiary’s capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities.  

In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. At December 31, 2010, the notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $312 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions’ consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions’ exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility.  

Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to-be-announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange-traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties.  

91  

Table of Contents 

Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest-sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegan’s securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegan’s equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non-performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a significant position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegan’s business.  

Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $54 million of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $161 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet.  

To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (“VAR”) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time-to-liquidate time horizon. The end-of-period VAR was approximately $805 thousand at December 31, 2010 and $1 million at December 31, 2009. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2010 was $2 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $3 million.  

LIQUIDITY RISK  

Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions’ ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Table 20 “Contractual Obligations” summarizes Regions’ contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2010. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies (see Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Company’s funding requirements).  

Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders’ equity. Regions’ goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting its cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using diversified sources of liquidity to satisfy the Company’s funding requirements.  

In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company and affiliate levels. Regions’ policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Company’s funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on  

92  

Table of Contents 

 unsecured sources. However, Regions has continued to test those markets and has entered them only when opportunistic borrowing is available. Regions has chosen to focus on using short-term secured sources of funding.  

Table 20—Contractual Obligations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non-interest bearing demand, savings, interest-bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts.  

 (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non-qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan.  

 (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less.  

 (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million and tax-related interest and penalties of $10 million. See Note 19 “Income Taxes” to the consoliated financial statements.  

 (5) See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for the Company’s commercial commitments at December 31, 2010.  

The securities portfolio is one of Regions’ primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Table 12 “Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities”). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by GNMA, which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government.  

Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 10 “Selected Loan Maturities”). At December 31, 2010, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $17.4 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $20 million were due to mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one-to-four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets. Historically, Regions’ liquidity has been enhanced by a stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2009, Regions’ customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers’ desire to lock-in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products.  

93  

Table of Contents 

Regions elected to exit the FDIC's TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program is a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non-interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided through January 1, 2013. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $10.6 billion of FDIC uninsured deposits.  

Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which primarily comprises the balance sheet line item, “interest-bearing deposits in other banks.” At the end of 2010, Regions had over $4.8 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions' borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion.  

Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short-term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings.  

Regions’ financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2010, FHLB Atlanta advances totaled $4.2 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has additional collateral available and, accordingly, has additional capacity to borrow from the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one-to-four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $419 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2010. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding.  

In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. During the second quarter of 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015.  

Regions’ Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC.  

Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares.  

Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

See the “Stockholders’ Equity” section for discussion of the Federal Reserve’s Supervisory Capital Assessment Program.  

94  

Table of Contents 

COUNTERPARTY RISK  

Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company.  

Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business.  

To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management.  

Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker-dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above.  

CREDIT RISK  

Regions’ objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high-quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle.  

Management Process  

Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and commercial real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk-rated, approved and monitored.  

Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi-annually or more frequently as needed.  

To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions’ Special Assets Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures.  

There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes  

95  

Table of Contents 

 described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios.  

Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk-rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended.  

Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio  

In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans.  

Economic Environment in Regions’ Banking Markets  

The largest factor influencing the credit performance of Regions’ loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation-adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after-tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession.  

In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010; however, concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or currently delinquent.  

In the fourth quarter of 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. On December 17, 2010, the President approved significant tax provisions that are expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product, in 2011 and 2012. On November 3, 2010, the Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds. The combination of these two policy actions should support growth and dramatically lower the possibility of a second recession in 2011. These actions should also help mitigate further downside risk for asset prices, in particular real estate prices.  

Portfolio Characteristics  

Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2010, commercial loans represented 42 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 19 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 21 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type.  

Commercial—The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $35.1 billion at year-end 2010 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid-sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions’ geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually  

96  

Table of Contents 

 secured with the assets of the company and/or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner-occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long-term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner-occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge-offs on commercial loans were 1.87 percent in 2010 compared to 1.28 percent in 2009.  

Investor Real Estate—The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $15.9 billion at year-end 2010 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge-offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans continued to trend upward, from 3.64 percent in 2009 to 5.66 percent in 2010 reflecting continued credit pressure. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge-offs on commercial investor real estate construction loans rose substantially, from 6.66 percent in 2009 to 14.3 percent in 2010. Losses on sales or transfers to held for sale of non-performing investor real estate loans also contributed to the year-over-year increase in net charge-offs.  

The following chart presents detail of Regions’ $15.91 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in billions):  

Beginning in late 2007, the land, single-family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment came under significant pressure. Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non-collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property.  

97  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents credit metrics for land, single-family and condominium loans at December 31:  

Table 21—Land, Single-Family and Condominium  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   * Excludes non-accruing loans held for sale.  

Beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2010, Regions has strategically reduced exposures in these product types through pro-active workouts, asset dispositions and charge-offs. Condominium has been reduced to levels that management no longer considers to be significant exposures. In 2010, Regions executed a bulk sale of non-performing assets which totaled $350 million. Non-accrual portfolio loans secured predominantly by land represented approximately $200 million of the sale, with the remaining amount primarily comprised of foreclosed property and loans held for sale. Accordingly, this transaction contributed to the decrease in non-accruing loans in the land table above. Other non-bulk note sale activity in 2010 also contributed to decreases in all of these categories.  

Beginning in 2009, multi-family and retail loans experienced increased pressure and contributed to increases in non-accrual loans. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non-collection for these types of loans. Offsetting the risk of non-collection is the geographic diversity of Regions’ exposure.  

The following table presents credit metrics and geographic distribution for Regions’ multi-family and retail loans at December 31:  

Table 22—Multi-family and Retail  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to multi-family loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Texas 20 percent, Florida 13 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Tennessee 7 percent, Louisiana 7 percent and North Carolina 6 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 5 percent, make up the remainder of the balance.  

   * Excludes non-accruing loans held for sale.  

98  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (2) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to retail loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Florida 24 percent, Texas 12 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Alabama 9 percent, Tennessee 7 percent and North Carolina 7 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 4 percent, make up the remainder of the balance.  

   * Excludes non-accruing loans held for sale.  

Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above drove the year-over-year decreases in multi-family and retail. While the multi-family category experienced an increase in non-accrual loans due to economic factors, this category was not a major contributor to the year-over-year change in total non-accrual loans.  

Residential First Mortgage—The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single-family residences that are originated through Regions’ branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions’ market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2010, losses on single-family residences totaled 1.53 percent, 24 basis points higher than in the previous year, primarily driven by declining property values, foreclosures and other influential economic factors, such as the unemployment rate.  

The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for residential first mortgage lending products (“current LTV”). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSA”). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Company’s footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. At December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of residential first mortgage loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 4.9 percent, while approximately 10.6 percent of the outstanding balances of residential first mortgage loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent.  

Home Equity—The home equity portfolio totaled $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010, as compared to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates have risen to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses.  

Using the same methodology described in the above discussion of residential first mortgage loans, at December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of home equity loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 8.2 percent, while approximately 14.3 percent of the outstanding balances of home equity loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. If the home equity loan is in a second lien position, the first lien has also been considered in the analysis. If the first lien position is with another institution, the Company uses the first lien outstanding balance at the time the second lien was originated.  

99  

Table of Contents 

The table below provides details related to the home equity lending portfolio for the years ended December 31:  

Table 23—Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Net charge-off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances.  

Indirect and Other Consumer Lending—Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third-party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re-entered the indirect auto lending business. Other consumer loans, which consist primarily of borrowings for home improvements, automobiles, overdrafts and other personal household purposes, totaled $1.2 billion as of year-end and were relatively unchanged from prior year’s balance. Losses on indirect and other consumer lending increased in 2009 due to deterioration of general economic conditions, but stabilized in 2010.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses represents management’s estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year-end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Management’s assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments.  

Allowance Process—Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: (1) detailed reviews of individual loans; (2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge-offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; (3) the Company’s policies relating to delinquent loans and charge-offs; (4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; (5) levels and trends in non-performing and past due loans; (6) collateral values of properties securing loans; (7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; (8) management’s analysis of current economic conditions; (9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and (10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non-performing loans on at least an annual basis.  

100  

Table of Contents 

Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Special Assets are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent.  

For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and management’s judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for credit losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses or noninterest expense, as applicable.  

As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantor’s ability to perform, under the guarantee. However, the benefit assigned to credit support within the calculation of the allowance for credit losses is not material to the consolidated financial statements.  

At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year-end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects management’s estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance.  

Non-performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting management’s efforts to work through problem assets.  

Higher levels of charge-offs in 2010 as described below were also a factor in the allowance for credit losses. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans were 3.22 percent and 2.38 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Charge-off ratios were higher across most major classes. Investor real estate losses were the largest contributor, reflecting increased charge-offs in the land, single-family and retail components of investor real estate. Increased charge-offs reflect the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions.  

Net charge-offs on home equity rose to 2.80 percent in 2010 versus 2.63 percent in 2009. Losses from Florida-based credits were again particularly high, as property valuations in certain markets continued to experience deterioration. These loans and lines represent approximately $5.2 billion of Regions’ total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2010. Of that balance, approximately $2.1 billion represents first liens; second liens, which total $3.1 billion, were the main source of losses. Florida second lien losses were 7.12 percent in 2010. Total home equity losses in Florida amounted to 5.38 percent of loans and lines versus 1.30 percent across the remainder of Regions’ footprint in 2010.  

Management expects charge-offs to moderate going forward, but will likely remain elevated. Real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of charge-offs.  

Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance for  

101  

Table of Contents 

 credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates.  

Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s total, are included in Table 24 “Allowance for Credit Losses.” Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. Also, refer to Table 25 “Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses” for details pertaining to management’s allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category.  

102  

Table of Contents 

Table 24—Allowance for Credit Losses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

103  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008.  

 (2) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Regions transferred the portion of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded credit commitments to other liabilities.  

104  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 25—Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008.  

Loans deemed to be impaired include troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”), plus commercial and investor real estate non-accrual loans (excluding leases). Commercial and investor real estate impaired loans with outstanding balances equal to or greater than $2.5 million are evaluated individually for impairment. For these loans, Regions measures the level of impairment based on the present value of the estimated projected cash flows, the estimated value of the collateral or, if available, the observable market prices. For consumer TDRs,  

105  

Table of Contents 

 Regions measures the level of impairment based on pools of loans stratified by common risk characteristics. If current valuations are lower than the current book balance of the credit, the negative differences are reviewed for possible charge-off. In instances where management determines that a charge-off is not appropriate, a specific reserve is established for the individual loan in question. This specific reserve is incorporated as a part of the overall allowance for credit losses. The recorded investment in impaired loans was approximately $4.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2009. Loans that were characterized as TDRs totaled $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The allowance allocated to TDRs totaled $224 million and $57 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For further details on impaired loans and the allowance for credit losses, see Note 5 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.  

Regions continues to work to meet the individual needs of consumer borrowers to stem foreclosure through the Customer Assistance Program (“CAP”). Regions designed the program to allow for customer-tailored modifications with the goal of keeping customers in their homes and avoiding foreclosure where possible. Modification may be offered to any borrower experiencing financial hardship—regardless of the borrower’s payment status. Under the CAP, Regions may offer a short-term deferral, a term extension, an interest rate reduction, a new loan product, or a combination of these options. Regions evaluates the success of the modification program (the “recidivism rate”). The recidivism rate is the 60-day and greater delinquency rate inclusive of non-accruing loans for all TDRs which were restructured six months or prior to the reporting period. For CAP modifications, this rate is currently approximately 22 percent. For loans restructured under CAP, Regions expects to collect the original contractually due principal. The gross original contractual interest may be collectible, depending on the terms modified. The length of the CAP modifications ranges from temporary payment deferrals of three months to term extensions for the life of the loan. All such modifications are considered TDRs regardless of the term if there is a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Modified loans are subject to policies governing accrual/nonaccrual evaluation consistent with all other loans of the same product type. Consumer loans are subject to objective accrual/nonaccrual decisions. Under these policies, loans subject to CAP are charged down to estimated value and placed on nonaccrual status on or before the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Because the program was designed to evaluate potential CAP participants as early as possible in the lifecycle of the troubled loan, many of the modifications are finalized without the borrower ever reaching 180 days past due, and with the loans having never been placed on nonaccrual. Accordingly, given the positive impact of the restructuring on the likelihood of recovery of cash flows due under the modified terms, accrual status continues to be appropriate for these loans. None of the modified consumer loans listed in the TDR disclosures were collateral-dependent at the time of modification. At December 31, 2010, approximately $153 million in residential first mortgage TDRs and approximately $9 million in home equity TDRs were in excess of 180 days past due and are considered collateral-dependent.  

106  

Table of Contents 

Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the CAP. Commercial and investor real estate are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. The following table summarizes TDRs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:  

Table 26—Troubled Debt Restructurings  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Notes:  

  1.   All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. 

  2.    

Net charge-offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $72 million and $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

Net charge-offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $63 million and $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

Net charge-offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $109 million and $57 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

Net charge-offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million and $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

Net charge-offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $7 million and $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

NON-PERFORMING ASSETS  

Non-performing assets consist of loans on non-accrual status and foreclosed properties. Loans are placed on non-accrual status when management has determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest unless well-secured and in the process of collection. When a commercial loan is placed on non-accrual status, uncollected interest accrued in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on commercial loans placed on non-accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses. When a consumer loan is placed on non-accrual status, all uncollected interest accrued is reversed and charged to interest income.  

At December 31, 2010, non-performing assets totaled $3.9 billion, or 4.70 percent of ending loans and other real estate , compared to $4.4 billion, or 4.83 percent of loans of loans and other real estate, at December 31, 2009. The decrease in non-performing assets during the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the Company’s efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures.  

107  

Table of Contents 

Foreclosed properties, a subset of non-performing assets, totaled $454 million at December 31, 2010 and $607 million at December 31, 2009, reflecting dispositions and valuation charges due to continued stress on property values. Regions’ foreclosed properties are composed primarily of a number of small to medium-size properties that are diversified geographically throughout the franchise. Foreclosed properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less the estimated cost to sell. Table 27 “Non-Performing Assets” presents information on non-performing loans and foreclosed properties acquired in settlement of loans.  

Management expects non-performing assets to stabilize going forward, but will likely remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of non-performing assets.  

Table 27—Non-Performing Assets  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due  

108  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due  

 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008.  

Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing totaled $585 million as of year-end 2010, a decrease of $103 million from year-end 2009 levels, reflecting improvement across all loan categories.  

At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Regions had approximately $800 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non-accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms.  

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS  

Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions’ process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas; how those risks are controlled or mitigated; and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of management’s testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently.  

109  

Table of Contents 

Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  

Regions’ Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, and operations and technology, as well as from the core business segments. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from all core business segments, accounting, legal, risk management, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as evidence of the Company’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10-K and 10-Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.  

As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions’ periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary.  

COMPARISON OF 2009 WITH 2008  

Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion or $1.27 per diluted common share in 2009. Significant drivers of 2009 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and pressured net interest income. Offsetting these items to some extent was Regions’ solid fee and mortgage income.  

Net loss from continuing operations in 2009 was $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted common share, compared to net loss from continuing operations of $5.6 billion, or $8.07 per diluted share in 2008. Regions incurred an $18 million pre-tax loss related to EquiFirst resulting in an after-tax net loss of $11 million, for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Net income in 2008 includes after-tax merger charges of $125 million, or $0.18 per diluted share and a $6 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge, or $8.63 per diluted share.  

Net interest income was $3.3 billion in 2009 compared to $3.8 billion in 2008. The net interest margin (taxable-equivalent basis) was 2.67 percent in 2009, compared to 3.23 percent during 2008. The decline in the net interest margin was impacted primarily by factors directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include Regions’ asset sensitive balance sheet, which was impacted by an unfavorable decline in the general level and shape of the yield curve, higher spreads on new debt issuances, and rising non-performing asset levels. Additionally, loan yields declined throughout the year, as variable rate loans fell in response to declines in the short-term rates to which they are tied. Declining deposit rates partially offset these movements, but the decline was somewhat limited by the competitive demand for deposits within the industry, largely prompted by stressed economic conditions throughout the U.S.  

The following discussion of non-interest income and expense is from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Non-interest income totaled $3.8 billion in 2009, compared to $3.1 billion in 2008. The increase in non-interest  

110  

Table of Contents 

 income was primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions during the year. However, this revenue was more than offset by the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in mortgage income, primarily due to customers taking advantage of historically low mortgage rates, which drove higher mortgage originations and slightly higher service charges income. In addition, non-interest income was aided by a gain on the early extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Company’s issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities.  

Offsetting the non-interest income increases, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenue decreased in 2009 to $989 million compared to $1.0 billion in 2008 due to lower fees from investment banking and capital markets. In addition, trust income fees were negatively impacted by lower asset valuations due to the disarray in the markets during the year. Non-interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable-equivalent basis) equaled 44 percent in 2009 compared to 43 percent in 2008. The increase is primarily due to higher mortgage income and a decline in net interest income in 2009.  

Service charges on deposit accounts increased 1 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 from $1.1 billion in 2008. This modest increase was the result of an increase in interchange income due to higher volumes, partially offset by a decline in overdraft and insufficient funds revenues. Total revenues from overdrafts and insufficient funds charges were $605 million in 2009 and $622 million in 2008.  

In 2009, mortgage income increased $121 million, or 88 percent to $259 million. The increase was due to increased refinance activity as customers took advantage of historically low mortgage rates, resulting in $9.6 billion in mortgage originations during the year, compared to $5.4 billion in 2008. Market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives added $13 million to mortgage income in 2009. No such income was recorded in the previous year.  

Regions reported net gains of $69 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2009, compared to net gains of $92 million in 2008. During 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non-agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage-backed securities and municipal securities and through these measures incurred some losses on the sales. The Company’s gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Company’s asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2009 and 2008 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities classified as available for sale.  

Total non-interest expense for 2008 included a $6 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge and $201 million in merger-related charges. Non-interest expense was $4.8 billion in 2009, reflecting higher securities impairments and FDIC insurance costs.  

Salaries and employee benefits decreased 4 percent to $2.3 billion in 2009 compared to $2.4 billion in 2008, Included in total salaries and employee benefits in 2008 are merger charges totaling $134 million. The year-over-year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost is the due to a 7 percent decline in headcount. At December 31, 2009, Regions had 28,509 employees compared to 30,784 at December 31, 2008.  

Net occupancy expense increased 3 percent to $454 million in 2009, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Also, included in net occupancy expense in 2008 were merger charges of $4 million, reflecting costs to vacate leases due to the merger.  

Furniture and equipment expense decreased $24 million to $311 million in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to lower depreciation; however 2009 branch consolidation charges of $7 million partially offset the decreases. Included in furniture and equipment expense were merger charges of $5 million in 2008.  

111  

Table of Contents 

Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $95 million to $309 million in 2009. Included in professional fees during 2008 were $7 million of merger-related charges. The increase in 2009 is primarily due to higher legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit-related legal costs (such as legal fees associated with loan work-outs).  

Other real estate owned (“OREO”) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, grounds maintenance, etc. Foreclosed properties balances increased $364 million to $607 million in 2009 compared to $243 million in 2008 due to increasing numbers of foreclosures. OREO expense increased $72 million to $175 million in 2009 compared to $103 million in 2008, driven by the significant increase in OREO balances, coupled with property valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets.  

Marketing expenses decreased $22 million during 2009 to $75 million compared to $97 million in 2008. The decrease was driven by $13 million of merger-related charges in 2008.  

Mortgage servicing rights impairment was $85 million in 2008. There was no impairment related to mortgage servicing rights in 2009 as the Company elected the fair value method as of January 1, 2009.  

FDIC premiums, including a special assessment, increased $212 million to $227 million in 2009. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove the increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies’ ratings, comprised of Regions Bank’s capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long-term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums.  

Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $186 million to $736 million in 2009. Included in other miscellaneous expenses are merger charges totaling $38 million in 2008. The decline in 2009 was attributable to several factors. As discussed above, in January 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded in mortgage income. At that time, Regions was no longer required to adjust non-interest expense for amortization of mortgage servicing rights. The impact of the amortization expense for 2008 was $75 million and there was no corresponding impact in 2009. Also, included in other non-interest expense in 2008 was $49 million of write-downs on investments in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds with no similar expense during 2009.  

Regions’ 2009 benefit for income taxes from continuing operations decreased $177 million to a tax benefit of $171 million compared to a tax benefit of $348 million in 2008. The decrease in the benefit is primarily related to the tax expenses on leveraged lease terminations in 2009.  

Net charge-offs totaled $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009 compared to $1.5 billion, or 1.59 percent of average loans in 2008. The increased loss rate reflected ongoing pressure in property valuations and continued strains in the economy as a whole. Non-performing assets increased $2.7 billion between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 to $4.4 billion, primarily due to continued weakness in the Company’s land, single-family and condominium portfolios. Non-performing assets held for sale totaled $317 million and $423 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in management’s judgment is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2009 the provision for loan losses was $3.5 billion and net charge-offs were $2.3 billion. This compares to a  

112  

Table of Contents 

 provision for loan losses of $2.1 billion and net charge-offs of $1.5 billion in 2008. The increase in the provision was primarily due to focused efforts to identify and address loan portfolio pressure, as well as continued deterioration in the land, single-family, condominium and home equity portfolios. Income-producing investor real estate, including multi-family and retail, also contributed to the increased level of non-performing loans, which significantly impacts the level of the provision.  

At December 31, 2009, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.8 billion or 1.87 percent at year-end 2008. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects management’s estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which continued to increase during 2009 due to a recessionary economy, rising unemployment, a weakened housing market and deterioration in income-producing properties. The increase in non-performing assets, driven by land, single-family and condominium loans and income producing investor real estate loans, was a key determining dynamic in the assessment of inherent losses and, as a result, was an important factor in determining the allowance level. Additionally, unfavorable migration between risk rating categories drove higher allowance allocation rates for these loan portfolios.  

Table 28—Quarterly Results of Operations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Notes:    

1. Quarterly amounts may not add to year-to-date amounts due to rounding. 

2. High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. 

113  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data