Item 1. Business   

Regions Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, “Regions” or “Company”) is a financial holding company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama, which operates throughout the South, Midwest and Texas. Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds,  

2  

Table of Contents 

 securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. At December 31, 2010, Regions had total consolidated assets of approximately $132.4 billion, total consolidated deposits of approximately $94.6 billion and total consolidated stockholders’ equity of approximately $16.7 billion.  

Regions is a Delaware corporation and on July 1, 2004, became the successor by merger to Union Planters Corporation and the former Regions Financial Corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203, and its telephone number at that address is (205) 326-5807.  

Banking Operations  

Regions conducts its banking operations through Regions Bank, an Alabama chartered commercial bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2010, Regions operated approximately 2,100 ATMs and 1,772 banking offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.  

The following chart reflects the distribution of branch locations in each of the states in which Regions conducts its banking operations.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other Financial Services Operations  

In addition to its banking operations, Regions provides additional financial services through the following subsidiaries:  

Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (“Morgan Keegan”), a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, is a full-service regional brokerage and investment banking firm. Morgan Keegan offers products and services including securities brokerage, asset management, financial planning, mutual funds, securities underwriting, sales and trading, and investment banking. Morgan Keegan also manages the delivery of trust services, which are provided pursuant to the trust powers of Regions Bank. Morgan Keegan employs approximately 1,200 financial advisors offering products and services from over 321 offices located in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.  

Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, is an insurance broker that offers insurance products through its subsidiaries Regions Insurance, Inc., headquartered in Birmingham,  

3  

Table of Contents 

 Alabama, and Regions Insurance Services, Inc., headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. Through its insurance brokerage operations in Alabama, Arkansas, Indiana, Louisiana, Missouri, Mississippi, Tennessee and Texas, Regions Insurance, Inc. offers insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. Regions Insurance Services, Inc. offers credit-related insurance products, such as title, term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. With $108 million in annual revenues and offices in eight states, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. is one of the largest insurance brokers in the United States.  

Regions has several subsidiaries and affiliates which are agents or reinsurers of credit life insurance products relating to the activities of certain affiliates of Regions. Regions Investment Services, Inc., which sells annuities and life insurance products to Regions Bank customers, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Regions Bank. In order to consolidate insurance related activities and the offering and distribution of insurance products, operationally Regions Investment Services, Inc. joined Regions Insurance Group, Inc. in 2010.  

Regions Equipment Finance Corporation, a subsidiary of Regions Bank, provides domestic and international equipment financing products, focusing on commercial clients.  

Acquisition Program  

A substantial portion of the growth of Regions from its inception as a bank holding company in 1971 has been through the acquisition of other financial institutions, including commercial banks and thrift institutions, and the assets and deposits of those financial institutions. As part of its ongoing strategic plan, Regions periodically evaluates business combination opportunities. Any future business combination or series of business combinations that Regions might undertake may be material, in terms of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, to Regions’ financial condition. Historically, business combinations in the financial services industry have typically involved the payment of a premium over book and market values. This practice could result in dilution of book value and net income per share for the acquirer.  

Segment Information  

Reference is made to Note 22 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information required by this item.  

Supervision and Regulation  

Regions and its subsidiaries are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Regulation of financial institutions such as Regions and its subsidiaries is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (“FDIC”) Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) and the banking system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of stockholders or other investors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Regions and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of Regions and its subsidiaries.  

Overview  

Regions is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) as a bank holding company and has elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHC Act”). As such, Regions and its subsidiaries are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHC Act and the regulations of the Federal Reserve.  

4  

Table of Contents 

 Generally, the BHC Act provides for “umbrella” regulation of financial holding companies by the Federal Reserve and functional regulation of holding company subsidiaries by applicable regulatory agencies. The BHC Act, however, requires the Federal Reserve to examine any subsidiary of a bank holding company, other than a depository institution, engaged in activities permissible for a depository institution. The Federal Reserve is also granted the authority, in certain circumstances, to require reports of, examine and adopt rules applicable to any holding company subsidiary.  

In general, the BHC Act limits the activities permissible for bank holding companies. Bank holding companies electing to be treated as financial holding companies, however, may engage in additional activities under the BHC Act as described below under “—Permissible Activities under the BHC Act.” For a bank holding company to be eligible to elect financial holding company status, all of its subsidiary insured depository institutions must be well-capitalized and well-managed as described below under “—Regulatory Remedies Under the FDIA” and must have received at least a satisfactory rating on such institution’s most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the “CRA”). Beginning in July 2011, a bank holding company’s eligibility to elect financial holding company status will also depend upon the holding company being well-capitalized and well-managed. If a financial holding company fails to continue to meet any of the prerequisites for financial holding company status after engaging in activities not permissible for bank holding companies that have not elected to be treated as financial holding companies, the company must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal Reserve may order the company to divest its subsidiary banks or the company may discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a bank holding company electing to be treated as a financial holding company.  

Regions Bank is a member of the FDIC, and, as such, its deposits are insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by law. Regions Bank is an Alabama state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System. It is generally subject to supervision and examination by both the Federal Reserve and the Alabama Department of Banking. The Federal Reserve and the Alabama Department of Banking regularly examine the operations of Regions Bank and are given authority to approve or disapprove mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. The federal and state banking regulators also have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. Regions Bank is subject to numerous statutes and regulations that affect its business activities and operations, including various consumer protection laws and regulations. Additionally, commercial banks are affected significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve as it attempts to control money and credit availability in order to influence the economy.  

Many of Regions’ non-bank subsidiaries, such as Morgan Keegan, are also subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies. As a registered investment adviser and broker-dealer, Morgan Keegan and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation and examination by the Securities and Exchange Commissioner (“SEC”). Morgan Keegan and its subsidiaries are also subject to regulation and examination by state securities regulators as well as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and other self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”). All of these regulations may affect Morgan Keegan’s manner of operation and profitability.  

Recent Developments  

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which was enacted in July 2010, significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States, including through the creation of a new resolution authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies, and through numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new systemic risk oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”). The FSOC will oversee and coordinate the efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies (including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC  

5  

Table of Contents 

 and the SEC) in establishing regulations to address systemic financial stability concerns. The Dodd-Frank Act directs the FSOC to make recommendations to the Federal Reserve Board regarding supervisory requirements and prudential standards applicable to systemically important financial institutions (which we expect will include Regions), including capital, leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other financial companies.  

In addition to the framework for systemic risk oversight implemented through the FSOC, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes heightened prudential requirements on bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, such as Regions, and requires the Federal Reserve to establish prudential standards for such large bank holding companies that are more stringent than those applicable to other bank holding companies, including standards for risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits, liquidity, risk-management requirements, resolution plan and credit exposure reporting, and concentration. The Federal Reserve has discretionary authority to establish additional prudential standards, on its own or at the FSOC’s recommendation, regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits, and otherwise as it deems appropriate. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve to conduct annual analyses of such bank holding companies to evaluate whether the companies have sufficient capital on a total consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions.  

Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act provides for the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”), a new consumer financial services regulator. The CFPB is directed to prevent unfair, deceptive and abusive practices and ensure that all consumers have access to markets for consumer financial products and services, and that such markets are fair, transparent and competitive. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the CFPB authority to enforce and issue rules and regulations implementing existing consumer protection laws and responsibility for all such existing regulations. Depository institutions with assets exceeding $10 billion, such as Regions Bank, their affiliates, and other “larger participants” in the markets for consumer financial services (as determined by the CFPB) will be subject to direct supervision by the CFPB, including any applicable examination, enforcement and reporting requirements the CFPB may establish.  

New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations (including changes in interpretation or enforcement) could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. As discussed further throughout this section, many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on Regions and its subsidiaries or the financial services industry generally. In addition to the discussion in this section, see “Risk Factors—Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on our operations” for a discussion of the potential impact legislative and regulatory reforms may have on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Permissible Activities under the BHC Act  

In general, the BHC Act limits the activities permissible for bank holding companies to the business of banking, managing or controlling banks and such other activities as the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be properly incident thereto. A bank holding company electing to be treated as a financial holding company may also engage in a range of activities which are (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and which do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of a depository institution or to the financial system generally. These activities include securities dealing, underwriting and market making, insurance underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking and insurance company portfolio investments.  

The BHC Act does not place territorial limitations on permissible non-banking activities of bank holding companies. The Federal Reserve has the power to order any bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has  

6  

Table of Contents 

 reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the bank holding company.  

Capital Requirements  

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with the applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve. There are two basic measures of capital adequacy for bank holding companies that have been promulgated by the Federal Reserve: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure.  

Risk-based Capital Standards. The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and financial holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items.  

The minimum guideline for the ratio of total capital (“Total capital”) to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8.0 percent. At least half of the Total capital must be “Tier 1 capital,” which currently consists of qualifying common equity, qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock (including related surplus), senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”) as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”), minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, and certain “restricted core capital elements,” as discussed below, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Currently, “Tier 2 capital” may consist of, among other things, qualifying subordinated debt, mandatorily convertible debt securities, preferred stock and trust preferred securities not included in the definition of Tier 1 capital, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. Non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, trust preferred securities and other so-called “restricted core capital elements” are currently limited to 25 percent of Tier 1 capital. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be phased-out of the definition of Tier 1 capital of bank holding companies having consolidated assets exceeding $500 million, such as Regions, over a three-year period beginning in January 2013.  

The minimum guideline to be considered well-capitalized for Tier 1 capital and Total capital is 6.0 percent and 10.0 percent, respectively. At December 31, 2010, Regions’ consolidated Tier 1 capital ratio was 12.40 percent and its Total capital ratio was 16.35 percent. The elements currently comprising Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital and the minimum Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios may be subject to change in the future, as discussed in greater detail below.  

Basel I and II Standards. Regions currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). In 2004, the Basel Committee published a new set of risk-based capital standards (“Basel II”) in order to update Basel I. Basel II provides two approaches for setting capital standards for credit risk—an internal ratings-based approach tailored to individual institutions’ circumstances and a standardized approach that bases risk-weighting on external credit assessments to a much greater extent than permitted in the existing risk-based capital guidelines. Basel II also would set capital requirements for operational risk and refine the existing capital requirements for market risk exposures. A definitive final rule for implementing the advanced approaches of Basel II in the United States, which applies only to internationally active banking organizations, or “core banks” (defined as those with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposures of $10 billion or more) became effective on April 1, 2008. Other U.S. banking organizations may elect to adopt the requirements of this rule (if they meet applicable qualification requirements), but are not required to comply. The rule also allows a banking organization’s primary federal supervisor to determine that application of the rule would not be appropriate in light of the bank’s asset size, level of complexity, risk profile or scope of operations. Regions Bank is currently not required to comply with Basel II.  

7  

Table of Contents 

In July 2008, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies issued a proposed rule that would provide banking organizations that do not use the advanced approaches with the option to implement a new risk-based capital framework. This framework would adopt the standardized approach of Basel II for credit risk, the basic indicator approach of Basel II for operational risk, and related disclosure requirements. While this proposed rule generally parallels the relevant approaches under Basel II, it diverges where United States markets have unique characteristics and risk profiles, most notably with respect to risk weighting residential mortgage exposures. Comments on the proposed rule were due to the agencies by October 27, 2008, but a definitive final rule has not been issued as of February 2011.  

Leverage Requirements. Neither Basel I nor Basel II includes a leverage requirement as an international standard; however, the Federal Reserve has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies to be considered well-capitalized. These guidelines provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total assets, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the “Leverage ratio”), of 3.0 percent for bank holding companies that meet certain specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating. All other bank holding companies generally are required to maintain a Leverage ratio of at least 4 percent. Regions’ Leverage ratio at December 31, 2010 was 9.30 percent.  

The guidelines also provide that bank holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will consider a “tangible Tier 1 capital leverage ratio” (deducting all intangibles) and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.  

Basel III Standards. In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially identified by the Basel Committee as “Basel III.” Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. The Basel III final capital framework, among other things:  

   •    introduces as a new capital measure “Common Equity Tier 1”, or “CET1”, specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, defines CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and expands the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations;  

   •    when fully phased in on January 1, 2019, requires banks to maintain:  

   •    as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5 percent, plus a 2.5 percent “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5 percent CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7 percent);  

   •    a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0 percent, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0 percent Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5 percent upon full implementation);  

   •    a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0 percent, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0 percent total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5 percent upon full implementation);  

   •    as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3.0 percent, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures (as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the quarter); and  

8  

Table of Contents 

   •    provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer”, generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0 percent to 2.5 percent when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between 2.5 percent and 5 percent).  

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.  

The implementation of the Basel III final framework will commence January 1, 2013. On that date, banking institutions will be required to meet the following minimum capital ratios:  

   •    3.5 percent CET1 to risk-weighted assets;  

   •    4.5 percent Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and  

   •    8.0 percent Total capital to risk-weighted assets.  

The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10 percent of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15 percent of CET1.  

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 will begin on January 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a five-year period (20 percent per year). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at 0.625 percent and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5 percent on January 1, 2019).  

The U.S. banking agencies have indicated informally that they expect to propose regulations implementing Basel III in mid-2011 with final adoption of implementing regulations in mid-2012. Notwithstanding its release of the Basel III framework as a final framework, the Basel Committee is considering further amendments to Basel III, including the imposition of additional capital surcharges on globally systemically important financial institutions. In addition to Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act requires or permits the Federal banking agencies to adopt regulations affecting banking institutions’ capital requirements in a number of respects, including potentially more stringent capital requirements for systemically important financial institutions. Accordingly, the regulations ultimately applicable to us may be substantially different from the Basel III final framework as published in December 2010.  

The Dodd-Frank Act appears to require the Federal Reserve to adopt regulations imposing a continuing “floor” of the Basel I-based capital requirements in cases where the Basel II-based capital requirements and any changes in capital regulations resulting from Basel III otherwise would permit lower requirements. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve published for comment proposed regulations implementing this requirement.  

Liquidity Requirements. Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the U.S. and internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity’s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25 percent of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incent banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury  

9  

Table of Contents 

 securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. The LCR would be implemented subject to an observation period beginning in 2011, but would not be introduced as a requirement until January 1, 2015, and the NSFR would not be introduced as a requirement until January 1, 2018. These new standards are subject to further rulemaking and their terms may well change before implementation.  

Capital Requirements of Regions Bank. Regions Bank is subject to substantially similar capital requirements as those applicable to Regions. As of December 31, 2010, Regions Bank was in compliance with applicable minimum capital requirements. Neither Regions nor Regions Bank has been advised by any federal banking agency of any specific minimum capital ratio requirement applicable to it as of December 31, 2010. Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank to a variety of enforcement remedies, including the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on its business. See “—Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA” below.  

Given that the Basel III rules are subject to change and the scope and content of capital regulations that U.S. federal banking agencies may adopt under the Dodd-Frank Act is uncertain, we cannot be certain of the impact new capital regulations will have on our capital ratios.  

Safety and Soundness Standards  

Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDIA”), establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. Additionally, the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the “prompt corrective action” provisions of the FDIA. See “—Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA” below. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties.  

Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA  

The FDIA establishes a system of regulatory remedies to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. The federal banking regulators have established five capital categories (“well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized”) and must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions which are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretion supervisory actions depend upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the banking regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. The federal bank regulatory agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital levels for each category:  

  “Well-Capitalized”    “Adequately Capitalized” 

Leverage ratio of 5 percent, 

Tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent, 

Total capital ratio of 10 percent, and 

Not subject to a written agreement, order, capital directive or regulatory remedy directive requiring a specific capital level.    

Leverage ratio of 4 percent, 

Tier 1 capital ratio of 4 percent, and 

Total capital ratio of 8 percent. 

10  

Table of Contents 

  “Undercapitalized”    “Significantly Undercapitalized” 

Leverage ratio less than 4 percent, 

Tier 1 capital ratio less than 4 percent, or 

Total capital ratio less than 8 percent.    

Leverage ratio less than 3 percent, 

Tier 1 capital ratio less than 3 percent, or 

Total capital ratio less than 6 percent. 

  “Critically undercapitalized”     

 Tangible equity to total assets less than 2 percent.    

For purposes of these regulations, the term “tangible equity” includes core capital elements counted as Tier 1 capital for purposes of the risk-based capital standards plus the amount of outstanding cumulative perpetual preferred stock (including related surplus), minus all intangible assets with certain exceptions. An institution that is classified as well-capitalized based on its capital levels may be classified as adequately capitalized, and an institution that is adequately capitalized or undercapitalized based upon its capital levels may be treated as though it were undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized, respectively, if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment.  

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a bank holding company must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The bank holding company must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. The obligation of a controlling bank holding company under the FDIA to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5.0 percent of an undercapitalized subsidiary’s assets or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the approval of the FDIC. Institutions that are significantly undercapitalized or undercapitalized and either fail to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fail to implement an approved capital restoration plan may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions failing to submit or implement an acceptable capital restoration plan are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator.  

Payment of Dividends  

Regions is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. The principal source of cash flow to Regions, including cash flow to pay dividends to its stockholders and principal and interest on any of its outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to Regions, as well as by Regions to its stockholders.  

If, in the opinion of a federal bank regulatory agency, an institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the institution, could include the payment of dividends), such agency may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and desist from such practice. The federal bank regulatory agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete an institution’s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the FDIA, an insured institution may not pay any dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. See “—Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA” above. Moreover, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued policy statements stating that bank holding companies and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Payment of Dividends by Regions Bank. Under the Federal Reserve’s Regulation H, Regions Bank may not, without the approval of the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to Regions if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year exceeds the total of (a) Regions Bank’s net income for that year and (b) its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to additional paid-in capital or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock. As a result of Regions Bank’s $975 million loss in 2009 and $252 million loss in 2010, Regions Bank cannot, without approval from the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to Regions until such time as Regions Bank is able to satisfy the criteria discussed in the preceding sentence. Given the losses in 2009 and 2010, Regions Bank may not be able to pay dividends to Regions in the near term without obtaining regulatory approval.  

Under Alabama law, Regions Bank may not pay a dividend in excess of 90 percent of its net earnings until the bank’s surplus is equal to at least 20 percent of capital. Regions Bank is also required by Alabama law to obtain approval of the Alabama Superintendent of Banking prior to the payment of dividends if the total of all dividends declared by Regions Bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (a) Regions Bank’s net earnings (as defined by statute) for that year, plus (b) its retained net earnings for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. Also, no dividends may be paid from Regions Bank’s surplus without the prior written approval of the Alabama Superintendent of Banking.  

Payment of Dividends by Regions. The ability of Regions to pay dividends to its stockholders is not totally dependent on the receipt of dividends from Regions Bank, as Regions has other cash available to make dividend payments. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $6.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents on a consolidated basis, of which $3.8 billion is attributable to the parent company. These funds are available for corporate purposes, including debt service and to pay dividends to its stockholders. This is compared to an anticipated common dividend requirement, assuming current dividend payment levels, of approximately $50 million and preferred cash dividends of approximately $175 million for the full year 2011. Expected long-term borrowings maturities in 2011 are approximately $6.0 billion, of which approximately $1.0 billion is attributable to the parent company.  

Although Regions currently has capacity to make common dividend payments in 2011, the payment of dividends by Regions and the dividend rate are subject to management review and approval by Regions’ Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Regions’ dividend payments are also subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. Under temporary guidance issued by the Federal Reserve in November 2010, the dividend policy of large bank holding companies, such as Regions, is reviewed by the Federal Reserve based on capital plans and stress tests as submitted by the bank holding company, and will be assessed against, among other things, the bank holding company’s ability to achieve the Basel III capital ratio requirements referred to above as they are phased in by U.S. regulators and any potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the company’s risk profile, business strategy, corporate structure or capital adequacy. The Federal Reserve’s current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies like Regions, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.  

Prior to November 14, 2011, unless Regions has redeemed all of the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (“Series A Preferred Stock”), issued to the U.S. Treasury on November 14, 2008 or unless the U.S. Treasury has transferred all the preferred securities to a third party, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for Regions to declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on common stock other than (i) regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than $0.10 per share, as adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction, (ii) dividends payable solely in shares of common stock and (iii) dividends or distributions of rights or junior stock in connection with a stockholders’ rights plan. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Support of Subsidiary Banks  

Under longstanding Federal Reserve policy which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, Regions is expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, its subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when Regions may not be inclined to provide it. In addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.  

Cross-Guarantee Provisions  

Each insured depository institution “controlled” (as defined in the BHC Act) by the same bank holding company can be held liable to the FDIC for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of any other insured depository institution controlled by that holding company and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to any of those banks that is in danger of default. Such a cross-guarantee claim against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against that depository institution. At this time, Regions Bank is the only insured depository institution controlled by Regions for this purpose. If in the future, however, Regions were to control other insured depository institutions, such cross-guarantee claims would apply to all such insured depository institutions.  

Transactions with Affiliates  

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which Regions and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise obtain funding from Regions Bank. In general, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Regulation W require that any “covered transaction” by Regions Bank (or its subsidiaries) with an affiliate must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and must be limited to (a) in the case of any single such affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of Regions Bank and its subsidiaries may not exceed 10 percent of the capital stock and surplus of Regions Bank, and (b) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of Regions Bank and its subsidiaries may not exceed 20 percent of the capital stock and surplus of Regions Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expands the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization. For example, commencing in July 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act will require that the 10 percent of capital limit on covered transactions begin to apply to financial subsidiaries. “Covered transactions” are defined by statute to include, among other things, a loan or extension of credit, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve) from the affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. All covered transactions, including certain additional transactions (such as transactions with a third party in which an affiliate has a financial interest), must be conducted on market terms.  

FDIC Insurance Assessments  

Deposit Insurance Assessments. Regions Bank pays deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC based on an assessment rate established by the FDIC. FDIC assessment rates generally depend upon a combination of regulatory ratings and financial ratios. Regulatory ratings reflect the applicable bank regulatory agency’s evaluation of the financial institution’s capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk (“CAMELS”). The assessment rate for large institutions with long-term debt issuer ratings, such as Regions, is currently determined using a combination of the institution’s weighted average regulatory ratings, its long-term debt issuer ratings and the institution’s financial ratios, each equally weighted. Assessment rates for institutions that are in the lowest risk category currently vary from seven to twenty-four basis points per $100 of insured deposits, and may be increased or decreased by the FDIC on a semi-annual basis. Such base assessment rates are subject to adjustments based upon the institution’s ratio of (i) long-term unsecured debt to its domestic deposits, (ii) secured liabilities to domestic deposits and (iii) brokered deposits to domestic deposits (if greater than 10 percent).  

13  

Table of Contents 

In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule (the “New Assessment Rule”) to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The New Assessment Rule creates a two scorecard system for large institutions, one for most large institutions that have more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank, and another for “highly complex” institutions that have over $50 billion in assets and are fully owned by a parent with over $500 billion in assets. Each scorecard will have a performance score and a loss-severity score that will be combined to produce a total score, which will be translated into an initial assessment rate. In calculating these scores, the FDIC will continue to utilize the bank’s supervisory (CAMELS) ratings and will introduce certain new forward-looking financial measures to assess an institution’s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The New Assessment Rule also eliminates the use of risk categories and long-term debt issuer ratings for calculating risk-based assessments for institutions having more than $10 billion in assets. The FDIC will continue to have the ability under the New Assessment Rule to make discretionary adjustments to the total score, up or down, based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the scorecard. The total score will then translate to an initial base assessment rate on a non-linear, sharply-increasing scale. The New Assessment Rule preserves the adjustments to an institution’s base assessment rates based on its long-term unsecured debt and brokered deposits (if greater than 10%) and creates a new adjustment based on the institution’s holdings of long-term unsecured debt issued by a different insured depository institution. The New Assessment Rule eliminates the adjustment to an institution’s base assessment rate based on the its secured liabilities. The final rule will be effective April 1, 2011.  

Regions Bank’s deposit insurance assessments are currently based on the total domestic deposits held by Regions Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to amend its regulations to base insurance assessments on the average consolidated assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. Under the New Assessment Rule, which implements these requirements effective April 1, 2011, assessments paid by Regions Bank are expected to increase.  

On November 17, 2009, the FDIC implemented a final rule requiring insured institutions, such as Regions Bank, to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Such prepaid assessments were paid on December 30, 2009, along with each institution’s quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009 (assuming 5 percent annual growth in deposits between the third quarter of 2009 and the end of 2012 and taking into account, for 2011 and 2012, the annualized three basis point increase discussed below).  

The FDIA establishes a minimum ratio of deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits, the designated reserve ratio (the “DRR”), of 1.15 percent prior to September 2020 and 1.35 percent thereafter. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC issued a final rule setting the DRR at 2 percent. Because the DRR fell below 1.15 percent as of June 30, 2008, and was expected to remain below 1.15 percent the FDIC was required to establish and implement a Restoration Plan that would restore the reserve ratio to at least 1.15 percent within five years. In October 2008, the FDIC adopted such a restoration plan (the “Restoration Plan”). In February 2009, in light of the extraordinary challenges facing the banking industry, the FDIC amended the Restoration Plan to allow seven years for the reserve ratio to return to 1.15 percent. In May 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposed a five basis point special assessment on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital (as of June 30, 2009). Such special assessment was collected on September 30, 2009. In October 2009, the FDIC passed a final rule extending the term of the Restoration Plan to eight years. Such final rule also included a provision that implements a uniform three basis point increase in assessment rates, effective January 1, 2011, to help ensure that the reserve ratio returns to at least 1.15 percent within the eight year period called for by the Restoration Plan. In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a new restoration plan to ensure the DRR reaches 1.35 percent by September 2020. As part of the revised plan, the FDIC will forego the uniform three-basis point increase in assessment rates scheduled to take place in January 2011. The FDIC will, at least semi-annually, update its income and loss projections for the DIF and, if necessary, propose rules to further increase assessment rates. In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC announced that it would seek public comment on whether banks with compensation plans that encourage risky behavior should be charged higher deposit assessment rates than such banks would otherwise be charged. See also “—Incentive Compensation” below.  

14  

Table of Contents 

We cannot predict whether, as a result of an adverse change in economic conditions or other reasons, the FDIC will in the future further increase deposit insurance assessment levels. For more information, see the “FDIC Premiums and Special Assessment” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC.  

FICO Assessments. In addition, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF applicable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO will be in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedules. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. The FICO annual assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2010 was 1.04 cents per $100 deposits and will decline to 1.02 cents per $100 deposits for the first quarter of 2011. Regions Bank had a FICO assessment of $10 million in FDIC deposit premiums in 2010.  

Acquisitions  

The BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control 5 percent or more of the voting shares of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. Effective July 2011, financial holding companies and bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion must (i) obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain nonbank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Bank holding companies seeking approval to complete an acquisition must be well-capitalized and well-managed effective July 2011.  

The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues includes the parties’ performance under the CRA, both of which are discussed below. In addition, the Federal Reserve must take into account the institutions’ effectiveness in combating money laundering.  

FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program  

In October 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the “TLGP”), under which the FDIC would guarantee certain senior unsecured debt of FDIC-insured U.S. depository institutions and U.S. bank holding companies as well as non-interest bearing transaction account deposits at FDIC-insured U.S. depository institutions, unless such institutions opted out of the program. Regions and Regions Bank both participated in the TLGP. Although the guarantee of non-interest bearing transaction account deposits under the  

15  

Table of Contents 

 TLGP ended on June 30, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for unlimited FDIC deposit insurance coverage on non-interest bearing transaction accounts at all insured institutions, regardless of participation in the TLGP, until January 1, 2013.  

On December 11, 2008, Regions Bank issued and sold $3.5 billion aggregate principal amount of its senior bank notes guaranteed under the TLGP. Regions Bank issued and sold an additional $250 million aggregate principal amount of FDIC-guaranteed senior bank notes on December 16, 2008. Under the TLGP, the FDIC will pay the unpaid principal and interest on such FDIC-guaranteed debt instruments upon the uncured failure of Regions Bank to make a timely payment of principal or interest. Neither Regions nor Regions Bank is permitted to use the proceeds from the sale of securities guaranteed under the TLGP to prepay any of its other debt that is not guaranteed by the FDIC.  

U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program  

Pursuant to the CPP, on November 14, 2008, Regions issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury in a private offering, (i) 3.5 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock and (ii) a warrant (the “Warrant”) to purchase 48,253,677 shares of Regions’ common stock, at an exercise price of $10.88 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments, for an aggregate purchase price of $3.5 billion in cash. The securities purchase agreement, dated November 14, 2008, pursuant to which the securities issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP were sold, limits the payment of dividends on Regions’ common stock to $0.10 per share without prior approval of the U.S. Treasury, limits Regions’ ability to repurchase shares of its common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards), grants the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Warrant and the common stock of Regions to be issued under the Warrant certain registration rights in order to facilitate resale, and subjects Regions to certain of the executive compensation limitations included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”).  

Depositor Preference  

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver.  

Incentive Compensation  

Guidelines adopted by the federal banking agencies pursuant to the FDIA prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder.  

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies (the “Incentive Compensation Guidance”) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The Incentive Compensation Guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The Incentive Compensation Guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation  

16  

Table of Contents 

 arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies.  

In February 2011, the Federal Reserve and other federal banking agencies requested comments on a notice of proposed rulemaking designed to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act prohibiting incentive compensation arrangements that would encourage inappropriate risk taking at a covered institution, which includes a bank or bank holding company with $1.0 billion or more of assets, such as Regions and Regions Bank. The proposed rule (i) prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders to expose the institution to inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation (based on the standards for excessive compensation adopted pursuant to the FDIA) and (ii) prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements for executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders that could lead to a material financial loss for the institution. The proposed rule requires covered institutions to establish policies and procedures for monitoring and evaluating their compensation practices. Institutions with consolidated assets of $50.0 billion or more, such as Regions, are subject to additional restrictions on compensation arrangements for their executive officers and any other persons indentified by the institution’s board of directors as having the ability to expose the institution to substantial losses.  

In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC announced that it would seek public comment on whether banks with compensation plans that encourage risky behavior should be charged higher deposit assessment rates than such banks would otherwise be charged.  

The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators’ policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of Regions and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees.  

Orderly Liquidation Authority  

The Dodd-Frank Act creates the Orderly Liquidation Authority (“OLA”), a resolution regime for systemically important non-bank financial companies, including bank holding companies, under which the FDIC may be appointed receiver to liquidate such a company if the company is in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. This determination must come after supermajority recommendations by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC and consultation between the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury and the President. This resolution authority is similar to the FDIC resolution model for depository institutions, with certain modifications to reflect differences between depository institutions and non-bank financial companies and to reduce disparities between the treatment of creditors’ claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in an orderly liquidation authority proceeding compared to those that would exist under the resolution model for insured depository institutions.  

An Orderly Liquidation Fund will fund OLA liquidation proceedings through borrowings from the Treasury Department and risk-based assessments made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50.0 billion or more, such as Regions. If an orderly liquidation is triggered, Regions could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. We do not yet have an indication of the level of such assessments.  

Financial Privacy  

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer  

17  

Table of Contents 

 information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services.  

Community Reinvestment Act  

Regions Bank is subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, Regions Bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. The CRA requires each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a depository institution, to assess such institution’s record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The regulatory agency’s assessment of the institution’s record is made available to the public. The assessment also is part of the Federal Reserve’s consideration of applications to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. Regions Bank received a “satisfactory” CRA rating in its most recent examination.  

USA PATRIOT Act  

A focus of governmental policy relating to financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “USA PATRIOT Act”) broadened the application of anti-money laundering regulations to apply to additional types of financial institutions such as broker-dealers, investment advisors and insurance companies, and strengthened the ability of the U.S. Government to help prevent, detect and prosecute international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The principal provisions of Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act require that regulated financial institutions, including state member banks: (i) establish an anti-money laundering program that includes training and audit components; (ii) comply with regulations regarding the verification of the identity of any person seeking to open an account; (iii) take additional required precautions with non-U.S. owned accounts; and (iv) perform certain verification and certification of money laundering risk for their foreign correspondent banking relationships. Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA PATRIOT Act’s requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Regions’ banking, broker-dealer and insurance subsidiaries have augmented their systems and procedures to meet the requirements of these regulations and will continue to revise and update their policies, procedures and controls to reflect changes required by the USA PATRIOT Act and implementing regulations.  

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation  

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on “U.S. persons” engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to,  

18  

Table of Contents 

 a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences.  

Regulation of Insurers and Insurance Brokers  

Regions’ operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws generally grant broad discretion to regulatory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. This supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling of customer funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Certain of Regions’ insurance company subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory supervision and to insurance laws and regulations requiring, among other things, maintenance of capital, record keeping, reporting and examinations.  

Regulation of Morgan Keegan  

Morgan Keegan is subject to regulation and examination by the SEC, FINRA, NYSE and other SROs. Such regulations cover a broad range of subject matter. Rules and regulations for registered broker-dealers cover such issues as: capital requirements; sales and trading practices; use of client funds and securities; the conduct of directors, officers and employees; record-keeping and recording; supervisory procedures to prevent improper trading on material non-public information; qualification and licensing of sales personnel; and limitations on the extension of credit in securities transactions. Rules and regulations for registered investment advisers include limitations on the ability of investment advisers to charge performance-based or non-refundable fees to clients, record-keeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on principal transactions between an adviser or its affiliates and advisory clients, and anti-fraud standards.  

Morgan Keegan is subject to the net capital requirements set forth in Rule 15c3-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The net capital requirements measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer by specifying a minimum level of net capital that a broker-dealer must maintain, and by requiring that a significant portion of its assets be kept liquid. If Morgan Keegan failed to maintain its minimum required net capital, it would be required to cease executing customer transactions until it came back into compliance. This could also result in Morgan Keegan losing its FINRA membership, its registration with the SEC or require a complete liquidation.  

The SEC’s risk assessment rules also apply to Morgan Keegan as a registered broker-dealer. These rules require broker-dealers to maintain and preserve records and certain information, describe risk management policies and procedures, and report on the financial condition of affiliates whose financial and securities activities are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial and operational condition of the broker-dealer. Certain “material associated persons” of Morgan Keegan, as defined in the risk assessment rules, may also be subject to SEC regulation.  

In addition to federal registration, state securities commissions require the registration of certain broker-dealers and investment advisers. Morgan Keegan is registered as a broker-dealer with every state, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Morgan Keegan is registered as an investment adviser in over 40 states and the District of Columbia.  

Violations of federal, state and SRO rules or regulations may result in the revocation of broker-dealer or investment adviser licenses, imposition of censures or fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders, and the suspension or expulsion of officers and employees from the securities business firm.  

19  

Table of Contents 

The Dodd-Frank Act contains several provisions which may affect Morgan Keegan’s business, including registration of municipal advisors, increased regulation of investment advisors and conducting a study regarding the fiduciary duties of investment advisors. Morgan Keegan’s business may be adversely affected by new rules and regulations issued by the SEC or SROs, the implementation of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act applicable to Morgan Keegan, and any changes in the enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect its securities business.  

Competition  

All aspects of Regions’ business are highly competitive. Regions’ subsidiaries compete with other financial institutions located in the states in which they operate and other adjoining states, as well as large banks in major financial centers and other financial intermediaries, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, investment companies, mutual funds, mortgage companies and financial service operations of major commercial and retail corporations. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies.  

Customers for banking services and other financial services offered by Regions’ subsidiaries are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, price of services and availability of products. Although Regions’ position varies in different markets, Regions believes that its affiliates effectively compete with other financial services companies in their relevant market areas.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2010, Regions and its subsidiaries had 27,829 employees.  

Available Information  

Regions maintains a website at www.regions.com. Regions makes available on its website free of charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports which are filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These documents are made available on Regions’ website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available on the website are Regions’ (i) Corporate Governance Principles, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, (iii) Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, (iv) Expenditures Policy, and (v) the charters of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Risk Committee.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors