PART I

Item 1. Business

General

Equity Residential (“EQR”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed in March 1993, is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top United States growth markets. ERP Operating Limited Partnership (“ERPOP”), an Illinois limited partnership, was formed in May 1993 to conduct the multifamily residential property business of Equity Residential. EQR has elected to be taxed as a REIT. References to the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean collectively EQR, ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by EQR and/or ERPOP. References to the “Operating Partnership” mean collectively ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by ERPOP.

EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2013 owned an approximate 96.2% ownership interest in, ERPOP. All of the Company's property ownership, development and related business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and EQR has no material assets or liabilities other than its investment in ERPOP. EQR issues equity from time to time but does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of the assets of the Company, including the Company's ownership interests in its joint ventures. The Operating Partnership conducts the operations of the business and is structured as a partnership with no publicly traded equity. 

As of December 31, 2013, the Company, directly or indirectly through investments in title holding entities, owned all or a portion of 390 properties located in 12 states and the District of Columbia consisting of 109,855 apartment units. The ownership breakdown includes (table does not include various uncompleted development properties):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company's corporate headquarters are located in Chicago, Illinois and the Company also operates property management offices in each of its markets. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately 3,600 employees who provided real estate operations, leasing, legal, financial, accounting, acquisition, disposition, development and other support functions.

Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures.

Available Information

You may access our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to any of those reports we file with the SEC free of charge at our website, www.equityresidential.com. These reports are made available at our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the SEC. The information contained on our website, including any information referred to in this report as being available on our website, is not a part of or incorporated into this report.

Business Objectives and Operating and Investing Strategies

The Company invests in high quality apartment communities located in strategically targeted markets with the goal of maximizing our risk adjusted total return (operating income plus capital appreciation) on invested capital. 

We seek to maximize the income and capital appreciation of our properties by investing in markets that are characterized by conditions favorable to multifamily property appreciation. We are focused primarily on the six core coastal, high barrier to entry markets of Boston, New York, Washington DC, Southern California (including Los Angeles, Orange County and San Diego), San Francisco and Seattle. These markets generally feature one or more of the following characteristics that allow us to increase 

7
rents:

▪High barriers to entry where, because of land scarcity or government regulation, it is difficult or costly to build new apartment properties, creating limits on new supply; 

▪High home ownership costs;

▪Strong economic growth leading to job growth and household formation, which in turn leads to high demand for our apartments;

▪Urban core locations with an attractive quality of life and higher wage job categories leading to high resident demand and retention; and

▪Favorable demographics contributing to a larger pool of target residents with a high propensity to rent apartments. 

Our operating focus is on balancing occupancy and rental rates to maximize our revenue while exercising tight cost control to generate the highest possible return to our shareholders. Revenue is maximized by attracting qualified prospects to our properties, cost-effectively converting these prospects into new residents and keeping our residents satisfied so they will renew their leases upon expiration. While we believe that it is our high-quality, well-located assets that bring our customers to us, it is the customer service and superior value provided by our on-site personnel that keeps them renting with us and recommending us to their friends. 

We use technology to engage our customers in the way that they want to be engaged. Many of our residents utilize our web-based resident portal which allows them to sign and renew their leases, review their accounts and make payments, provide feedback and make service requests on-line.

Acquisitions and developments may be financed from various sources of capital, which may include retained cash flow, issuance of additional equity and debt, sales of properties and joint venture agreements. In addition, the Company may acquire properties in transactions that include the issuance of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership (“OP Units”) as consideration for the acquired properties. Such transactions may, in certain circumstances, enable the sellers to defer, in whole or in part, the recognition of taxable income or gain that might otherwise result from the sales. The Company may acquire land parcels to hold and/or sell based on market opportunities as well as options to buy more land in the future. The Company may also seek to acquire properties by purchasing defaulted or distressed debt that encumbers desirable properties in the hope of obtaining title to property through foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure proceedings. The Company has also, in the past, converted some of its properties and sold them as condominiums but is not currently active in this line of business.

Over the past several years, the Company has done an extensive repositioning of its portfolio from low barrier to entry/non-core markets to high barrier to entry/core markets. Since 2005, the Company has sold over 162,000 apartment units primarily in its non-core markets for an aggregate sales price of approximately $15.6 billion, acquired over 66,000 apartment units primarily in its core markets for approximately $19.0 billion and began approximately $4.1 billion of development projects primarily in its core markets. We are currently seeking to acquire and develop assets primarily in the following six core coastal metropolitan areas: Boston, New York, Washington DC, Southern California, San Francisco and Seattle. We also have investments (in the aggregate about 11.9% of our NOI at December 31, 2013) in the two core markets of South Florida and Denver but do not currently intend to acquire or develop new assets in these markets. Further, we are in the process of exiting Phoenix and Orlando and will use sales proceeds from these markets to acquire and/or develop new assets and for other corporate purposes. 

As part of its strategy, the Company purchases completed and fully occupied apartment properties, partially completed or partially occupied properties and takes options on land or acquires land on which apartment properties can be constructed. We intend to hold a diversified portfolio of assets across our target markets. As of December 31, 2013, no single market/metropolitan area accounted for more than 18.6% of our NOI, though no guarantee can be made that NOI concentration may not increase in the future. 

We endeavor to attract and retain the best employees by providing them with the education, resources and opportunities to succeed. We provide many classroom and on-line training courses to assist our employees in interacting with prospects and residents as well as extensively train our customer service specialists in maintaining our properties and improvements, equipment and appliances. We actively promote from within and many senior corporate and property leaders have risen from entry level or junior positions. We monitor our employees' engagement by surveying them annually and have consistently received high engagement scores.

We have a commitment to sustainability and consider the environmental impacts of our business activities. Sustainability and social responsibility are key drivers in our focus in creating the best apartment communities for residents to live, work and play. We have a dedicated in-house team that initiates and applies sustainable practices in all aspects of our business, including investment activities, development, property operations and property management activities. With its high density, multifamily 

8
housing is, by its nature, an environmentally friendly property type. Our recent acquisition and development activities have been primarily concentrated in pedestrian-friendly urban locations near public transportation. When developing and renovating our properties, we strive to reduce energy and water usage by investing in energy saving technology while positively impacting the experience of our residents and the value of our assets. We continue to implement a combination of irrigation, lighting, HVAC and renewable energy improvements at our properties that will reduce energy and water consumption. For additional information regarding our sustainability efforts, see our December 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report at our website, www.equityresidential.com.

Competition

All of the Company's properties are located in developed areas that include other multifamily properties. The number of competitive multifamily properties in a particular area could have a material effect on the Company's ability to lease apartment units at its properties and on the rents charged. The Company may be competing with other entities that have greater resources than the Company and whose managers have more experience than the Company's managers. In addition, other forms of rental properties and single family housing provide housing alternatives to potential residents of multifamily properties. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information with respect to competition.

Archstone Transaction

On February 27, 2013, the Company, AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (“AVB”) and certain of their respective subsidiaries completed their previously announced acquisition (the “Archstone Acquisition” or the "Archstone Transaction") from Archstone Enterprise LP (“Enterprise”) (which subsequently changed its name to Jupiter Enterprise LP), an affiliate of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. (“Lehman”) and its affiliates, of all of the assets of Enterprise (including interests in various entities affiliated with Enterprise), constituting a portfolio of apartment properties and other assets (the “Archstone Portfolio”). As a result of the Archstone Acquisition, the Company owns assets representing approximately 60% of the Archstone Portfolio. The consideration paid by the Company in connection with the Archstone Acquisition consisted of cash of approximately $4.0 billion (inclusive of $2.0 billion of Archstone secured mortgage principal paid off in conjunction with the closing), 34,468,085 Common Shares (which shares had a total value of $1.9 billion based on the February 27, 2013 closing price of EQR common shares of $55.99 per share) issued to the seller and the assumption of approximately $3.1 billion of mortgage debt (inclusive of a net mark-to-market premium of $127.9 million) and approximately 60% of all of the other assets and liabilities related to the Archstone Portfolio. See Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Debt and Equity Activity

EQR issues public equity from time to time and guarantees certain debt of ERPOP. EQR does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership. In addition, ERPOP issues OP Units and preference interests ("Preference Units") from time to time.

Please refer to Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for the Company’s and the Operating Partnership's Capital Structure charts as of December 31, 2013.

Major Debt and Equity Activities for the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 

During 2013:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪The Company paid down $825.0 million of Pool 3 mortgage debt and repaid $963.5 million of Pool 4 mortgage debt. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪The Company obtained an $800.0 million secured loan from a large insurance company which matures on November 10, 

9
2023, is interest only and carries a fixed interest rate of 4.21% and was used in part to pay down Pool 3.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪The Company issued 34,468,085 Common Shares to an affiliate of Lehman having a value of $1.9 billion (based on the February 27, 2013 closing price of EQR Common Shares of $55.99 per share) as partial consideration for the portion of the Archstone Portfolio acquired by the Company. Lehman has since sold all of these Common Shares.

▪The Company issued 586,017 Common Shares pursuant to its Share Incentive Plans and received net proceeds of approximately $17.3 million.

▪The Company issued 73,468 Common Shares pursuant to its Employee Share Purchase Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $3.4 million.

During 2012:

•The Company repaid $253.9 million of 6.625% unsecured notes and $222.1 million of 5.500% unsecured notes, both at maturity.

•The Company repaid its $500.0 million term loan at maturity. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪The Company issued 3,173,919 Common Shares at an average price of $60.59 per share for total consideration of $192.3 million pursuant to its At-The-Market (“ATM”) share offering program. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

▪The Company issued 1,608,427 Common Shares pursuant to its Share Incentive Plans and received net proceeds of approximately $49.0 million.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪The Company issued 110,054 Common Shares pursuant to its Employee Share Purchase Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $5.4 million.

▪The Company redeemed its Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares for cash consideration of $150.0 million plus accrued dividends through the redemption date.

During 2011:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪The Company issued 3,866,666 Common Shares at an average price of $52.23 per share for total consideration of $201.9 million pursuant to its ATM share offering program. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

▪The Company issued 2,945,948 Common Shares pursuant to its Share Incentive Plans and received net proceeds of approximately $95.3 million.

10
▪The Company issued 113,107 Common Shares pursuant to its Employee Share Purchase Plan and received net proceeds of approximately $5.3 million.

An unspecified amount of equity and debt securities remains available for issuance by EQR and ERPOP under a universal shelf registration statement that automatically became effective upon filing with the SEC on July 30, 2013 and expires on July 30, 2016. In July 2013, the Board of Trustees also approved an increase to the amount of shares which may be offered under the ATM program to 13.0 million Common Shares and extended the program maturity to July 2016. Per the terms of ERPOP's partnership agreement, EQR contributes the net proceeds of all equity offerings to the capital of ERPOP in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis) or preference units (on a one-for-one preferred share per preference unit basis).

On June 16, 2011, the shareholders of EQR approved the Company's 2011 Share Incentive Plan, as amended (the "2011 Plan"), and the Company filed a Form S-8 registration statement to register 12,980,741 Common Shares under this plan. As of December 31, 2013, 9,562,775 shares were available for future issuance. See Note 12 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Credit Facilities

EQR does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership. EQR guarantees the Operating Partnership’s $750.0 million senior unsecured delayed draw term loan facility and also guarantees the Operating Partnership’s revolving credit facility up to the maximum amount and for the full term of the facility.

In July 2011, the Company replaced its then existing $1.425 billion unsecured revolving credit facility which was scheduled to mature in February 2012 with a new $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on July 13, 2014, subject to a one-year extension option exercisable by the Company. The Company had the ability to increase available borrowings by an additional $500.0 million by adding additional banks to the facility or obtaining the agreement of existing banks to increase their commitments. On January 6, 2012, the Company amended this credit facility to increase available borrowings by an additional $500.0 million to $1.75 billion with all other terms, including the July 13, 2014 maturity date, remaining the same. The interest rate on advances under the credit facility was generally LIBOR plus a spread (1.15%) and the Company paid an annual facility fee of 0.2%. Both the spread and the facility fee were dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt. On January 11, 2013, the Company replaced its existing $1.75 billion credit facility with a new $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing April 1, 2018. The interest rate on advances under the new credit facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 1.05%) and an annual facility fee (currently 15 basis points). Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt.

As of February 21, 2014, the amount available on the $2.5 billion credit facility was $2.1 billion (net of $34.9 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and net of $360.0 million outstanding). As of December 31, 2013, the amount available on the $2.5 billion credit facility was $2.35 billion (net of $34.9 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and net of $115.0 million outstanding). During the year ended December 31, 2013, the weighted average interest rate was 1.26%. As of December 31, 2012, the amount available on the $1.75 billion credit facility was $1.72 billion (net of $30.2 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit) and there was no amount outstanding. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the weighted average interest rate was 1.35%. 

Environmental Considerations

See Item 1A. Risk Factors for information concerning the potential effects of environmental regulations on our operations.

Item 1A. Risk Factors