Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of the Company and the Operating Partnership should be read in connection with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Due to the Company's ability to control the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes, except for one unconsolidated development property, four unconsolidated operating properties and our military housing properties. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined are as defined elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.

Forward-Looking Statements

Forward-looking statements in this Item 7 as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While the Company's management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. The forward-looking statements contained herein are made as of the date hereof and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or supplement these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to the following:

▪We intend to actively acquire, develop and rehab multifamily properties for rental operations as market conditions dictate. We may also acquire multifamily properties that are unoccupied or in the early stages of lease up. We may 

37
be unable to lease up these apartment properties on schedule, resulting in decreases in expected rental revenues and/or lower yields due to lower occupancy and rates as well as higher than expected concessions. We may not be able to achieve rents that are consistent with expectations for acquired, developed or rehabbed properties. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position, to complete a development property or to complete a rehab. Additionally, we expect that other real estate investors with capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our development and acquisition efforts. This competition (or lack thereof) may increase (or depress) prices for multifamily properties. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. We have acquired in the past and intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios, that could increase our size and result in alterations to our capital structure. The total number of apartment units under development, costs of development and estimated completion dates are subject to uncertainties arising from changing economic conditions (such as the cost of labor and construction materials), competition and local government regulation;

▪Debt financing and other capital required by the Company may not be available or may only be available on adverse terms;

▪Labor and materials required for maintenance, repair, capital expenditure or development may be more expensive than anticipated;

▪Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction and excess inventory of multifamily and single family housing, increasing portions of single family housing stock being converted to rental use, rental housing subsidized by the government, other government programs that favor single family rental housing or owner occupied housing over multifamily rental housing, governmental regulations, slow or negative employment growth and household formation, the availability of low-interest mortgages or the availability of mortgages requiring little or no down payment for single family home buyers, changes in social preferences and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond the Company's control; and

▪Additional factors as discussed in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those under “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

Forward-looking statements and related uncertainties are also included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Overview

Equity Residential (“EQR”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed in March 1993, is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of high quality apartment properties in top United States growth markets. ERP Operating Limited Partnership (“ERPOP”), an Illinois limited partnership, was formed in May 1993 to conduct the multifamily residential property business of Equity Residential. EQR has elected to be taxed as a REIT. References to the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean collectively EQR, ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by EQR and/or ERPOP. References to the “Operating Partnership” mean collectively ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by ERPOP.

 EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2013 owned an approximate 96.2% ownership interest in, ERPOP. All of the Company's property ownership, development and related business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and EQR has no material assets or liabilities other than its investment in ERPOP. EQR issues equity from time to time but does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of the assets of the Company, including the Company's ownership interests in its joint ventures. The Operating Partnership conducts the operations of the business and is structured as a partnership with no publicly traded equity. 

The Company's corporate headquarters are located in Chicago, Illinois and the Company also operates property management offices in each of its markets. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately 3,600 employees who provided real estate operations, leasing, legal, financial, accounting, acquisition, disposition, development and other support functions.

Business Objectives and Operating and Investing Strategies

The Company invests in high quality apartment communities located in strategically targeted markets with the goal of maximizing our risk adjusted total return (operating income plus capital appreciation) on invested capital.

38
We seek to maximize the income and capital appreciation of our properties by investing in markets that are characterized by conditions favorable to multifamily property appreciation. We are focused primarily on the six core coastal, high barrier to entry markets of Boston, New York, Washington DC, Southern California (including Los Angeles, Orange County and San Diego), San Francisco and Seattle. These markets generally feature one or more of the following characteristics that allow us to increase rents:

▪High barriers to entry where, because of land scarcity or government regulation, it is difficult or costly to build new apartment properties, creating limits on new supply; 

▪High home ownership costs;

▪Strong economic growth leading to job growth and household formation, which in turn leads to high demand for our apartments;

▪Urban core locations with an attractive quality of life and higher wage job categories leading to high resident demand and retention; and

▪Favorable demographics contributing to a larger pool of target residents with a high propensity to rent apartments. 

Our operating focus is on balancing occupancy and rental rates to maximize our revenue while exercising tight cost control to generate the highest possible return to our shareholders. Revenue is maximized by attracting qualified prospects to our properties, cost-effectively converting these prospects into new residents and keeping our residents satisfied so they will renew their leases upon expiration. While we believe that it is our high-quality, well-located assets that bring our customers to us, it is the customer service and superior value provided by our on-site personnel that keeps them renting with us and recommending us to their friends.

We use technology to engage our customers in the way that they want to be engaged. Many of our residents utilize our web-based resident portal which allows them to sign and renew their leases, review their accounts and make payments, provide feedback and make service requests on-line. 

Acquisitions and developments may be financed from various sources of capital, which may include retained cash flow, issuance of additional equity and debt, sales of properties and joint venture agreements. In addition, the Company may acquire properties in transactions that include the issuance of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership (“OP Units”) as consideration for the acquired properties. Such transactions may, in certain circumstances, enable the sellers to defer, in whole or in part, the recognition of taxable income or gain that might otherwise result from the sales. The Company may acquire land parcels to hold and/or sell based on market opportunities as well as options to buy more land in the future. The Company may also seek to acquire properties by purchasing defaulted or distressed debt that encumbers desirable properties in the hope of obtaining title to property through foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure proceedings. The Company has also, in the past, converted some of its properties and sold them as condominiums but is not currently active in this line of business.

Over the past several years, the Company has done an extensive repositioning of its portfolio from low barrier to entry/non-core markets to high barrier to entry/core markets. Since 2005, the Company has sold over 162,000 apartment units primarily in its non-core markets for an aggregate sales price of approximately $15.6 billion, acquired over 66,000 apartment units primarily in its core markets for approximately $19.0 billion and began approximately $4.1 billion of development projects primarily in its core markets. We are currently seeking to acquire and develop assets primarily in the following six core coastal metropolitan areas: Boston, New York, Washington DC, Southern California, San Francisco and Seattle. We also have investments (in the aggregate about 11.9% of our NOI at December 31, 2013) in the two core markets of South Florida and Denver but do not currently intend to acquire or develop new assets in these markets. Further, we are in the process of exiting Phoenix and Orlando and will use sales proceeds from these markets to acquire and/or develop new assets and for other corporate purposes.

As part of its strategy, the Company purchases completed and fully occupied apartment properties, partially completed or partially occupied properties and takes options on land or acquires land on which apartment properties can be constructed. We intend to hold a diversified portfolio of assets across our target markets. As of December 31, 2013, no single market/metropolitan area accounted for more than 18.6% of our NOI, though no guarantee can be made that NOI concentration may not increase in the future.

We endeavor to attract and retain the best employees by providing them with the education, resources and opportunities to succeed. We provide many classroom and on-line training courses to assist our employees in interacting with prospects and residents as well as extensively train our customer service specialists in maintaining our properties and improvements, equipment and appliances. We actively promote from within and many senior corporate and property leaders have risen from entry level or 

39
junior positions. We monitor our employees' engagement by surveying them annually and have consistently received high engagement scores.

We have a commitment to sustainability and consider the environmental impacts of our business activities. Sustainability and social responsibility are key drivers in our focus in creating the best apartment communities for residents to live, work and play. We have a dedicated in-house team that initiates and applies sustainable practices in all aspects of our business, including investment activities, development, property operations and property management activities. With its high density, multifamily housing is, by its nature, an environmentally friendly property type. Our recent acquisition and development activities have been primarily concentrated in pedestrian-friendly urban locations near public transportation. When developing and renovating our properties, we strive to reduce energy and water usage by investing in energy saving technology while positively impacting the experience of our residents and the value of our assets. We continue to implement a combination of irrigation, lighting, HVAC and renewable energy improvements at our properties that will reduce energy and water consumption. For additional information regarding our sustainability efforts, see our December 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report at our website, www.equityresidential.com.

Current Environment

On February 27, 2013, the Company, AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (“AVB”) and certain of their respective subsidiaries completed their previously-announced acquisition (the “Archstone Acquisition” or the “Archstone Transaction”) from Archstone Enterprise LP (“Enterprise”) (which subsequently changed its name to Jupiter Enterprise LP), an affiliate of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. (“Lehman”) and its affiliates, of all of the assets and liabilities of Enterprise (including interests in various entities affiliated with Enterprise), constituting a portfolio of apartment properties and other assets (the “Archstone Portfolio”). As a result of the Archstone Acquisition, the Company owns assets representing approximately 60% of the Archstone Portfolio. The consideration paid by the Company in connection with the Archstone Acquisition consisted of cash in the amount of approximately $4.0 billion (inclusive of $2.0 billion of Archstone secured mortgage principal paid off in conjunction with the closing), 34,468,085 Common Shares (which shares had a total value of $1.9 billion based on the acquisition date closing price of EQR's Common Shares of $55.99 per share) and the assumption of $3.1 billion of mortgage debt (inclusive of a net mark-to-market premium of $127.9 million) and approximately 60% of all of the other assets and liabilities related to the Archstone Portfolio. On February 18, 2014, Lehman publicly announced that it had sold the remaining Common Shares issued by the Company as partial consideration for the portion of the Archstone Portfolio acquired by the Company.

During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company acquired 73 consolidated properties consisting of 20,914 apartment units, one unconsolidated property consisting of 336 apartment units, three consolidated master-leased properties consisting of 853 apartment units, four projects in various stages of development (two consolidated and two unconsolidated) and 15 land parcels for $9.1 billion. All but one of these properties and all but one of these land parcels were acquired in conjunction with the Archstone Transaction and the Company has completed the integration of these properties and their operations. We believe our access to capital, our ability to execute large, complex transactions and our ability to efficiently stabilize large scale lease up properties provide us with a competitive advantage, which was demonstrated in the Archstone Transaction. The Company currently budgets consolidated acquisitions of approximately $500.0 million during the year ending December 31, 2014 to be funded with proceeds from dispositions (see discussion below).

The Company started construction on seven projects representing 2,213 apartment units totaling approximately $880.9 million of development costs during the year ended December 31, 2013. The Company expects to increase its development activity as compared to the past few years and has budgeted approximately $750.0 million of new apartment construction starts on land currently owned during each of the years ending December 31, 2014 and 2015. We currently budget spending approximately $575.0 million on development costs during the year ending December 31, 2014. This capital will be primarily sourced with excess operating cash flow and availability on our revolving credit facility.

The Company continues to sell non-core assets and reduce its exposure to non-core markets as we believe these assets will have lower long-term returns and we can sell them for prices that we believe are favorable. The Archstone Transaction provided an opportunity to accelerate this strategy and do so efficiently through the use of Section 1031 tax deferred exchanges. The Company sold 94 consolidated properties consisting of 29,180 apartment units, seven consolidated land parcels and one commercial building for $4.6 billion and one unconsolidated land parcel for $26.4 million (sales price for the unconsolidated land parcel is the gross sales price and EQR's share of the net sales proceeds approximated 25%) during the year ended December 31, 2013. These dispositions combined with reinvestment of the cash proceeds in assets with lower cap rates (see definition below) were dilutive to our earnings per share. The Company defines dilution from transactions as the lost NOI from sales proceeds that were not reinvested in other apartment properties or were reinvested in properties with a lower cap rate. The Company funded a significant portion of the cash purchase price of the Archstone Transaction with capital raised through these significant dispositions of assets. While this accelerated disposition program was dilutive to our per share results, it also significantly mitigated the execution risk 

40
on the Archstone Transaction. Beginning in 2014 and going forward, the Company expects a decrease in dilution due to our reduced disposition expectations and the locations of our planned dispositions. The Company currently budgets consolidated dispositions of approximately $500.0 million during the year ending December 31, 2014.

As a result of the Archstone Transaction and the property sales to help finance the transaction, the Company’s portfolio has changed significantly from the portfolio summary included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. The following table sets forth certain information by market relating to the Company's properties at December 31, 2013 as compared to December 31, 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Projects under development are not included in the Portfolio Summary until construction has been completed. 

(1)% of Stabilized NOI for the 12/31/12 Portfolio Summary includes budgeted 2013 NOI for stabilized properties, budgeted year one (March 2013 to February 2014) NOI for the Archstone properties and projected annual NOI at stabilization (defined as having achieved 90% occupancy for three consecutive months) for properties that are in lease-up.

(2)% of Stabilized NOI for the 12/31/13 Portfolio Summary includes budgeted 2014 NOI for stabilized properties (including the Archstone properties) and projected annual NOI at stabilization (defined as having achieved 90% occupancy for three consecutive months) for properties that are in lease-up.

(3)Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the last month of the period presented.

We currently have access to multiple sources of capital including the equity markets as well as both the secured and unsecured debt markets. In April 2013, the Company completed a $500.0 million unsecured ten year note offering with a coupon of 3.00% and an all-in effective interest rate of approximately 4.0% including the effect of fees and the termination of certain interest rate hedges. In February 2013, the Company issued 34,468,085 Common Shares with a value of $1.9 billion based on the February 27, 2013 closing price of EQR Common Shares of $55.99 per share to an affiliate of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. as partial consideration for the acquisition of the Archstone Portfolio. In December 2012, the Company raised $1.2 billion in equity in a public offering of 21,850,000 Common Shares priced at $54.75 per share. On January 11, 2013, the Company replaced its existing $1.75 billion credit facility with a $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing April 1, 2018. The Company believes that the new facility, provided by a diversified and strong bank group, increases its balance sheet flexibility going forward. On January 11, 2013, the Company also entered into a senior unsecured $750.0 million delayed draw term loan facility which was 

41
fully drawn on February 27, 2013 in connection with the Archstone Acquisition.

In October 2013, the Company used cash on hand from dispositions to repay $963.5 million outstanding of 5.883% mortgage debt assumed as part of the Archstone Transaction prior to the November 1, 2014 maturity date. Also in October 2013, the Company closed a new $800.0 million mortgage loan from a large insurance company which matures on November 10, 2023, is interest only and carries a fixed interest rate of 4.21%. The Company used the loan proceeds from this new loan to simultaneously repay $825.0 million of a $1.27 billion mortgage loan assumed as part of the Archstone Transaction. The approximately $440.0 million balance will remain outstanding, continue to mature in November 2017 and continue to carry a fixed interest rate of 6.256%. In conjunction with the early debt extinguishment activity discussed above, the Company incurred cash prepayment costs of approximately $151.0 million and a net charge to earnings of approximately $42.9 million after consideration of the write-off of the Archstone-related debt premium. The Company believes it has obtained favorable interest terms on this long term debt and has substantially extended the duration of its debt maturities as well as reduced its 2014 and 2017 maturities as a percentage of outstanding debt.

 We believe that cash and cash equivalents, securities readily convertible to cash, current availability on our revolving credit facility and disposition proceeds for 2014 will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our funding obligations relating to asset acquisitions, debt maturities and existing development projects through 2014. We expect that our remaining longer-term funding requirements will be met through some combination of new borrowings, equity issuances, property dispositions, joint ventures and cash generated from operations.

There is significant uncertainty surrounding the futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the “Government Sponsored Enterprises” or “GSEs”) and recent changes in leadership of the GSEs' regulator has heightened this uncertainty. Through their lender originator networks, the GSEs are significant lenders both to the Company and to buyers of the Company's properties. The GSEs have a mandate to support multifamily housing through their financing activities. Any changes to their mandates, further reductions in their size or the scale of their activities or loss of key personnel could have a significant impact on the Company and may, among other things, lead to lower values for our assets and higher interest rates on our borrowings. During the first quarter of 2013, the regulator of the GSEs required the GSEs to decrease their 2013 multifamily lending activities by 10% compared to 2012 levels and it is not clear if further reductions will be mandated. The GSEs' regulator may require the GSEs to focus more of their lending activities on properties that the regulator deems affordable, which may or may not include the Company's assets. By selling the assets required to pay for Archstone in the first half of 2013, the Company substantially mitigated the risk that changes in GSE activity would impact its Archstone-related disposition program. Reductions in GSE activity or increases in GSE loan pricing may also provide a competitive advantage to us by making the cost of financing multifamily properties more expensive for other multifamily owners while the Company continues to have access to cheaper capital in the public and private debt and equity markets (see examples of this access discussed above). Over time, we expect that other lenders, including the commercial mortgage-backed securities market and life insurance companies, will become larger sources of debt capital to the multifamily market because multifamily properties are attractive to lenders due to their relatively stable cash flows.

We expect continued growth in revenue (anticipated 2014 same store revenue increase ranging from 3.0% to 4.0%) and NOI (anticipated 2014 same store NOI increase ranging from 3.50% to 4.75%) and are optimistic that the continued strength in fundamentals across most of our markets will produce solid performance through 2014 and beyond. These same-store assumptions include the nearly 18,500 stabilized apartment units that we acquired in the Archstone Transaction. We believe the key drivers behind the anticipated increase in revenue are base rent pricing for new residents, renewal pricing for existing residents, resident turnover and physical occupancy. For 2014, we expect average base rent growth of 3.25%, an increase in renewal rates of 4.75%, occupancy of 95.4% and turnover at 51.5%. Our largest market, Washington D.C., continues to show signs of stress as new supply and the impact of sequestration and furloughs have dampened the metro area economy. However, as evidenced by our continued high occupancy levels, there continues to be healthy demand for apartments in Washington D.C. even in the face of declining government payrolls and procurement. As the supply peaks in 2014, we expect our Washington D.C. results to produce a 1% decline in same store revenues during 2014, which will likely reduce our expected Company-wide same store revenue growth by 1%. Despite slow growth in the overall economy and the issues noted in Washington D.C., our business continues to perform well because of the combined forces of demographics, household formations and increasing consumer preference for the flexibility of rental housing, all of which should ensure a continued strong demand for rental housing.

The Company anticipates that 2014 same store expenses will increase 2.0% to 3.0% primarily due to increases in real estate taxes, which are expected to increase 5.25%, and utilities, which are expected to increase in excess of 7.5%. The increase in real estate taxes is primarily due to rate and value increases in certain states and municipalities, reflecting those states' and municipalities' continued economic challenges and the dramatic improvement in apartment values and fundamentals as well as the continued burn off of 421a tax abatements in New York City. The increase in utilities is primarily due to a combination of increases in natural gas prices, increased consumption of gas and electric due to historically low temperatures and increases in water and sewer costs as many municipalities have antiquated systems with limited revenue for modernization. Expense growth 

42
in the core property level expenses (excluding real estate taxes and utilities) continues to be modest as the Company leverages the geographic locations of its new same-store portfolio and technology to lower costs, which should partially offset the increase in real estate taxes and utilities.

We believe that the Company is well-positioned as of December 31, 2013 because our properties are geographically diverse, were approximately 93.8% occupied (94.8% on a same store basis) and the long-term demographic picture is positive. We believe certain market areas, especially Washington D.C., downtown Boston and Cambridge and downtown Seattle, will see substantial near term multifamily supply yet total new supply levels for our core markets remain within historical ranges. We believe over the longer term that our core markets will absorb future supply without material marketwide disruption because of the high occupancy levels we currently experience and increasing household formations. We have seen evidence of this in Seattle as supply has been absorbed and rental rates continue to grow. We believe our strong balance sheet and ample liquidity will allow us to fund our debt maturities and development costs in the near term, and should also allow us to take advantage of investment opportunities in the future.

The current environment information presented above is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Results of Operations

In conjunction with our business objectives and operating strategy, the Company continued to invest in apartment properties located in strategically targeted markets during the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. In summary, we:

Year Ended December 31, 2013:

▪Acquired $8.5 billion of apartment properties consisting of 73 consolidated properties and 20,914 apartment units (inclusive of eight long-term ground leases) at a weighted average cap rate (see definition below) of 4.9% and 14 consolidated land parcels for $260.6 million, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets;

▪Acquired three consolidated master-leased properties consisting of 853 apartment units (inclusive of one long-term ground lease) for $250.9 million at a weighted average cap rate of 5.6%;

▪Acquired two consolidated uncompleted developments for $36.6 million;

▪Acquired one unconsolidated apartment property consisting of 336 apartment units for $5.1 million at a weighted average cap rate of 5.8% and one unconsolidated land parcel for $6.6 million;

▪Acquired two unconsolidated uncompleted developments for $14.9 million;

▪Sold $4.5 billion of consolidated apartment properties consisting of 94 properties and 29,180 apartment units at a weighted average cap rate of 6.0% generating an unlevered internal rate of return ("IRR"), inclusive of management costs, of 10.0% (excluding the sale of three Archstone assets), the majority of which were in exit or less desirable markets;

▪Sold seven consolidated land parcels and one consolidated commercial building for $130.4 million; and

▪Sold one unconsolidated land parcel for $26.4 million (sales price is the gross sales price and EQR's share of the net sales proceeds approximated 25%).

Year Ended December 31, 2012:

▪Acquired $906.3 million of apartment properties consisting of nine consolidated properties and 1,896 apartment units at a weighted average cap rate (see definition below) of 4.7% and acquired six land parcels for $141.2 million, all of which we deem to be in our strategic targeted markets; and

▪Sold $1.1 billion of consolidated apartment properties consisting of 35 properties and 9,012 apartment units at a weighted average cap rate of 6.2%, the majority of which were in exit or less desirable markets. These sales, excluding two leveraged partially-owned assets sold during the third quarter, generated an unlevered IRR, inclusive of management costs, of 10.6%.

The Company's primary financial measure for evaluating each of its apartment communities is net operating income (“NOI”). NOI represents rental income less property and maintenance expense, real estate tax and insurance expense and property management expense. The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of its operating performance because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company's apartment communities. The cap rate is generally the first year NOI yield (net of replacements) on the Company's investment.

Properties that the Company owned and were stabilized (see definition below) for all of both 2013 and 2012 (the “2013 

43
Same Store Properties”), which represented 80,247 apartment units, impacted the Company's results of operations. Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2012 and 2011 (the “2012 Same Store Properties”), which represented 98,577 apartment units, also impacted the Company's results of operations. Both the 2013 Same Store Properties and 2012 Same Store Properties are discussed in the following paragraphs.

The following tables provide a rollforward of the apartment units included in Same Store Properties and a reconciliation of apartment units included in Same Store Properties to those included in Total Properties for the year ended December 31, 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Properties are considered "stabilized" when they have achieved 90% occupancy for three consecutive months. Properties are included in Same Store when they are stabilized for all of the current and comparable periods presented.

(1)Includes three properties containing 1,536 apartment units acquired on February 27, 2013 in conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition that were subsequently sold in 2013 and two properties containing 360 apartment units in lease-up that were sold in 2013.

(2)Includes properties in various stages of lease-up and properties where lease-up has been completed but the properties were not stabilized for the comparable periods presented.

The Company's acquisition, disposition and completed development activities also impacted overall results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. The impacts of these activities are discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs.

44
Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2013 to the year ended December 31, 2012 

For the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company reported diluted earnings per share of $5.16 compared to $2.70 per share for the year ended December 31, 2012. The difference is primarily due to higher gains from property sales in 2013 vs. 2012 and higher total property net operating income driven by the positive impact of the Company's same store and stabilized Archstone properties, partially offset by $73.9 million of merger-related expenses incurred in connection with the Archstone Acquisition, $121.7 million of costs incurred in connection with early debt extinguishment of existing mortgage notes payable to manage the Company's post Archstone 2017 maturities profile, higher depreciation as a direct result of the Archstone Transaction, the issuance of Common Shares to the public in December 2012 and to an affiliate of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in February 2013 as partial consideration for the Archstone Acquisition and the Company's recognition of $150.0 million in Archstone-related termination fees in 2012.

For the year ended December 31, 2013, loss from continuing operations increased approximately $328.5 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. The decrease in continuing operations is discussed below.

Revenues from the 2013 Same Store Properties increased $76.0 million primarily as a result of an increase in average rental rates charged to residents, slightly higher occupancy and a decrease in turnover. Expenses from the 2013 Same Store Properties increased $20.2 million primarily due to increases in real estate taxes, utilities and repairs and maintenance costs, partially offset by lower property management costs. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2013 Same Store Properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the period.

The following table provides comparative same store operating expenses for the 2013 Same Store Properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45
(1)On-site payroll – Includes payroll and related expenses for on-site personnel including property managers, leasing consultants and maintenance staff.

(2)Utilities – Represents gross expenses prior to any recoveries under the Resident Utility Billing System (“RUBS”). Recoveries are reflected in rental income.

(3)Repairs and maintenance – Includes general maintenance costs, apartment unit turnover costs including interior painting, routine landscaping, security, exterminating, fire protection, snow removal, elevator, roof and parking lot repairs and other miscellaneous building repair costs.

(4)Property management costs – Includes payroll and related expenses for departments, or portions of departments, that directly support on-site management. These include such departments as regional and corporate property management, property accounting, human resources, training, marketing and revenue management, procurement, real estate tax, property legal services and information technology.

(5)Other on-site operating expenses – Includes ground lease costs and administrative costs such as office supplies, telephone and data charges and association and business licensing fees.

The following table presents a reconciliation of operating income per the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income to NOI for the 2013 Same Store Properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For properties that the Company acquired prior to January 1, 2013 and expects to continue to own through December 31, 2014 as well as the stabilized apartment units acquired in the Archstone Acquisition, the Company anticipates the following same store results for the full year ending December 31, 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company anticipates consolidated rental acquisitions of $500.0 million and consolidated rental dispositions of $500.0 million and expects that acquisitions will have a 1.00% lower cap rate than dispositions for the full year ending December 31, 2014.

These 2014 assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.

Non-same store operating results increased approximately $377.3 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2012 and 2013, as well as operations from the Company’s completed development properties. Although the operations of both the non-same store assets and the same store assets have been positively impacted during the year ended December 31, 2013, the non-same store assets have contributed a greater percentage of total NOI to the Company’s overall operating results primarily due to 2012 and 2013 acquisitions, increasing occupancy for properties in lease-up and a longer ownership period in 2013 than 2012. This increase primarily resulted from:

▪Development and other miscellaneous properties in lease-up of $7.2 million;

▪Operating properties acquired in 2013 as part of the Archstone Transaction of $346.0 million;

▪Other properties acquired in 2012 and 2013 of $23.7 million;

▪Newly stabilized development and other miscellaneous properties of $5.5 million; and

▪Partially offset by an allocation of property management costs not included in same store results and operating activities from other miscellaneous operations.

46
See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures.

Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, decreased approximately $1.7 million or 34.1% primarily as a result of higher expenses and lower revenue earned on management of the Company's military housing ventures at Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base, partially offset by fees earned on management of the Company’s unconsolidated development joint ventures.

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company’s properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses increased approximately $2.4 million or 3.0%. This increase is primarily attributable to an increase in payroll-related costs and an increase in computer operations due to the modernization of employee technology, partially offset by the timing of legal and professional fees.

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased approximately $418.3 million or 74.6% primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on properties acquired in 2013 (including the Archstone properties), development properties placed in service and capital expenditures for all properties owned, partially offset by a decrease in the amortization of furniture, fixtures and equipment that were fully depreciated. In-place residential lease intangibles are generally amortized over a six month period and can significantly elevate depreciation expense following an acquisition, especially during 2013 as a direct result of the Archstone Acquisition.

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $14.9 million or 31.6% primarily due to an increase in payroll-related costs, which is largely a result of higher and accelerated long-term compensation expense for retirement eligible employees and higher compensation related to the Archstone Transaction, as well as an increase in office rent. The Company anticipates that general and administrative expenses will approximate $50.0 million to $52.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2014. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Interest and other income from continuing operations decreased $145.9 million or 96.9% primarily due to the Company recognizing $150.0 million in Archstone-related termination fees during the year ended December 31, 2012, partially offset by proceeds received from the sale of investment securities and technology investments during the year ended December 31, 2013. The Company anticipates that interest and other income will approximate $0.5 million for the year ending December 31, 2014. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Other expenses from continuing operations decreased approximately $12.6 million or 58.0% primarily due to the lower property pursuit costs as the Company focused on its pursuit of the Archstone Acquisition.

Merger expenses from continuing operations, which includes direct costs incurred from the Archstone Acquisition such as investment banking and legal/accounting costs, increased approximately $14.2 million as a result of the closing of the Archstone Acquisition during the year ended December 31, 2013.

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $132.5 million or 27.8% primarily as a result of the following:

▪$121.7 million of costs incurred on early debt extinguishments in 2013 on existing mortgage notes payable to manage the Company's post Archstone 2017 maturities profile;

▪Interest expense on the Company's $750.0 million delayed draw term loan facility which was fully drawn on February 27, 2013; and

▪Interest expense on $500.0 million of unsecured notes that closed in April 2013.

The above increases to interest expense were partially offset by the following: 

▪Higher capitalized interest in 2013 (see below);

▪The repayment of $253.9 million of 6.625% unsecured notes in March 2012;

▪The repayment of $221.1 million of 5.500% unsecured notes in October 2012; 

▪The repayment of a $543.0 million mortgage pool in March 2013;

▪The repayment of $400.0 million of 5.200% unsecured notes in April 2013;

▪The repayment of $963.5 million of 5.883% Pool 4 mortgage debt in October 2013; and

▪The partial paydown of $825.0 million of 6.256% Pool 3 mortgage debt in October 2013. 

During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $47.3 million as compared to $22.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects 

47
under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2013 was 4.91% (excluding $107.6 million in net debt extinguishment costs) as compared to 5.37% for the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company anticipates that interest expense from continuing operations will approximate $449.1 million to $461.4 million (excluding debt extinguishment costs) for the year ending December 31, 2014. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Income and other tax expense from continuing operations increased approximately $0.7 million primarily due to increases in taxes related to land parcel sales owned by the Company's TRS as well as increases in all other taxes. The Company anticipates that income and other tax expense will approximate $1.0 million to $2.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2014. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities due to operations increased by $4.1 million as a result of the unconsolidated joint ventures acquired as part of the Archstone Transaction.

Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities due to merger expenses, which includes indirect costs incurred from the Archstone Acquisition through the Company's joint ventures with AVB, increased primarily as a result of severance obligations and retention bonuses in connection with the Archstone Acquisition through our 60% interest in unconsolidated joint ventures.

Net gain on sales of unconsolidated entities increased due to the gain on sale of one unconsolidated land parcel during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to no sales during the year ended December 31, 2012.

Net gain on sales of land parcels increased approximately $12.2 million due to the gain on sale of seven land parcels during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to no land sales during the year ended December 31, 2012.

Discontinued operations, net increased approximately $1.4 billion between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily due to higher gains on sales from dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012, partially offset by properties sold in 2013 that reflect operations for a partial period in 2013 in contrast to a full period in 2012. See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2012 to the year ended December 31, 2011 

For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company reported diluted earnings per share of $2.70 compared to $2.98 per share for the year ended December 31, 2011. The difference is primarily due to higher gains from property sales in 2011 vs. 2012, partially offset by higher total property net operating income driven by the positive impact of the Company’s same store and lease-up activity and the Company's recognition of $150.0 million in termination fees related to our pursuit of Archstone.

For the year ended December 31, 2012, income from continuing operations increased approximately $233.2 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase in continuing operations is discussed below.

Revenues from the 2012 Same Store Properties increased $97.5 million primarily as a result of an increase in average rental rates charged to residents and slightly higher occupancy, partially offset by increased turnover. Expenses from the 2012 Same Store Properties increased $11.2 million primarily due to increases in real estate taxes and insurance, partially offset by a decrease in utilities. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2012 Same Store Properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

48
(1)Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the period.

The following table provides comparative same store operating expenses for the 2012 Same Store Properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)On-site payroll – Includes payroll and related expenses for on-site personnel including property managers, leasing consultants and maintenance staff.

(2)Utilities – Represents gross expenses prior to any recoveries under the Resident Utility Billing System (“RUBS”). Recoveries are reflected in rental income.

(3)Repairs and maintenance – Includes general maintenance costs, apartment unit turnover costs including interior painting, routine landscaping, security, exterminating, fire protection, snow removal, elevator, roof and parking lot repairs and other miscellaneous building repair costs.

(4)Property management costs – Includes payroll and related expenses for departments, or portions of departments, that directly support on-site management. These include such departments as regional and corporate property management, property accounting, human resources, training, marketing and revenue management, procurement, real estate tax, property legal services and information technology.

(5)Other on-site operating expenses – Includes administrative costs such as office supplies, telephone and data charges, association and business licensing fees and ground lease costs.

Non-same store operating results increased approximately $95.0 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2011 and 2012, as well as operations from the Company’s completed development properties. Although the operations of both the non-same store assets and the same store assets have been positively impacted during the year ended December 31, 2012, the non-same store assets have contributed a greater percentage of total NOI to the Company’s overall operating results primarily due to 2011 and 2012 acquisitions, increasing occupancy for properties in lease-up and a longer ownership period in 2012 than 2011. This increase primarily resulted from:

▪Development and other miscellaneous properties in lease-up of $12.3 million;

▪Properties acquired in 2011 and 2012 of $75.1 million; and

▪Newly stabilized development and other miscellaneous properties of $5.9 million.

See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company's segment disclosures.

Fee and asset management revenues, net of fee and asset management expenses, increased approximately $0.2 million or 3.4% primarily as a result of fees earned on management of the Company’s unconsolidated development joint ventures, partially offset by lower revenues earned on management of the Company's military housing ventures at Fort Lewis and McChord Air Force Base and higher expenses.

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company’s properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses were consistent between the periods under comparison.

49
Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased approximately $54.5 million or 10.8% primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on properties acquired in 2011 and 2012, development properties placed in service and capital expenditures for all properties owned, partially offset by a decrease in the amortization of both in-place leases and furniture, fixtures and equipment that were fully depreciated.

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $3.6 million or 8.3% primarily due to an increase in payroll-related costs, which is largely a result of the acceleration of long-term compensation expense for retirement eligible employees, partially offset by a decrease in office rent.

Interest and other income from continuing operations increased approximately $142.6 million primarily due to the Company recognizing $150.0 million in termination fees related to our pursuit of the Archstone Acquisition during the year ended December 31, 2012, partially offset by lower interest earned on cash and cash equivalents due to lower overall cash invested during the year ended December 31, 2012 as well as forfeited deposits for terminated disposition transactions, proceeds received from the Company’s final royalty participation in LRO/Rainmaker (a revenue management system) and litigation settlement proceeds that all occurred during the year ended December 31, 2011 and did not reoccur during the year ended December 31, 2012.

Other expenses from continuing operations increased approximately $9.3 million or 74.9% primarily due to the settlement of a dispute with the owners of a land parcel, an increase in the expensing of overhead (pursuit costs write-offs) as a result of a more active focus on sourcing new development opportunities and an increase in property acquisition costs incurred in conjunction with the Company's 2012 acquisitions.

Merger expenses from continuing operations, which includes direct costs incurred from the Archstone Acquisition such as investment banking and legal/accounting costs, increased approximately $3.9 million as the Company focused on its pursuit of the Archstone Acquisition, which closed in the first quarter of 2013.

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, decreased approximately $0.3 million or 0.1% primarily as a result of lower interest expense on mortgage notes payable due to lower balances during the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the same period in 2011, higher capitalized interest in 2012, the redemption of the Company's $650.0 million of unsecured notes in August 2011 and the repayment of $253.9 million of 6.625% unsecured notes in March 2012, partially offset by interest expense on the $1.0 billion of unsecured notes that closed in December 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $22.5 million as compared to $9.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2012 was 5.37% as compared to 5.30% for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Income and other tax expense from continuing operations decreased approximately $0.2 million or 27.2% primarily due to decreases in all other taxes.

Loss from investments in unconsolidated entities due to operations increased as a result of the start of operations at one of the Company's unconsolidated development joint ventures.

Net gain on sales of land parcels decreased approximately $4.2 million due to the gain on sale of a land parcel located in suburban Washington, D.C. during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to no land sales during the year ended December 31, 2012.

Discontinued operations, net decreased approximately $287.2 million or 28.5% between the periods under comparison. This decrease is primarily due to higher gains on sales from dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2012. Properties sold in 2012 reflect operations for a partial period in 2012 in contrast to a full period in 2011. See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 

EQR issues public equity from time to time and guarantees certain debt of ERPOP. EQR does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership.

As of January 1, 2013, the Company had approximately $612.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, its restricted 1031 

50
exchange proceeds totaled $152.2 million and it had $1.72 billion available under its revolving credit facility (net of $30.2 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit). After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs and the net cash provided by operating activities, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2013 was approximately $53.5 million and the amount available on its revolving credit facility was $2.35 billion (net of $34.9 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and net of $115.0 million outstanding).

During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company generated proceeds from various transactions, which included the following:

▪Disposed of 94 consolidated properties, one commercial building and seven land parcels, receiving net proceeds of approximately $4.6 billion;

▪Disposed of one unconsolidated land parcel and a portion of the Company's unconsolidated interest in German residential real estate, receiving net proceeds of $25.5 million;

▪Obtained $750.0 million of proceeds from its senior unsecured delayed draw term loan facility that was drawn upon in connection with the Archstone Acquisition;

▪Issued $500.0 million of ten-year 3.00% fixed rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $495.6 million before underwriting fees and other expenses, at an all-in effective interest rate of 3.998%;

▪Obtained $800.0 million of proceeds in a secured loan pool from a large insurance company and $102.9 million in other new mortgage financings; and

▪Issued approximately 0.7 million Common Shares related to share option exercises and ESPP purchases and received net proceeds of $20.7 million, which were contributed to the capital of the Operating Partnership in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis).

During the year ended December 31, 2013, the above proceeds were primarily utilized to:

▪Acquire the Archstone Portfolio for approximately $4.0 billion in cash (see Note 4 for details of the transaction);

▪Acquire one additional rental property and one additional land parcel for approximately $108.3 million;

▪Invest $377.4 million primarily in development projects; and

▪Repay $2.5 billion of mortgage loans and $400.0 million of unsecured notes. 

On February 27, 2013, the Company issued 34,468,085 Common Shares to an affiliate of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. as partial consideration for the portion of the Archstone Portfolio acquired by the Company. The shares had a total value of $1.9 billion based on the February 27, 2013 closing price of EQR Common Shares of $55.99 per share. Concurrent with this transaction, ERPOP issued 34,468,085 OP Units to EQR. On March 7, 2013, EQR filed a shelf registration statement relating to the resale of these shares by the selling shareholders. Lehman has since sold all of these Common Shares.

On November 28, 2012, as a partial source of funding for the Archstone Acquisition, EQR priced the issuance of 21,850,000 Common Shares at a price of $54.75 per share for total consideration of approximately $1.2 billion, after deducting underwriting commissions of $35.9 million. Concurrent with this transaction, ERPOP issued 21,850,000 OP Units to EQR.

In September 2009, EQR announced the establishment of an At-The-Market (“ATM”) share offering program which would allow EQR to sell up to 17.0 million Common Shares from time to time over the next three years (later increased by 5.7 million Common Shares and extended to February 2014) into the existing trading market at current market prices as well as through negotiated transactions. Per the terms of ERPOP’s partnership agreement, EQR contributes the net proceeds from all equity offerings to the capital of ERPOP in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis). EQR may, but shall have no obligation to, sell Common Shares through the ATM share offering program in amounts and at times to be determined by EQR. Actual sales will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by EQR from time to time, including (among others) market conditions, the trading price of EQR’s Common Shares and determinations of the appropriate sources of funding for EQR. On July 30, 2013, the Company filed a new universal shelf registration statement to replace its existing universal shelf registration statement, which expired October 15, 2013. The Board of Trustees also approved an increase to the amount of shares which be may offered under the ATM program to 13.0 million Common Shares and extended the program maturity to July 2016. EQR has not issued any shares under this program since September 14, 2012. Through February 21, 2014, EQR has cumulatively issued approximately 16.7 million Common Shares at an average price of $48.53 per share for total consideration of approximately $809.9 million.

On June 16, 2011, the shareholders of EQR approved the Company's 2011 Share Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2011 Plan”). The 2011 Plan reserved 12,980,741 Common Shares for issuance. In conjunction with the approval of the 2011 Plan, no further awards may be granted under the 2002 Share Incentive Plan. The 2011 Plan expires on June 16, 2021. See Note 12 in the 

51
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Depending on its analysis of market prices, economic conditions and other opportunities for the investment of available capital, EQR may repurchase its Common Shares pursuant to its existing share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Trustees. Effective July 30, 2013, the Board of Trustees approved an increase and modification to the Company's share repurchase program to allow for the potential repurchase of up to 13.0 million shares. No shares were repurchased during 2013 or at any time for open market repurchases since 2008. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Depending on its analysis of prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors, the Company may from time to time seek to repurchase and retire its outstanding debt in open market or privately negotiated transactions.

The Company’s total debt summary and debt maturity schedules as of December 31, 2013 are as follows:

Debt Summary as of December 31, 2013 

(Amounts in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are for the year ended December 31, 2013 and do not include $113.6 million of write-offs of unamortized premiums related to the early repayment of $1.8 billion in mortgage notes payable during the quarter ended December 31, 2013.

Note: The Company capitalized interest of approximately $47.3 million and $22.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

52
Debt Maturity Schedule as of December 31, 2013 

(Amounts in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are as of December 31, 2013.

(2)Includes the Company's senior unsecured $750.0 million delayed draw term loan facility that matures on January 11, 2015 and is subject to a one-year extension option exercisable by the Company.

(3)Includes $115.0 million outstanding on the Company's unsecured revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2013, there was approximately $2.35 billion available on this facility.

The following table provides a summary of the Company’s unsecured debt as of December 31, 2013:

Unsecured Debt Summary as of December 31, 2013 

(Amounts in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Facilities are private. All other unsecured debt is public.

(2)On January 11, 2013, the Company entered into a senior unsecured $750.0 million delayed draw term loan facility which was fully drawn on February 27, 2013 in connection with the Archstone Acquisition. The maturity date of January 11, 2015 is subject to a one-year extension option exercisable by the Company. The interest rate on advances under the term loan facility will generally be LIBOR 

53
plus a spread (currently 1.20%), which is dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt.

(3)On January 11, 2013, the Company replaced its existing $1.75 billion facility with a $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing April 1, 2018. The interest rate on advances under the new credit facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 1.05%) and an annual facility fee (currently 15 basis points). Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt. As of December 31, 2013, there was approximately $2.35 billion available on the Company's unsecured revolving credit facility. 

An unspecified amount of equity and debt securities remains available for issuance by EQR and ERPOP under a universal shelf registration statement that automatically became effective upon filing with the SEC on July 30, 2013 and expires on July 30, 2016. In July 2013, the Board of Trustees also approved an increase to the amount of shares which be may offered under the ATM program to 13.0 million Common Shares and extended the program maturity to July 2016. Per the terms of ERPOP’s partnership agreement, EQR contributes the net proceeds of all equity offerings to the capital of ERPOP in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis) or preference units (on a one-for-one preferred share per preference unit basis).

The Company’s “Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio” as of December 31, 2013 is presented in the following table. The Company calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Common Shares and assumed conversion of all Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preferred shares outstanding.

Equity Residential

Capital Structure as of December 31, 2013 

(Amounts in thousands except for share/unit and per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity Residential

Perpetual Preferred Equity as of December 31, 2013 

(Amounts in thousands except for share and per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On August 20, 2012, the Company redeemed its Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares for cash consideration of $150.0 million plus accrued dividends through the redemption date. As a result of this redemption, the Company recorded the write-off of approximately $5.1 million in original issuance costs as a premium on the redemption of Preferred Shares.

The Operating Partnership’s “Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio” as of December 31, 2013 is presented in the following table. The Operating Partnership calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preference units outstanding.

54
ERP Operating Limited Partnership

Capital Structure as of December 31, 2013 

(Amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ERP Operating Limited Partnership

Perpetual Preference Units as of December 31, 2013 

(Amounts in thousands except for unit and per unit amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On August 20, 2012, the Operating Partnership redeemed its Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preference Units for cash consideration of $150.0 million plus accrued dividends through the redemption date, in conjunction with the concurrent redemption of the corresponding Company Preferred Shares. As a result of this redemption, the Operating Partnership recorded the write-off of approximately $5.1 million in original issuance costs as a premium on the redemption of Preference Units.

The Company generally expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements, including capital expenditures related to maintaining its existing properties and scheduled unsecured note and mortgage note repayments, through its working capital, net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility. Under normal operating conditions, the Company considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payments of distributions.

The Company has a flexible dividend policy which it believes will generate payouts closely aligned with the actual annual operating results of the Company’s core business and provide transparency to investors. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company paid $0.40 per share for each of the first three quarters and $0.65 per share for the fourth quarter to bring the total payment for the year (an annual rate of $1.85 per share) to approximately 65% of Normalized FFO. Beginning in 2014, the Company's annual dividend will be paid based on 65% of the midpoint of the range of Normalized FFO guidance customarily provided as part of the Company's fourth quarter earnings release. The Company expects the annual dividend payout will be $2.00 per share and the Company intends to pay four quarterly dividends of $0.50 per share in 2014. All future dividends remain subject to the discretion of the Board of Trustees. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking. While our current dividend policy makes it less likely we will over distribute, it will also lead to a dividend reduction more quickly should operating results deteriorate. However, whether due to changes in the dividend policy or otherwise, there may be times when the Company experiences shortfalls in its coverage of distributions, which may cause the Company to consider reducing its distributions and/or using the proceeds from property dispositions or additional financing transactions to make up the difference. Should these shortfalls occur for lengthy periods of time or be material in nature, the Company's financial condition may be adversely affected and it may not be able to maintain its current distribution levels. The Company believes that its expected 2014 operating cash flow will be sufficient to cover capital expenditures and distributions.

The Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled unsecured note and mortgage debt maturities, property acquisitions, financing of construction and development activities through the issuance of secured and unsecured debt and equity securities, including additional OP Units, proceeds received from the disposition of certain properties and joint ventures and cash generated from operations after all distributions. In addition, the Company has significant unencumbered properties available to secure additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public capital markets are unavailable or the cost of alternative sources of capital is too high. The fair value of and cash flow from these unencumbered properties are in excess of the requirements the Company must maintain in order to comply with covenants under its unsecured notes and line of credit. Of the $26.8 billion in investment in real estate on the Company’s balance sheet at December 31, 2013, $18.0 billion or 67.0% was 

55
unencumbered. However, there can be no assurances that these sources of capital will be available to the Company in the future on acceptable terms or otherwise.

ERPOP’s credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), Moody’s and Fitch for its outstanding senior debt are BBB+, Baa1 and BBB+, respectively. EQR’s equity ratings from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch for its outstanding preferred equity are BBB+, Baa2 and BBB-, respectively.

The Archstone Transaction, related financing activities and property sales adversely impacted our unsecured public debt covenants during the year ended December 31, 2013. However, certain debt repayment and refinancing activities during the quarter ended December 31, 2013 resulted in unsecured public debt covenants that are more consistent with those as of December 31, 2012. See the following table for a comparison of these covenants at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In July 2011, the Company replaced its then existing unsecured revolving credit facility with a new $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on July 13, 2014, subject to a one-year extension option exercisable by the Company. The interest rate on advances under the credit facility was generally LIBOR plus a spread (1.15%) and the Company paid an annual facility fee of 0.2%. Both the spread and the facility fee were dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long term debt. Effective January 6, 2012, the Company amended this facility to increase available borrowings by $500.0 million to $1.75 billion. The terms did not change, including the July 13, 2014 maturity date. 

On January 11, 2013, the Company replaced its existing $1.75 billion facility with a $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing April 1, 2018. The Company has the ability to increase available borrowings by an additional $500.0 million by adding additional banks to the facility or obtaining the agreement of existing banks to increase their commitments. The interest rate on advances under the facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 1.05%) and the Company pays an annual facility fee (currently 15 basis points). Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company’s long-term debt. As of February 21, 2014, there was available borrowings of $2.1 billion (net of $34.9 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and net of $360.0 million outstanding) on the revolving credit facility. This facility may, among other potential uses, be used to fund property acquisitions, costs for certain properties under development and short-term liquidity requirements.

On January 11, 2013, the Company also entered into a new senior unsecured $750.0 million delayed draw term loan facility which was fully drawn on February 27, 2013 in connection with the Archstone Acquisition. The maturity date of January 11, 2015 is subject to a one-year extension option exercisable by the Company. The interest rate on advances under the new term loan facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 1.20%), which is dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt.

See Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the events which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2013.

Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate

Our policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize expenditures that improve the value of the property or extend the useful life of the component asset of the property. We track improvements to real estate in two major categories and several subcategories:

▪Replacements (inside the apartment unit). These include:

•flooring such as carpets, hardwood, vinyl or tile;

•appliances;

•mechanical equipment such as individual furnace/air units, hot water heaters, etc;

•furniture and fixtures such as kitchen/bath cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, sinks, tubs, toilets, mirrors, 

56
countertops, etc; and

•blinds.

All replacements are depreciated over a five to ten-year estimated useful life. We expense as incurred all make-ready maintenance and turnover costs such as cleaning, interior painting of individual apartment units and the repair of any replacement item noted above.

▪Building improvements (outside the apartment unit). These include:

•roof replacement and major repairs;

•paving or major resurfacing of parking lots, curbs and sidewalks;

•amenities and common areas such as pools, exterior sports and playground equipment, lobbies, clubhouses, laundry rooms, alarm and security systems and offices;

•major building mechanical equipment systems;

•interior and exterior structural repair and exterior painting and siding;

•major landscaping and grounds improvement; and

•vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.

All building improvements are depreciated over a five to fifteen-year estimated useful life. We capitalize building improvements and upgrades only if the item: (i) exceeds $2,500 (selected projects must exceed $10,000); (ii) extends the useful life of the asset; and (iii) improves the value of the asset.

For the year ended December 31, 2013, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $135.8 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for apartment unit and per apartment unit amounts):

Capital Expenditures to Real Estate

For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Total Apartment Units – Excludes 1,669 unconsolidated apartment units and 5,113 military housing apartment units for which repairs and maintenance expenses and capital expenditures to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company’s results.

(2)Replacements – Includes new expenditures inside the apartment units such as appliances, mechanical equipment, fixtures and flooring, including carpeting. Replacements for same store properties also include $19.5 million spent in 2013 on apartment unit renovations/rehabs (primarily kitchens and baths) on 2,560 same store apartment units (equating to about $7,600 per apartment unit rehabbed) designed to reposition these assets for higher rental levels in their respective markets. The Company also completed apartment unit renovations/rehabs (primarily kitchens and baths) on 1,200 non-same store apartment units (primarily Archstone properties), equating to a total cost of approximately $11.9 million.

(3)Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired or completed and stabilized prior to January 1, 2012, less properties subsequently sold.

(4)Non-Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired during 2012 and 2013, plus any properties in lease-up and not stabilized as of January 1, 2012. Per apartment unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 19,493 apartment units. Includes approximately ten months of activity for the Archstone properties.

(5)Other – Primarily includes expenditures for properties sold during the period.

For the year ended December 31, 2012, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $152.8 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for apartment unit and per apartment unit amounts):

57
Capital Expenditures to Real Estate

For the Year Ended December 31, 2012 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Total Apartment Units – Excludes 5,039 military housing apartment units for which repairs and maintenance expenses and capital expenditures to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company’s results.

(2)Replacements – Includes new expenditures inside the apartment units such as appliances, mechanical equipment, fixtures and flooring, including carpeting. Replacements for same store properties also include $33.0 million spent in 2012 on apartment unit renovations/rehabs (primarily kitchens and baths) on 4,427 apartment units (equating to about $7,500 per apartment unit rehabbed) designed to reposition these assets for higher rental levels in their respective markets.

(3)Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired or completed and stabilized prior to January 1, 2011, less properties subsequently sold.

(4)Non-Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired during 2011 and 2012, plus any properties in lease-up and not stabilized as of January 1, 2011. Per apartment unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 10,754 apartment units.

(5)Other – Primarily includes expenditures for properties sold during the period. 

For 2014, the Company estimates that it will spend approximately $1,700 per apartment unit of capital expenditures, inclusive of apartment unit renovation/rehab costs, or $1,250 per apartment unit excluding apartment unit renovation/rehab costs. In 2014, the Company expects to spend approximately $45.0 million for all unit renovation/rehab costs (primarily on same store properties) at a weighted average cost of $8,500 per apartment unit rehabbed. The anticipated increased capital expenditure cost per unit over 2013 is primarily driven by increases in building improvement costs (i.e. roofs, mechanical systems and siding) for the Archstone assets as well as certain large building improvement projects the Company had planned to complete in 2013 but will not finalize until 2014. The Company is also accelerating its rehab/renovation efforts in 2014 with plans to continue to create value from our properties by doing those rehabs that meet our investment parameters. The above assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.

During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company’s total non-real estate capital additions, such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements to the Company’s property management offices and its corporate offices, were approximately $4.1 million. The Company expects to fund approximately $2.7 million in total additions to non-real estate property in 2014. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Improvements to real estate and additions to non-real estate property are generally funded from net cash provided by operating activities and from investment cash flow.

Derivative Instruments

In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes. The Company seeks to manage these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments. The Company may also use derivatives to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rates or manage commodity prices in the daily operations of the business.

The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from these instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives it currently has in place.

See Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments at December 31, 2013.

Other

Total distributions paid in January 2014 amounted to $243.5 million (excluding distributions on Partially Owned Properties), which included certain distributions declared during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2013.

58
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

Archstone Acquisition 

On February 27, 2013, in conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition, the Company acquired unconsolidated interests in several joint ventures. The Company does not believe that these investments have a materially different impact upon its liquidity, cash flows, capital resources, credit or market risk than its other consolidated operating and/or development activities. Details of these interests follow by project:

San Norterra – This venture developed certain land parcels into a 388 unit apartment building located in Phoenix, Arizona. The Company has an 85% equity interest with an initial basis of $16.9 million. Total project costs are approximately $56.3 million and construction was partially funded with a construction loan that is guaranteed by the partner and non-recourse to the Company. The loan has a maximum debt commitment of $34.8 million and a current unconsolidated outstanding balance of $33.0 million; the loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.00% and matures January 6, 2015. The partner is the managing member and developed the project. The Company does not have substantive kick-out or participating rights. As a result, the entity is unconsolidated and recorded using the equity method of accounting.

Waterton Tenside – This venture was formed to develop and operate a 336 unit apartment property located in Atlanta, Georgia. The Company has a 20% equity interest with an initial basis of $5.1 million. The partner is the managing member and developed the project. The project is encumbered by a non-recourse mortgage loan that has a current outstanding balance of $30.6 million, bears interest at 3.66% and matures December 1, 2018. The Company does not have substantive kick-out or participating rights. As a result, the entity is unconsolidated and recorded using the equity method of accounting.

Parkside at Emeryville – This venture is currently developing certain land parcels into a 176 unit apartment building located in Emeryville, California. The Company has a 5% equity interest with an initial obligation of approximately $2.1 million. Total project costs are expected to be approximately $75.0 million and construction is being partially funded with a construction loan. The loan has a maximum debt commitment of $39.5 million and a current unconsolidated outstanding balance of $11.4 million; the loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.25% and matures August 14, 2015. The Company has given a repayment guaranty on the construction loan of 50% of the outstanding balance, up to a maximum of $19.7 million, and has given certain construction cost overrun guarantees. The partner is the managing member and is developing the project. The Company does not have substantive kick-out or participating rights. As a result, the entity is unconsolidated and recorded using the equity method of accounting.

On February 27, 2013, in connection with the Archstone Acquisition, subsidiaries of the Company and AVB entered into three limited liability company agreements (collectively, the “Residual JV”). The Residual JV owns certain non-core Archstone assets that are held for sale, such as interests in a German portfolio of apartment buildings, and succeeded to certain residual Archstone liabilities, such as liability for various employment-related matters. The Residual JV is owned 60% by the Company and 40% by AVB and the Company's initial investment was $113.6 million. The Residual JV is managed by a Management Committee consisting of two members from each of the Company and AVB. Both partners have equal participation in the Management Committee and all significant participating rights are shared by both partners. As a result, the Residual JV is unconsolidated and recorded using the equity method of accounting.

On February 27, 2013, in connection with the Archstone Acquisition, a subsidiary of the Company and AVB entered into a limited liability company agreement (the “Legacy JV”), through which they assumed obligations of Archstone in the form of preferred interests, some of which are governed by tax protection arrangements. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company purchased with AVB $65.0 million (of which the Company's 60% share was $39.0 million) of the preferred interests assumed by Legacy JV. At December 31, 2013, the remaining preferred interests have an aggregate liquidation value of $89.0 million, our share of which is included in other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Obligations of the Legacy JV are borne 60% by the Company and 40% by AVB. The Legacy JV is managed by a Management Committee consisting of two members from each of the Company and AVB. Both partners have equal participation in the Management Committee and all significant participating rights are shared by both partners. As a result, the Legacy JV is unconsolidated and recorded using the equity method of accounting.

Other

The Company admitted an 80% institutional partner to two separate entities/transactions (Nexus Sawgrass in December 2010 and Domain in August 2011), each owning a developable land parcel, in exchange for $40.1 million in cash and retained a 20% equity interest in both of these entities. These projects are now unconsolidated. Details of these projects follow:

•Nexus Sawgrass – This development project was substantially completed as of September 30, 2013. Total project costs 

59
are expected to be approximately $80.0 million and construction was predominantly funded with a long-term, non-recourse secured loan from the partner. The mortgage loan has a maximum debt commitment of $48.7 million and a current unconsolidated outstanding balance of $47.6 million; the loan bears interest at 5.60% and matures January 1, 2021.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

While the Company is the managing member of both of the joint ventures, was responsible for constructing both of the projects and has given certain construction cost overrun guarantees, the joint venture partner has significant participating rights and has active involvement in and oversight of the ongoing projects. The Company currently has no further funding obligations related to these projects. The Company's strategy with respect to these ventures was to reduce its financial risk related to the development of the properties. However, management does not believe that these investments have a materially different impact upon the Company's liquidity, cash flows, capital resources, credit or market risk than its other consolidated development activities.

As of December 31, 2013, the Company has 14 consolidated projects (including 400 Park Avenue South in New York City which the Company is jointly developing with Toll Brothers and Park Aire in which the Company acquired a 95% interest in connection with the Archstone Transaction – see Note 16 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion) totaling 4,017 apartment units and one unconsolidated project totaling 176 apartment units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through June 30, 2016, as well as other completed development projects that are in various stages of lease up or are stabilized. The development agreements currently in place are discussed in detail in Note 16 of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

See also Notes 2 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s investments in partially owned entities.

The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Amounts include aggregate principal payments only.

(b)Amounts include interest expected to be incurred on the Company’s secured and unsecured debt based on obligations outstanding at December 31, 2013 and inclusive of capitalized interest. For floating rate debt, the current rate in effect for the most recent payment through December 31, 2013 is assumed to be in effect through the respective maturity date of each instrument.

(c)Minimum basic rent due for various office space the Company leases and fixed base rent due on ground leases for 14 properties/parcels.

(d)Estimated payments to the Company's Chairman, Vice Chairman and one former CEO based on actual and planned retirement dates.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different or different assumptions were made, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied, resulting in different financial results or different presentation of our financial statements.

The Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies were followed in preparing the consolidated financial statements at and for the year ended December 31, 2013 and are consistent with the year ended December 31, 2012.

60
The Company has identified five significant accounting policies as critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are those that have the most impact on the reporting of our financial condition and those requiring significant judgments and estimates. With respect to these critical accounting policies, management believes that the application of judgments and estimates is consistently applied and produces financial information that fairly presents the results of operations for all periods presented. The five critical accounting policies are:

Acquisition of Investment Properties

The Company allocates the purchase price of properties to net tangible and identified intangible assets acquired based on their fair values. In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company utilizes a number of sources, including independent appraisals that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective property, our own analysis of recently acquired and existing comparable properties in our portfolio and other market data. The Company also considers information obtained about each property as a result of its pre-acquisition due diligence, marketing and leasing activities in estimating the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate, for indicators of impairment. The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions and legal and environmental concerns, as well as the Company’s ability to hold and its intent with regard to each asset. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.

Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate

The Company depreciates the building component of its investment in real estate over a 30-year estimated useful life, building improvements over a 5-year to 15-year estimated useful life and both the furniture, fixtures and equipment and replacement components over a 5-year to 10-year estimated useful life, all of which are judgmental determinations.

Cost Capitalization

See the Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate section for a discussion of the Company’s policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs. In addition, the Company capitalizes an allocation of the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend their time on the execution and supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects. These costs are reflected on the balance sheets as increases to depreciable property.

For all development projects, the Company uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy. These costs are reflected on the balance sheets as construction-in-progress for each specific property. The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovations at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.

During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, the Company capitalized $16.5 million, $14.3 million and $11.6 million, respectively, of payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend their time on the execution and supervision of development activities as well as major capital and/or renovation projects.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments

The valuation of financial instruments requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on current instruments with similar terms and maturities or on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.

61
Funds From Operations and Normalized Funds From Operations

For the year ended December 31, 2013, Funds From Operations (“FFO”) available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units decreased $120.8 million, or 12.2%, and increased $173.8 million, or 19.7%, respectively, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. For the year ended December 31, 2012, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units increased $241.1 million, or 32.0%, and $123.6 million, or 16.3%, respectively, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011.

The following is the Company's and the Operating Partnership's reconciliation of net income to FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units for each of the five years ended December 31, 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines funds from operations (“FFO”) (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”)), excluding gains (or losses) from sales and impairment write-downs of depreciable operating properties, plus depreciation and amortization, and after 

62
adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis. The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only. Once the Company commences the conversion of apartment units to condominiums, it simultaneously discontinues depreciation of such property.

(2) Normalized funds from operations (“Normalized FFO”) begins with FFO and excludes:

▪the impact of any expenses relating to non-operating asset impairment and valuation allowances;

▪property acquisition and other transaction costs related to mergers and acquisitions and pursuit cost write-offs;

▪gains and losses from early debt extinguishment, including prepayment penalties, preferred share/preference unit redemptions and the cost related to the implied option value of non-cash convertible debt discounts;

▪gains and losses on the sales of non-operating assets, including gains and losses from land parcel and condominium sales, net of the effect of income tax benefits or expenses; and

▪other miscellaneous non-comparable items.

(3)The Company believes that FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company, because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units can help compare the operating performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. The Company also believes that Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company because they allow investors to compare the Company’s operating performance to its performance in prior reporting periods and to the operating performance of other real estate companies without the effect of items that by their nature are not comparable from period to period and tend to obscure the Company’s actual operating results. FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units do not represent net income, net income available to Common Shares / Units or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units should not be exclusively considered as alternatives to net income, net income available to Common Shares / Units or net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as a measure of liquidity. The Company’s calculation of FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies.

(4)FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are calculated on a basis consistent with net income available to Common Shares / Units and reflects adjustments to net income for preferred distributions and premiums on redemption of preferred shares/preference units in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the “Noncontrolling Interests – Operating Partnership”. Subject to certain restrictions, the Noncontrolling Interests – Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk