Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Market risks relating to the Company’s financial instruments result primarily from changes in short-term LIBOR interest rates and changes in the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ("SIFMA") index for tax-exempt debt. The Company also has foreign exchange exposure related to interests in German residential real estate that were acquired as part of the Archstone Transaction.

The Company’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the unsecured revolving and term loan facilities as well as floating rate tax-exempt debt. The Company typically incurs fixed rate debt obligations to finance acquisitions while it typically incurs floating rate debt obligations to finance working capital needs and as a temporary measure in advance of securing long-term fixed rate financing. The Company continuously evaluates its level of floating rate debt with respect to total debt and other factors, including its assessment of the current and future economic environment. To the extent the Company carries substantial cash balances, this will tend to partially counterbalance any increase or decrease in interest rates.

The Company also utilizes certain derivative financial instruments to manage market risk. Interest rate protection agreements are used to convert floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis or vice versa as well as to partially lock in rates on future debt issuances. The Company may utilize derivative financial instruments to manage foreign exchange rate risk related to interests in German residential real estate that were acquired as part of the Archstone Transaction. Derivatives are used for hedging purposes rather than speculation. The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. See also Note 9 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments.

The fair values of the Company’s financial instruments (including such items in the financial statement captions as cash and cash equivalents, other assets, accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities) approximate their carrying or contract values based on their nature, terms and interest rates that approximate current market rates. The fair value of the Company’s 

63
mortgage notes payable and unsecured debt (including its line of credit) were approximately $5.1 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2013. 

At December 31, 2013, the Company had total outstanding floating rate debt of approximately $1.6 billion, or 15.3% of total debt, net of the effects of any derivative instruments. If market rates of interest on all of the floating rate debt permanently increased by 12 basis points (a 10% increase from the Company’s existing weighted average interest rates), the increase in interest expense on the floating rate debt would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $2.0 million. If market rates of interest on all of the floating rate debt permanently decreased by 12 basis points (a 10% decrease from the Company’s existing weighted average interest rates), the decrease in interest expense on the floating rate debt would increase future earnings and cash flows by approximately $2.0 million.

At December 31, 2013, the Company had total outstanding fixed rate debt of approximately $9.1 billion, or 84.7% of total debt, net of the effects of any derivative instruments. If market rates of interest permanently increased by 51 basis points (a 10% increase from the Company’s existing weighted average interest rates), the estimated fair value of the Company’s fixed rate debt would be approximately $8.3 billion. If market rates of interest permanently decreased by 51 basis points (a 10% decrease from the Company’s existing weighted average interest rates), the estimated fair value of the Company’s fixed rate debt would be approximately $10.1 billion.

At December 31, 2013, the Company’s derivative instruments had a net asset fair value of approximately $18.7 million. If market rates of interest permanently increased by 33 basis points (a 10% increase from the Company’s existing weighted average interest rates), the net asset fair value of the Company’s derivative instruments would be approximately $28.0 million. If market rates of interest permanently decreased by 33 basis points (a 10% decrease from the Company’s existing weighted average interest rates), the net asset fair value of the Company’s derivative instruments would be approximately $9.4 million.

At December 31, 2012, the Company had total outstanding floating rate debt of approximately $0.7 billion, or 8.0% of total debt, net of the effects of any derivative instruments. If market rates of interest on all of the floating rate debt permanently increased by 14 basis points (a 10% increase from the Company's existing weighted average interest rates), the increase in interest expense on the floating rate debt would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $0.9 million. If market rates of interest on all of the floating rate debt permanently decreased by 14 basis points (a 10% decrease from the Company's existing weighted average interest rates), the decrease in interest expense on the floating rate debt would increase future earnings and cash flows by approximately $0.9 million. 

At December 31, 2012, the Company had total outstanding fixed rate debt of approximately $7.8 billion, or 92.0% of total debt, net of the effects of any derivative instruments. If market rates of interest permanently increased by 56 basis points (a 10% increase from the Company's existing weighted average interest rates), the estimated fair value of the Company's fixed rate debt would be approximately $7.1 billion. If market rates of interest permanently decreased by 56 basis points (a 10% decrease from the Company's existing weighted average interest rates), the estimated fair value of the Company's fixed rate debt would be approximately $8.7 billion.

At December 31, 2012, the Company's derivative instruments had a net liability fair value of approximately $42.5 million. If market rates of interest permanently increased by 4 basis points (a 10% increase from the Company's existing weighted average interest rates), the net liability fair value of the Company's derivative instruments would be approximately $40.9 million. If market rates of interest permanently decreased by 4 basis points (a 10% decrease from the Company's existing weighted average interest rates), the net liability fair value of the Company's derivative instruments would be approximately $44.2 million.

These amounts were determined by considering the impact of hypothetical interest rates on the Company’s financial instruments. The foregoing assumptions apply to the entire amount of the Company’s debt and derivative instruments and do not differentiate among maturities. These analyses do not consider the effects of the changes in overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. Further, in the event of changes of such magnitude, management would likely take actions to further mitigate its exposure to the changes. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no changes in the Company’s financial structure or results.

The Company cannot predict the effect of adverse changes in interest rates on its debt and derivative instruments and, therefore, its exposure to market risk, nor can there be any assurance that long-term debt will be available at advantageous pricing. Consequently, future results may differ materially from the estimated adverse changes discussed above.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data