ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document are a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 15  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 Current difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during the second half of 2008 and beginning of 2009. The volatility and disruption in the global financial markets have reached unprecedented levels. The availability and cost of credit has been materially affected. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, falling equity market values, rising unemployment, declining business and consumer confidence and the risk of increased inflation, have precipitated what may be a severe recession. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business and our financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events:  

   •    The amount, duration and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so.  

   •    During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Asset and Wealth Management segments.  

   •    Fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management segment.  

   •    Our ability to continue to operate certain commingled investment funds at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit and to allow unrestricted cash redemptions by investors in those commingled 

 funds (or by investors in other funds managed by us which are invested in those commingled investment funds) may be adversely affected by depressed mark-to-market prices of the underlying portfolio securities held by such funds, or by material defaults on such securities or by the limited sources of liquidity that are available to such funds; and we may be faced with claims from investors and exposed to financial loss as a result of our operation of such funds.  

   •    We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA and ARRA. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.  

   •    The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure and to ascertain the fair value of securities held by us is subject to uncertainty in that it requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and others to meet their obligations.  

   •    Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the public credit and capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.  

   •    Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions.  

   •    We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums due to our participation in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and other EESA programs and because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.  

We may experience further write-downs of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions.   

Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of 

16 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could require us to take further write-downs in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.  

Competition—We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  

Many businesses in which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. Other domestic and international banks and financial service companies such as trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, specialized processing companies, outsourcing companies, data processing companies and asset managers aggressively compete with us for fee-based business. We also face competition from both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations such as mutual funds, insurance companies, credit unions, money market funds and investment counseling firms, whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. In addition, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, brokerage houses and other business firms and individuals offer active competition for personal trust services and investment counseling services.  

Dependence on fee-based business—We are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, significant declines in market values or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences.  

Our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, as distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from traditional interest-generating products and services. We have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, including cash management, custody, mutual fund services, unit investment trusts, corporate trust, depositary receipts, stock transfer, securities execution and clearance, collateral management, and asset management.  

Fees for many of our products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market 

 value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. Corporate actions, cross-border investing, global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues.  

Asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. This is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. Significant declines in the values of capital assets would reduce the market value of some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

Pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services which would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  

Our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. If there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected.  

Our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity.  

The degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. Most of our foreign exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. Activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more volatility. Accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 17  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility.  

Our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. Economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. Decreased cross-border investing could lead to decreased demand for investor services that we provide.  

The trend towards use of electronic trade networks instead of traditional modes of exchange may result in unfavorable pressure on our foreign exchange business which could adversely impact our foreign exchange revenue.  

Our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform.  

We provide custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, stock transfer, cash management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. Assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. If we fail to perform these services in a manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, any such failure may result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

Our internal strategies and forecasts assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. A decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline of the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. A decline in the rate at which our clients outsource functions, such as their internal accounts 

payable activities, would also adversely affect our results of operations.  

Strategic acquisitions may pose integration risks.  

From time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. Each of these poses integration challenges, including successfully retaining clients and key employees of both businesses and capitalizing on certain revenue synergies. We cannot assure you that we will realize, when anticipated or at all, the positive benefits expected as a result of our acquisitions or that any businesses acquired will be successfully integrated.  

There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system.  

In October 2008, the U.S. government announced the passage of the EESA and in February 2009 enacted the ARRA in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions.  

Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, invest in financial institutions, purchase mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions in an amount up to $700 billion for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Under ARRA, further stabilization measures were made. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and ARRA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and ARRA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock.  

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different 

18 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparties or clients. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations, or that the EESA or ARRA will stabilize current market conditions.  

Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented.  

The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. Our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to continue, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy.  

If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Any material reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets.  

Our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.  

In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency’s judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, we believe that the rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, may increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.  

The outcome of such a review may have adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.  

Interest Rate Environment—Our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  

Our net interest income and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes, changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets and changes in customer credit quality, over which we have no control. Our net interest revenue is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. We also earn net interest revenue on interest-free funds we hold. 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 19  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 The current global market crisis has triggered a series of cuts in interest rates, which could cause a decline in our net interest revenue. Further declines could cause net income losses. Additional volatility in interest rates could trigger one or more of the following effects:  

   •    changes in net interest revenue depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. See discussion under “Asset/liability management” in the Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference;  

   •    reduced credit demand due to sustained higher interest rates;  

   •    an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in interest rates, including with respect to financial guaranty monoline insurers as to which we have credit exposure;  

   •    increased borrowing costs and reduced access to the capital markets caused by unfavorable financial conditions;  

   •    sustained lower interest rates, which may reduce the spread we earn on deposits;  

   •    a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates; and  

   •    decreased fee-based revenues due to a slowing of capital market activity or significant declines in market value.  

A more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the “Risk Management” section of the Annual Report.  

Capital Adequacy—We are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected.  

Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our Company and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If our Company, our subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, their respective financial conditions would be materially and 

 adversely affected. In light of recent market events, the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and implemented by the Federal Reserve may require us and our subsidiary banks to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. We cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, the regulatory accords or implementing regulations. Failure by our principal subsidiary banks and broker-dealer subsidiaries to maintain their status as “well capitalized” and “well managed,” if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status as a financial holding company and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. Financial holding companies are permitted to engage in a wide range of financial activities, insurance, merchant banking and real estate investment that are not permissible for other bank holding companies and are also eligible for a streamlined review process for proposed acquisitions. See “Supervision and Regulation” above and “Capital -- Capital Framework” and “-- Capital Adequacy” in the Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.  

Access to Capital Markets—If our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our business may be adversely affected.  

Our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital markets on a regular basis. While the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program has temporarily improved its participants’ access to sources of liquidity, this program expires on June 30, 2009, but may be extended. We rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated operations. Events or circumstances, such as rising interest rates, market disruptions or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we 

20 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.  

We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision in non-U.S. jurisdictions.  

We operate in a highly regulated environment, being subject to a comprehensive statutory regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. In light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. See “Supervision and Regulation” above. Some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the United States. Such jurisdictions may utilize legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. Among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be decided much more quickly than in the U.S., trials may not involve testimony of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. These 

 factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess.  

Proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry are expected to be introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and around the world. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the U.S. and rules to more closely regulate credit default swaps and other derivative transactions, are possible in the years ahead. We are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see “Supervision and Regulation” above.  

Monetary and Other Governmental Policies—Our business is influenced by monetary and other governmental policies.  

The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. Due to the current market conditions, we anticipate that monetary, tax and other government policies will become more rigorous. Heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. The cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results in additional costs. Various legislative initiatives are from time to time introduced in Congress or relevant state legislatures. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have upon our financial condition or operations. See “Supervision and Regulation” above. 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 21  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 Operational Risk—We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  

We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the corporation or business interruption due to system failures or other events. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively impact our results of operations. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. See “Risk Management” in the Annual Report, which portion of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.  

Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.  

Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.  

We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems 

 could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Risk Management” in the Annual Report, which portion of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.  

Technology—We depend on our technology and intellectual property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected.  

We are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. Our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. Rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. Technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. In addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers.  

Developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market in a timely manner at a competitive price.  

Rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments. We 

22 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability.  

We use trademark, trade secret, copyright and other proprietary rights and procedures to protect our intellectual property and technology resources. Despite our efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our proprietary rights are sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, we cannot be sure that courts will adequately enforce contractual arrangements we have entered into to protect our proprietary technologies. If any of our proprietary information were misappropriated by or otherwise disclosed to our competitors, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We may incur substantial costs to defend ownership of our intellectual property or to replace misappropriated proprietary technology. If a third party were to assert a claim of infringement of our proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party.  

Acts of Terrorism—Acts of terrorism may have a negative impact on our business.  

Acts of terrorism could have a significant impact on our business and operations. While we have in place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism could still damage our facilities and disrupt or delay normal operations, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, and counterparties. Acts of terrorism and global conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent they resulted in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further 

 adversely affect economic growth, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are necessarily unable to predict.  

Reputational and Legal Risk—Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally.  

Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the recent events in the financial markets, our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, actions of errant employees, financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well known companies, increasing regulatory scrutiny of “know your customer,” anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund industry, including mutual funds advised by us, and litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure of us to comply with compliance policies and procedures, could result in increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets, result in suits, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or have adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Investigations by various federal and state regulatory agencies, the Department of Justice and state attorneys general, and any related litigation, could have an adverse effect on investment activity generally and on us. Such investigations also may be initiated by, and other compliance requirements may be asserted by, jurisdictions outside the United States, utilizing legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. See Item 3 of this Form 10-K.  

On April 21, 2006, The Bank of New York (now known as The Bank of New York Mellon) entered into a formal written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the New York State Banking Department, which imposed a number of reporting requirements and controls in connection with The Bank of New York Mellon’s anti-money laundering program. The agreement outlines a series of steps to strengthen and enhance The Bank of New York Mellon’s compliance practices, systems, controls and procedures and remains in effect until terminated by the banking regulators. Failure to comply with the agreement could result in sanctions, money penalties and reputational damage, which 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 23  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

On Aug. 17, 2006, Mellon Bank, N.A. (now known as BNY Mellon, N.A.), entered into a settlement agreement with the United States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania relating to an April 2001 incident in BNY Mellon, N.A.’s Pittsburgh IRS Processing Unit. Under the terms of the settlement, BNY Mellon, N.A. agreed to have an independent third party monitor compliance with the terms of the agreement for a three-year period. No monetary penalties or fines were imposed by the agreement although BNY Mellon, N.A. reimbursed the federal government for $30 thousand of costs incurred by an outside vendor. If BNY Mellon, N.A. complies with the terms of the agreement, the U.S. Attorney will not prosecute BNY Mellon, N.A. The agreement should not impair BNY Mellon, N.A.’s ability to serve as a long-standing government contractor.  

Our subsidiaries are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.  

From time to time, customers of our subsidiaries may make claims and take legal action pertaining to performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the subsidiary’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the subsidiary they may result in material financial liability and materially impair the market perception of us and our products. In addition, in the performance of fiduciary duties or other contractual responsibilities, our subsidiaries may be required to withhold applicable taxes on income distributions to foreign and domestic persons. In the event such withholding was to be determined to have not been conducted in a manner supported by appropriate documentation, we could be subject to liability.  

New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.  

From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial 

 timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible.  

We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.  

Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them.  

Tax Laws and Regulations—Tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition.  

The U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) have taken increasingly aggressive positions against certain corporate investment programs that either reduce or defer taxes such as certain types of structured transactions including leasing investments referred to as LILOs, in which we engaged prior to mid-1999, and SILOs, in which we engaged prior to 2004. As a result of such challenges by the IRS, in the third quarter of 2008, we accepted a settlement offer from the IRS on these LILO/SILO transactions. There can be no assurances that the IRS will not challenge other corporate investment programs in the future. See Note 26 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which note is incorporated herein by reference.  

We believe we have adequate tax reserves to cover any potential tax exposures the IRS may assess. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will negatively affect us or our business.  

Going forward, we anticipate we will have fewer opportunities to participate in lease investing, tax credit programs and similar transactions that have benefited us in the past. This may adversely impact our net interest revenue and effective tax rate. In addition, changes in tax legislation or the 

24 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income.  

Accounting Principles—Changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements.  

From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data, although, in certain instances, these changes may not have an economic impact on our business. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements.  

Credit Reserves—We could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate.  

We have credit exposure to residential mortgages, Florida real estate, the airline, automotive, and telecommunications industries, to monoline financial guaranty insurers and to many other industries. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. Though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. We rely on our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. In addition, current market developments may increase default and delinquency rates, which may impact our charge-offs. We cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. If reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are not sufficient, we would be required to record a larger loan reserve against current earnings.  

Holding Company—We are a holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders.  

We are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our principal bank subsidiaries - The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. - and our other subsidiaries. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banks and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates. Although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or other of our subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. See “Supervision and Regulation” above and “Liquidity and Dividends” and “Capital -- Capital Framework” in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors (including, in the case of our banking subsidiaries, their depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. The rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. Consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. A holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities.  

Limits on common stock dividends  

Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. Any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of our 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 25  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 common stock. As part of the capital issuance to the Treasury referred to below, we agreed that for three years (or such prior time as the U.S. Treasury ceases to hold the Series B securities issued by the Company) we will not pay any dividends on our common stock other than regular quarterly dividends of not more than $0.24 per share. On Oct. 28, 2008, the Company issued to the U.S. Treasury, $3 billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, which pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum until the fifth anniversary of the date of the investment and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum. The Series B preferred shares rank senior to the Company’s common stock, and may impact the Company’s ability to pay dividends on the common stock.  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES