PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Description of Business  

On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation (“Mellon Financial”) merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the “Company”), with The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation being the surviving entity. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon Financial by The Bank of New York Company, Inc. for accounting and financial reporting purposes. For additional information on the merger, see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company’s 2008 Annual Report (“Annual Report”), which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE symbol: BK) is a global financial services company headquartered in New York, New York, with approximately $928 billion in assets under management and $20.2 trillion in assets under custody and administration. For a further discussion of the Company’s products and services, see the “Overview” and “Business segments review” sections in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the Company’s Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) section in the Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference. See “Available Information” on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding the Company, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

We were originally formed as a holding company for The Bank of New York Mellon, which has its executive offices in New York. With its predecessors, the Company has been in business since 1784.  

On July 1, 2008, we completed the process of consolidating and renaming our principal U.S. bank and trust company subsidiaries into two principal banks. This consolidation effort was an essential part of our overall merger and integration process.  

The two principal banks resulting from the consolidation of the entities, which mainly were U.S. banks and trust companies, are:  

   •    The Bank of New York Mellon (the “Bank”), a New York state chartered bank, formerly named “The Bank of New York”, which houses our institutional businesses including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and Advisor Services and the bank-advised business of Asset Management.  

   •    BNY Mellon, National Association (“BNY Mellon, N.A.”), a nationally-chartered bank, formerly named “Mellon Bank, N.A.”, which houses our Wealth Management business. Currently, this bank contains only the legacy Mellon Financial wealth management business. The wealth management business of the legacy The Bank of New York Company is expected to be added to BNY Mellon, N.A. in 2009.  

As part of the consolidation, the number of our U.S. trust companies was reduced to two – The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. These companies house trust products and services across the U.S. Also concentrating on trust products and services is BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, a Delaware bank. Most asset management businesses, along with Pershing, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of the Company.  

Our bank subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. The deposits of the banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to the extent provided by law.  

We divide our businesses into seven segments: Asset Management; Wealth Management; Asset Servicing; Issuer Services; Clearing Services; Treasury Services and Other. For a further discussion of the Company’s products and services, see “Business segments review” in the MD&A section of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Information on international operations is presented in the Annual Report in “Net interest revenue -- Average balances and interest rates”, “International operations”, “International operations -- International financial data”, “International operations -- Cross-border risk” and “Consolidated Balance Sheet Review -- Loans by product,” which are incorporated herein by reference. 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 3  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 Principal Entities  

Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of the Company’s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2008.  

Discontinued Operations  

As discussed in Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, the Company reports results using the discontinued operations method of accounting. Note 4 is incorporated herein by reference. All information in this Form 10-K, including all supplemental information, reflects continuing operations unless otherwise noted.  

Supervision and Regulation  

Our Company and our bank subsidiaries are subject to an extensive system of banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of the customers and depositors of the Company’s bank subsidiaries rather than holders of the Company’s securities. These laws and regulations govern such areas as levels of capital, permissible activities, reserves, loans and investments, and rates of interest that can be charged on loans. Similarly, our subsidiaries engaged in investment advisory and other securities related activities are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations that are intended to benefit clients of investment advisors and shareholders in mutual funds rather than holders of the Company’s securities. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to general U.S. federal laws and regulations and to the laws and regulations of the states or countries in which the Company and its subsidiaries are organized or conduct businesses. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of the Company and its subsidiaries.  

Regulated Entities of The Company  

The Company is regulated as a bank holding company and a financial holding company (“FHC”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended by 

 the 1999 financial modernization legislation known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “BHC Act”). As such, it is subject to the supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”). In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies that are financial holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks, performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries, engaging in activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined, by order or regulation, are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, and, as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act, engaging in any activity, or acquiring and retaining the shares of any company engaged in any activity, that is either (1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (2) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve Board). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments in commercial companies.  

Our ability to maintain FHC status is dependent upon a number of factors, including our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries continuing to qualify as “well capitalized” as described under “- Prompt Corrective Action” below.  

A FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status will, depending on which requirements it fails to meet, lose the ability to undertake new activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies without FHC status or to continue such activities. Currently, we meet these requirements. The Bank of New York Mellon, which is the Company’s principal bank subsidiary, is a New York-chartered banking corporation, is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York State Banking Department (the “NYSBD”). The Company’s national bank subsidiaries, including BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company National Association., are subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”).  

We operate a number of broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities. These companies are SEC registered broker- 

4 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 dealers and members of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), a securities industry self-regulatory organization.  

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended (the “40 Act”) and, as such, are supervised by the SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations and to the laws of any countries in which they conduct business. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries advise both public investment companies which are registered with the SEC under the 40 Act, including the Dreyfus/Founders family of mutual funds, and private investment companies which are not registered under the 40 Act. The shares of most investment companies advised by our subsidiaries are qualified for sale in all states in the U.S. and the District of Columbia, except for investment companies that offer products only to residents of a particular state or of a foreign country and except for certain investment companies which are exempt from such registration or qualification.  

Certain of the Company’s United Kingdom incorporated subsidiaries are authorized to conduct investment business in the U.K. pursuant to the U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA 2000”). Their investment management advisory activities and their sale and marketing of retail investment products are regulated by the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”). In addition to broad supervisory powers, the FSA may discipline the businesses it regulates. Disciplinary powers include the power to temporarily or permanently revoke the authorization to carry on regulated business following a breach of FSMA 2000 and/or regulatory rules, the suspension of registered employees and censures and fines for both regulated businesses and their registered employees. Certain U.K. investment funds, including Mellon Investment Funds, an open-ended investment company with variable capital advised by U.K. regulated subsidiaries of the Company, are registered with the FSA and are offered for retail sale in the U.K.  

Certain of the Company’s public finance activities are regulated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries are registered with the Commodity 

 Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) as commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and, as such, are subject to CFTC regulation.  

The types of activities in which the foreign branches of our banking subsidiaries and our international subsidiaries may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. Those foreign branches and international subsidiaries are also subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.  

Dividend Restrictions  

The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank and other subsidiaries. Dividends and interest from our subsidiaries are our principal sources of funds to make capital contributions or loans to our bank and other subsidiaries, to pay service on our own debt, to honor our guarantees of debt issued by our subsidiaries or of trust-preferred securities issued by a trust or to pay dividends on our own equity securities. Various federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to us by our bank subsidiaries without regulatory approval. For a further discussion of restrictions on dividends, see the first six paragraphs of Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which paragraphs are incorporated herein by reference. If, in the opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), the regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank cease and desist from such practice. The OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have indicated that the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would deplete a depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate level. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDI Act”), an insured depository institution may not pay any dividends if the institution is under-capitalized or if the payment of the dividend would cause the institution to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings. 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 5  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 The ability of the Company’s bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Company may also be affected by various minimum capital requirements for banking organizations, as described below. In addition, the Company’s right to participate in the assets or earnings of a subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary.  

Transactions with Affiliates  

There are certain restrictions on the ability of the Company and certain of its non-bank affiliates to borrow from, and engage in other transactions with, its bank subsidiaries. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and are limited, as to any one of the Company or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as to the Company and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank’s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions, other than the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions with any one affiliate, are also applied to transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. In addition, certain bank transactions with affiliates must be on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies.  

Unsafe and Unsound Practices  

The federal banking agencies have authority to prohibit the national banks they supervise from engaging in any activity which, in the appropriate agency’s opinion, constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting the bank’s business. The Federal Reserve Board has similar authority with respect to the Company and our non-bank subsidiaries. In addition, the NYSBD also has similar authority with respect to The Bank of New York Mellon.  

Deposit Insurance  

The deposits of our bank subsidiaries have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) is funded by assessments on insured depository 

 institutions, which depend on the risk category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits that it holds. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate. During 2008, the assessment rates ranged from $0.05 per $100 of domestic deposits in the lower risk category to $0.43 per $100 of domestic deposits for banks in the highest risk category. Our banks were assessed approximately $0.05 per $100 of domestic deposits for 2008. The FDIC increased the DIF assessment rates for the first quarter of 2009, with the new rates ranging from $0.12 per $100 of domestic deposits in the lower risk category to $0.50 per $100 of domestic deposits for banks in the highest risk category. An FDIC credit available to our bank subsidiaries for prior contributions offset the entire assessment for the first quarter of 2008 and 90% of the assessment for the remaining quarters of 2008, and will offset some of the assessment for 2009. Significant increases in the insurance assessments of our bank subsidiaries will increase our costs once the credit is fully utilized or otherwise disposed of.  

See page 11 for a discussion of deposit insurance related to the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.  

In addition, the Deposit Insurance Fund Act of 1996 authorizes the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF assessable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond obligations. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO is in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance under the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedule. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. The FICO annual assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $0.0110 per $100 of domestic deposits and will be $0.0114 for the first quarter of 2009.  

Under the FDI Act, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank’s federal regulatory agency.  

Source of Strength  

Under the BHC Act and Federal Reserve Board policy, the Company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to its bank subsidiaries and to commit capital 

6 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 and financial resources to those subsidiaries. The required support may be needed at times when, absent that Federal Reserve Board policy, we may not find ourselves able to provide it. In addition, any loans by the Company to its bank subsidiaries would be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of its banks. The Company’s U.S. non-bank subsidiaries engaged in securities-related activities are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions and Related Matters  

The FDI Act contains a “cross-guarantee” provision that could result in any insured depository institution owned by the Company being assessed for losses incurred by the FDIC in connection with assistance provided to, or the failure of, any other insured depository institution owned by the Company.  

Any loans by a bank holding company to a bank subsidiary that qualify as regulatory capital of the bank subsidiary, are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the bank subsidiary. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.  

In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of a national bank is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the bank’s shareholders, pro rata, and to the extent necessary, if any such assessment is not paid by any shareholder after three months notice, to sell the stock of such shareholder to make good the deficiency.  

Regulatory Capital  

The federal bank regulatory authorities have substantially similar risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines for banking organizations. The guidelines are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of their assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments. 

The risk-based capital guidelines currently applicable to bank holding companies are based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). As discussed further below, the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted new risk-based capital guidelines for “core banks”, including the Company, based upon the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (“Basel II”) issued by the Basel Committee in June 2004 and updated in November 2005.  

Under the existing Basel I-based guidelines, the risk-based capital ratio is determined by dividing the components of capital, described further below, by risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). Risk-adjusted assets are determined by classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet items into weighted categories. The required minimum ratio of “Total capital” (the sum of Tier I, Tier II and Tier III capital) to risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is currently 8%. The required minimum ratio of Tier I capital to risk-adjusted assets is 4%. At Dec. 31, 2008, the Company’s Total capital and Tier I capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios were 17.1% and 13.3%, respectively. Under both the existing Basel I-based guidelines and the Basel II-based guidelines that are coming into effect, a banking organization’s total capital is divided into tiers. “Tier I capital” consists of (1) common equity, (2) qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, (3) for bank holding companies but not banks, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock, (4) minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries and (5) for banking holding companies but not banks, a limited amount of trust- preferred securities, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Not more than 25% of qualifying Tier I capital may consist of cumulative perpetual preferred stock, trust-preferred securities and other so-called “restricted core capital elements.” Effective March 31, 2009, not more than 15% of our qualifying Tier I capital may consist of trust-preferred securities. We expect all of our trust-preferred securities to qualify as Tier I capital at March 31, 2009. The Series B preferred stock that we issued to the U.S. Treasury counts as Tier I capital and is not a restricted core capital element, notwithstanding that it has a step up in dividends and bears dividends cumulatively. See “U.S. Treasury program – investment in U.S. financial institutions”, below. 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 7  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 “Tier II capital” consists of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, a limited amount of subordinated debt, preferred stock that does not qualify as Tier I capital, a limited amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses and a limited amount of unrealized gains on equity securities. “Tier III capital” consists of qualifying unsecured subordinated debt. The sum of Tier II and Tier III capital may not exceed the amount of Tier I capital.  

The risk-based capital requirements identify concentration of credit risk and certain risks arising from non-traditional activities, and the management of those risks, as important factors to consider in assessing an institution’s overall capital adequacy. In addition, the risk-based capital guidelines incorporate a measure for market risk in foreign exchange and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market risk-based capital guidelines require banking organizations with large trading activities to maintain capital for market risk in an amount calculated by using the banking organizations’ own internal value-at-risk models, subject to parameters set by the regulators.  

The federal bank regulatory agencies adopted the Basel II capital guidelines effective April 1, 2008. The new guidelines are mandatory for “core” banks. The Company and its depository institution subsidiaries are “core” banks. The only approach available to “core” banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based (“A-IRB”) approach for credit risk and the Advanced Measurement Approach (“AMA”) for operational risk. The new guidelines provide for transitional periods during which banks subject to the new guidelines calculate their capital requirements under both the old guidelines and the new guidelines, with the minimum capital requirements being the greater of required capital as calculated under the new guidelines and designated percentages of required capital as calculated under the old guidelines. Under the guidelines as finally adopted, 2008 was the first possible year for a bank to begin its parallel run and 2009 is the first possible year for a bank to begin its first of three transitional floor periods.  

In the U.S., we are currently working towards implementing the Basel II-based, A-IRB and AMA approaches required by the new guidelines within the required deadlines. Beginning Jan. 1, 2008, we implemented the Basel II Standardized Approach in the United Kingdom, Belgium and Luxembourg. We 

 maintain an active dialogue with U.S. and international regulatory jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II reporting process.  

We believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices and that using the advanced approaches in the U.S., given our portfolio, could result in a reduction of risk-weighted assets notwithstanding the leverage ratio requirement.  

The Federal Reserve Board requires bank holding companies to comply with minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is the ratio of a bank holding company’s Tier I capital to its total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The guidelines require a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding companies that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-adjusted measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. The Federal Reserve Board has not advised us of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to us. At Dec. 31, 2008, our leverage ratio was 6.9%.  

The Federal Reserve Board’s capital guidelines provide that banking organizations experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. Also, the guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will consider a “tangible Tier I leverage ratio” in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier I leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization’s Tier I capital (excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding intangibles).  

Prompt Corrective Action  

The FDI Act, as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), requires the federal banking agencies to take “prompt correction action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks; well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly under-capitalized and critically under-capitalized. A depository institution is deemed to be “well capitalized” if the banking institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a 

8 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 Tier I risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution is not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure. The FDI Act imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified.  

At Dec. 31, 2008, all of our bank subsidiaries were well capitalized based on the ratios and guidelines noted above. A bank’s capital category, however, is determined solely for the purpose of applying the prompt corrective action rules and may not be an accurate representation of the bank’s overall financial condition or prospects.  

The appropriate federal banking agency may, under certain circumstances, reclassify a well capitalized insured depository institution as adequately capitalized. The FDI Act provides that an institution may be reclassified if the appropriate federal banking agency determines (after notice and opportunity for hearing) that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems the institution to be engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice.  

The appropriate agency is also permitted to require an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to comply with the supervisory provisions as if the institution were in the next lower category (but not treat a significantly undercapitalized institution as critically undercapitalized) based on supervisory information other than the capital levels of the institution.  

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act  

A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”) substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the U.S. The U.S. Treasury Department has proposed and, in some cases, issued a number of implementing regulations which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as the Company’s bank, broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries and mutual funds and private 

 investment companies advised or sponsored by our subsidiaries. Those regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.  

Depositor Preference  

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution are afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver.  

Asset-backed commercial paper liquidity facility program  

In September 2008, the Federal Reserve announced an Asset Backed Commercial Paper (“ABCP”) Money Market Mutual Fund (“MMMF”) Liquidity Facility program (the “ABCP Program”).  

Eligible borrowers under the ABCP Program include all U.S. depository institutions, U.S. bank holding companies, U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks and broker-dealers. Eligible borrowers may borrow funds under the ABCP Program in order to fund the purchase of eligible ABCP from an MMMF. The MMMF must be a fund that qualifies as a money market mutual fund under Rule 2a-7 of The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”). ABCP used for collateral in the ABCP Program must be rated no lower than A1, F1 or P1, U.S. dollar denominated and from a U.S. issuer. The ABCP Program, which began on Sept. 19, 2008 was initially scheduled to run through Jan. 30, 2009. The Federal Reserve has extended this program through Oct. 30, 2009.  

Borrowings under the ABCP Program are non-recourse. Further, the ABCP pledged under the ABCP Program receives a 0% risk weight for risk-based capital purposes and is excluded from average total consolidated assets for leverage capital purposes. 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 9  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 Subsidiaries of the Company purchased ABCP under the ABCP Program from MMMFs managed by the Company’s subsidiaries, as well as funds managed by third parties. At Dec. 31, 2008, we held $5.6 billion of assets and liabilities under the ABCP Program. The ABCP Program increased average assets by $2.3 billion in 2008. These assets are recorded on the balance sheet as other short-term investments – U.S. government-backed commercial paper. The liabilities are recorded as Borrowings from Federal Reserve related to asset-backed commercial paper. In January 2009, $4.5 billion of these assets and borrowings were repaid without credit losses.  

Temporary guarantee program for money market mutual funds  

In September 2008, the U.S. Treasury Department opened its Temporary Guarantee Program for Money Market Mutual Funds (the “Temporary Guarantee Program”). The U.S. Treasury will guarantee the share price of any publicly offered eligible money market fund that applies for and pays a fee to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program. All money market funds that are structured within the confines of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, maintain a stable share price of $1.00, are publicly offered and are registered with the SEC are eligible to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program.  

The Temporary Guarantee Program provides coverage to shareholders for amounts that they held in participating money market funds at the close of business on Sept. 19, 2008. The guarantee will be triggered if the market value of assets held in a participating fund falls below $0.995, the fund’s sponsor chooses not to maintain the $1.00 share price, and the fund’s board determines to liquidate the fund. The Temporary Guarantee Program is designed to address temporary dislocations in credit markets and initially was scheduled to run through Dec. 18, 2008. In November 2008, the Department of the Treasury announced an extension of the Temporary Guarantee Program until April 30, 2009 to support ongoing stability in this market. Continued protection is contingent upon funds renewing their coverage and paying any additional required fee. The Secretary of the Treasury may further extend the program until Sept. 18, 2009; however, no decision has been made to extend the program beyond April 30, 2009.  

Each Dreyfus and BNY Mellon Funds Trust money market fund has entered into a Guarantee Agreement 

 with the Department of the Treasury which permits these funds to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program. On Dec. 12, 2008, the funds renewed their coverage, via the extension discussed above, to ensure continued protection.  

U.S. Treasury program – investment in U.S. financial institutions  

In October 2008, the U.S. government announced the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) authorized under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”). The intention of this program is to encourage U.S. financial institutions to build capital, to increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and to support the U.S. economy. On Oct. 14, 2008, the Company announced that it would be part of the initial group of nine institutions in which the U.S. Treasury would purchase an equity stake. Since Oct. 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury has purchased an equity position in many institutions.  

The Company agreed to issue and sell to the U.S. Treasury preferred stock and a warrant to purchase shares of common stock in accordance with the terms of the CPP for an aggregate purchase price of $3 billion. As a result, on Oct. 28, 2008, we issued $3 billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B ($2.779 billion), and a warrant for common stock ($221 million), as described below, to the U.S. Treasury. The Series B preferred stock will pay cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum until the fifth anniversary of the date of the investment and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum. Dividends will be payable quarterly in arrears on March 20, June 20, Sept. 20 and Dec. 20 of each year. The Series B preferred stock can only be redeemed within the first three years with the proceeds of at least $750 million from one or more qualified equity offerings. After Dec. 20, 2011, the Series B preferred stock may be redeemed in whole or in part, at any time, at our option, at a price equal to 100% of the issue price plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. Redemption of the Series B preferred stock at any time will be subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) enacted Feb. 17, 2009, the U.S. Treasury, subject to consultation with the appropriate Federal banking agency, is required to permit a TARP recipient to repay any assistance previously provided under TARP to such financial institution, without regard to whether the financial institution has replaced such funds from any other source or to any waiting period. When such 

10 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 assistance is repaid, the U.S. Treasury is required to liquidate warrants associated with such assistance at the current market price. The Series B preferred stock qualifies as Tier I capital.  

The proceeds from the Series B preferred stock have been utilized to improve the flow of funds in the financial markets. Specifically we have:  

   •    Purchased mortgage-backed securities and debentures issued by U.S. government-sponsored agencies to support efforts to increase the amount of money available to lend to qualified borrowers in the residential housing market.  

   •    Purchased debt securities of other financial institutions, which helps increase the amount of funds available to lend to consumers and businesses.  

   •    Continued to make loans to other financial institutions through the interbank lending market.  

All of these efforts address the need to improve liquidity in the financial system and are consistent with our business model which is focused on institutional clients.  

FDIC temporary liquidity guarantee program  

In October 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. This program:  

   •    Guarantees certain types of senior unsecured debt issued by most U.S. bank holding companies, U.S. savings and loan holding companies and FDIC-insured depositary institutions between Oct. 14, 2008 and the earlier of (i) June 30, 2009 and (if applicable) (ii) the date the FDIC-insured bank elects not to participate in the program – a decision that must have been made no later than Dec. 5, 2008, including promissory notes, commercial paper and any unsecured portion of secured debt. The Company did not elect to opt out of this program. Prepayment of debt not guaranteed by the FDIC and replacement with FDIC-guaranteed debt is not permitted. The amount of debt covered by the guarantee may not exceed 125 percent of the par value of the issuing entity’s senior unsecured debt, excluding debt extended to affiliates or institution-affiliated parties, outstanding as of Sept. 30, 2008, that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009 (this date may be extended). For FDIC guaranteed debt issued on or before June 30, 2009, an annualized assessment rate will be paid to the FDIC equal to 50 or 75 points multiplied by the amount of debt with a maturity of less than one year. For 

 debt with a maturity of greater than one year, the annualized assessment rate is 100 basis points. For FDIC-guaranteed debt issued on or before June 30, 2009, the guarantee will terminate on the earlier of the maturity of the debt or June 30, 2012.  

   •    Provides full FDIC deposit insurance coverage for funds held by FDIC-insured banks in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts at FDIC-insured depositary institutions until Dec. 31, 2009. For such accounts, a 10 basis point surcharge on the depositary institution’s current assessment rate will be applied to deposits not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. At Dec. 31, 2008, $49.9 billion of deposits with us were covered by the temporary liquidity guarantee program.  

The FDIC adopted the Final Rule implementing the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program on Nov. 21, 2008. Participation in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program resulted in $7 million, pre-tax, of additional expense, recorded in other expenses, in 2008 and is expected to result in $50 million, pre-tax, of additional expense, or $0.03 per common share, in 2009, based on deposit levels at Dec. 31, 2008.  

At Dec. 31, 2008, the Company was eligible to issue approximately $600 million of FDIC-guaranteed debt under this program.  

Money market investor funding facility  

In October, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced the creation of the Money Market Investor Funding Facility (“MMIFF”), which will support a private-sector initiative designed to provide liquidity to U.S. money market investors.  

Under the MMIFF, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York will provide senior secured financing to a series of special purpose vehicles (“SPVs”) that will purchase high-quality money market instruments maturing in 90 days or less from U.S. money market funds. Eligible assets will include U.S. dollar-denominated certificates of deposit and commercial paper issued by highly rated financial institutions and having remaining maturities of 90 days or less. Eligible investors will include U.S. money market mutual funds and over time may include other U.S. money market investors. In January 2009, the Federal Reserve expanded the set of institutions eligible to participate in the MMIFF from U.S. money market mutual funds to also include U.S.-based securities lending cash collateral reinvestment funds, portfolios and accounts (securities lenders) and U.S.- 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 11  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 based investment funds that operate in a manner similar to money market mutual funds, such as certain local government investment pools, common trust funds and collective investment funds.  

The MMIFF became operational on Nov. 24, 2008. SPVs were eligible to begin purchasing assets on Nov. 24, 2008 and will cease purchasing assets on Oct. 30, 2009, unless the Federal Reserve Board extends the MMIFF. As of Feb. 25, 2009, none of the Company’s money market funds or investment funds that operate in a manner similar to money market mutual funds had offered assets for sale to these SPVs.  

Privacy  

The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including the Company, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to “opt out” of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes.  

Community Reinvestment Act  

The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 requires banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities, including credit to low and moderate income individuals and geographies. Should the Company or its bank subsidiaries fail to adequately serve these communities, potential penalties could be imposed, including regulatory denials to expand branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, expand into new financial activities and merge with or purchase other financial institutions.  

Legislative Initiatives  

Various legislative initiatives are from time to time introduced in Congress or relevant state legislatures. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have upon our financial condition or operations.  

Acquisitions  

Federal and state laws impose approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions involving depository institutions or bank holding companies. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board for the direct or indirect acquisition of 

 more than 5.0% of any class of the voting shares or all or substantially all of the assets of a commercial bank, savings and loan association or bank holding company. In reviewing bank acquisition and merger applications, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect of the transaction, financial and managerial issues including the capital position of the combined organization, convenience and needs factors, including the applicant’s record under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. In addition, other acquisitions by the Company may be subject to informal approval by the Federal Reserve Board or other regulatory authorities.  

Competition  

The Company is subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Asset Management and Wealth Management business segments experience competition from asset management firms; hedge funds; investment banking companies; bank and financial holding companies; banks, including trust banks; brokerage firms; and insurance companies. These firms/companies can be domiciled domestically or internationally. Our Asset Servicing, Clearing and Treasury Services business segments compete with domestic and foreign banks offering institutional trust and custody products and cash management products and a wide range of technologically capable service providers, such as data processing and shareholder service firms and other firms that rely on automated data transfer and capture services for institutional and retail customers.  

Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies and banks, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the “Supervision and Regulation” section and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects.  

As a result of current conditions in the global financial markets and the economy in general, competition could intensify and consolidation of financial service companies could increase.  

As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive 

12 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to this. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors – Competition” below, which is incorporated into this Item by reference.  

Employees  

At Dec. 31, 2008, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 42,900 employees.  

Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies  

The Securities Act of 1933 Industry Guide 3 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Industry Guide 3 (together “Guide 3”) require that the following statistical disclosures be made in annual reports on Form 10-K filed by bank holding companies.  

 I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in “Net Interest Revenue”, “Average Balances and Interest Rates” and the “Supplemental information – rate/volume analysis” sections and in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

II. Securities Portfolio  

A. Carrying Values of Securities and  

B. Maturity Distribution of Securities  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review - Investment securities” section and in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference.  

III. Loan Portfolio  

A. Types of Loans and  

B. Maturities and Sensitivities to Changes in Interest Rates  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated 

balance sheet review -- Loans” section and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

C. Risk Elements and  

D. Other Interest-bearing Assets  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review -- Loans, Non-performing assets and Cross-border risk” sections and Note 1 and Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses” section, which is incorporated herein by reference, and below.  

When losses on specific loans are identified, management charges off the portion deemed uncollectible. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the “Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses” section in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management’s judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report “Credit Risk” section, the “Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses” section, in “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under “Allowance for Loan Losses and Allowance for Lending Related Commitments” and in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

V. Deposits  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Average Balances and Interest Rates” and “Deposits” sections and in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 13  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 VI. Return on Equity and Assets  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Financial Summary” section, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

VII. Short-Term Borrowings  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Other Borrowings” section, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

VIII. Replacement Capital Covenant  

On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the “RCC”) in connection with the issuance by Mellon Financial of £200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon Financial’s 6.369% junior subordinated debentures (the “Junior Subordinated Debt Securities”) to Mellon Capital III (the “Trust”) and the issuance by the Trust of £200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Trust’s 6.369% preferred securities (the “Preferred Securities”). We refer to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the Preferred Securities collectively as the “Securities.” Pursuant to the merger, the Company assumed Mellon Financial’s obligations under the RCC.  

The Company agreed in the RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt” in the RCC, that, on or before Sept. 5, 2056:  

 •    the Company and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the Securities, with limited exceptions, unless  

   •    the Company has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies, and  

   •    the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that the Company and its subsidiaries have received during the six months prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or the date of such repurchase from issuance of other securities specified in the RCC that, 

 generally described, based on current standards are expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the Securities at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and  

 •    the Company will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the RCC, subject to certain limitations, and the Company will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has elected to capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is the Covered Debt under the RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is the Company’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including the Company’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such series, (ii) if the Company or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date, and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which the Company issues a series of long term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the RCC but is subordinated debt. The RCC includes provisions under which a new series of the Company’s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the RCC.  

The full text of the RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial’s current report on Form 8-K dated Sept. 20, 2006. The description of the RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text. 

14 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

On June 19, 2007, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the “2007 RCC”) in connection with the issuance by Mellon Financial of $500,100,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon Financial’s 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes (the “Junior Notes”) to Mellon Capital IV (the “2007 Trust”) and the issuance by the 2007 Trust of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or “Normal PCS” (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the “PCS”), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate. Pursuant to the merger, the Company assumed Mellon Financial’s obligation under the 2007 RCC.  

The Company agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt” in the 2007 RCC, that on or before the “Stock Purchase Date”, as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2012), with respect to the Junior Notes, and on or before a date ten years after the Stock Purchase Date, with respect to the PCS or Preferred Stock issuable pursuant to the terms of the PCS (collectively, the Junior Notes, PCS and Preferred Stock are referred to as the “2007 Securities”):  

 •    the Company and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless  

   •    the Company has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies and  

   •    the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that the Company and its subsidiaries have received during the 180 days prior to delivery of notice of such redemption or repurchase from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on current standards, are expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is the Covered Debt under the 2007 RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is the Company’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including Mellon Financial’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series; (ii) if the Company or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date; and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the 2007 RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which the Company issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the 2007 RCC but is subordinated debt. The 2007 RCC includes provisions under which a new series of the Company’s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the 2007 RCC.  

The full text of the 2007 RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial’s current report on Form 8-K dated June 20, 2007. The description of the 2007 RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS