ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

Our ability to become profitable and our ability to continue to fund our obligations on an ongoing basis will depend on a number of risk factors, many of which are largely beyond our control.  

CHAPTER 11 REORGANIZATION RISKS  

We filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on November 29, 2011 and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 Cases.  

For the duration of our Chapter 11 Cases, our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. Risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 Cases include the following:  

   •    our creditors or other third parties may take actions or make decisions that are inconsistent with and detrimental to the plans we believe to be in the best interests of the Company;  

   •    we may be unable to obtain court approval with respect to certain matters in the Chapter 11 Cases from time to time;  

   •    the court may not agree with our objections to positions taken by other parties;  

   •    we may not be able to confirm and consummate a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization or may be delayed in doing so;  

   •    we may not be able to obtain and maintain normal credit terms with vendors, strategic partners and service providers;  

   •    we may not be able to continue to invest in our products and services, which could hurt our competitiveness;  

   •    we may not be able to enter into or maintain contracts that are critical to our operations at competitive rates and terms, if at all, including hedging strategies to assist in controlling our fuel costs;  

   •    we may be exposed to risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining court approval to (i) terminate or shorten our exclusivity period to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization, (ii) appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or (iii) convert the cases to Chapter 7 liquidation cases; and  

   •    our customers may choose to travel on other air carriers.  

These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events, the positions we take in court, or publicity associated with our Chapter 11 Cases could adversely affect our sales of tickets and our relationship with our customers, as well as with vendors and our people, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 Cases, the ultimate impact of events that occur during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. If any one or more of these risks materializes, it could affect our ability to continue as a going concern.  

We have proposed a business plan that we may not be able to implement.  

On February 1, 2012, we announced the principal terms of a business plan that is designed to restore the Company to industry leadership, profitability and growth. The chief components of this business plan include targets of an annual $2 billion in cost savings and $1 billion in revenue enhancement. In particular, our business plan contemplates significant reductions in both non-labor and labor costs by, among other things, reducing headcount by approximately 13,000, outsourcing a portion of American’s aircraft maintenance work (including seeking the closure of our Fort Worth Alliance Airport maintenance base) and certain airport fleet service clerk work, terminating American’s defined benefits pension plans, and discontinuing our subsidized retiree medical coverage for current employees. If we are unable to implement one or more key elements of our business plan, we may find it difficult to successfully restructure.  

In order to reach the labor cost reduction target required by the business plan, changes to American’s existing union contracts are necessary. American’s proposed changes will include cost savings and changes to work rules and scope clauses. We believe these changes are critical to a successful reorganization and American. American has commenced good faith negotiations with its unions regarding these changes pursuant to the process provided for under Section 1113 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. If American cannot reach a consensual agreement with any of its unions that provides for changes to the union’s existing collective bargaining agreement that are necessary to achieve the required cost reductions and improved efficiencies, American will ask the Bankruptcy Court to approve its rejection of that collective bargaining agreement. We cannot predict whether the Bankruptcy Court will approve any such request for the rejection of a collective bargaining agreement.  

9  

Our business plan also contemplates a significant reduction in the number of people employed by our Company. It is possible that various state and local groups, including state and local governments, will oppose the reduction of jobs in their areas. We cannot predict what effect a public campaign to retain jobs and the related adverse publicity might have on our relations with our customers, our people, suppliers, strategic partners and other third parties, but it is possible that negative campaigns and publicity could materially and adversely affect our business and operations.  

We are in the process of renegotiating numerous agreements, including those relating to aircraft financings and other indebtedness and leases, to achieve cost savings we believe are necessary to our restructuring. We may not be able to achieve consensual renegotiation of these agreements on terms sufficient to effect the cost savings required by our business plan. Also, as part of the process of renegotiating agreements, we may reject certain of those agreements in our Chapter 11 Cases. We cannot predict whether we would be able to enter into new agreements to replace any rejected agreements (some of which may be material) on acceptable terms, or at all.  

Operating under Chapter 11 may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.  

Under Chapter 11, transactions outside the ordinary course of business will be subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. We must obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to, among other things:  

   •    engage in certain transactions with our vendors;  

   •    buy or sell assets outside the ordinary course of business;  

   •    consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and  

   •    borrow for our operations, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.  

Our people face considerable uncertainty due to the Chapter 11 Cases.  

As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, our people are facing considerable uncertainty. A material erosion of our people’s commitment could have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted.  

The Company’s businesses could suffer from a protracted restructuring.  

The Company’s future results are dependent upon the timely and successful filing, confirmation and implementation of a plan of reorganization. If a restructuring is protracted, it could adversely affect the Company’s operating results, including its relationships with its people, vendors, strategic partners and customers. If we experience a protracted reorganization, there is a significant risk that the value of the Company’s enterprise would be substantially eroded to the detriment of all stakeholders.  

Our ability to emerge from Chapter 11 and thereafter operate profitably will depend on increasing our revenue, lowering our costs, and obtaining sufficient financing or other capital to operate successfully.  

It is too early in the Chapter 11 process for us to have developed our ultimate plan of reorganization. However, for our ultimate plan of reorganization to be effective, we will need to increase our revenue, lower our costs, reduce our liabilities, and obtain and/or demonstrate the sufficiency of financing and/or other capital to operate after emergence.  

We currently plan to drive revenue growth by investing heavily in renewing and optimizing our fleet, building both network scale and our alliances, and investing several hundred million dollars annually in modernizing our brand, products and services. Significant capital resources will be required to achieve the envisioned revenue growth. In order to emerge from  

10  

 and operate successfully after the conclusion of our Chapter 11 Cases, we will need sufficient financing or other capital resources, some of which may be subject to Bankruptcy Court approval. Depending on numerous factors, many of which are out of our control, such as the state of the domestic and global economy, the credit market’s view of our prospects and the airline industry in general, and the general availability of debt and equity capital at the time we conclude the Chapter 11 process, the financing and other capital that we will need may not be available to us, or may only be available on onerous terms and conditions. There is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining financing or other needed sources of capital to successfully emerge from Chapter 11 and operate the Company. Inability to obtain sufficient financing or other capital may further delay the emergence of the Company from bankruptcy and/or limit our alternatives, which could result in our inability to continue as a going concern. Even if such financing or other capital is available, there is no guarantee that we will achieve the desired revenue growth.  

Our current cost structure is heavily driven by labor costs, pension obligations and existing levels of indebtedness. Our business plan contemplates that we will significantly reduce our overall headcount to achieve a meaningful portion of the necessary cost reductions. American also intends to terminate its defined benefit plans and we plan to discontinue subsidized retiree medical coverage for current employees. Furthermore, our business plan contemplates extracting savings by restructuring, renegotiating, and/or rejecting a substantial portion of our debt, lease and other obligations. Nevertheless, following our emergence from Chapter 11, we expect to have significant debt, lease and other obligations. We also expect to make substantial capital expenditures, including those related to aircraft acquisitions, during and following the Chapter 11 process. In general, any of these proposed actions taken during Chapter 11 will be subject to Bankruptcy Court approval, and our ability to take these actions is not entirely within our control. There is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully achieve the desired cost savings or meet our planned continuing obligations. Failure to implement substantial cost savings upon emergence could materially hamper our ability to operate profitably after emergence, and could result in our inability to continue as a going concern.  

Third parties may propose competing Chapter 11 plans of reorganization and we may receive unsolicited offers for the Company or our assets.  

Chapter 11 gives us the exclusive right to file a plan of reorganization during the first 120 days after filing. That period can be extended for cause up to a total of 18 months from the Petition Date with approval of the Bankruptcy Court. While we intend to conclude our Chapter 11 Cases during this so-called “exclusivity period”, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. After the expiration of the exclusivity period, third parties can file one or more Chapter 11 plans for the Debtors. An alternative plan of reorganization could contemplate the Company continuing as a going concern, the Company being broken up, the Company or its assets being acquired by a third party, the Company being merged with a competitor, or some other proposal. We may not believe that such an alternative plan of reorganization is in our stakeholders’ best interests or fully values the benefits to be achieved by our reorganization. If we cannot successfully obtain approval of our plan of reorganization during the exclusivity period, we may have limited ability to prevent an alternative plan of reorganization from being approved by the Bankruptcy Court.  

Companies in Chapter 11 are often the target of unsolicited merger and acquisition offers, and there is no guarantee that we will emerge from Chapter 11 as a standalone company. An unsolicited proposal or alternative plan of reorganization could potentially delay our emergence from Chapter 11 and expose us to a number of other risks, including potential limitations on our ability to execute our business plan and strategic initiatives; difficulties in hiring, retaining and motivating key personnel; negative reactions among our people, vendors, strategic partners and service providers; a failure to provide stakeholders full value for the benefits that could be achieved by the Company post-emergence on a stand-alone basis; and unease and uncertainty among our customer base. In addition, any potential transaction proposed during Chapter 11, even if we decided such transaction was in our best interest, would be expressly subject to Bankruptcy Code requirements and Bankruptcy Court approval.  

We may be subject to claims that will not be discharged in the Chapter 11 Cases.  

The Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from substantially all debts arising prior to confirmation. With few exceptions, all claims that arose prior to the filing of our Chapter 11 Cases (i) will be subject to compromise and/or treatment under the plan of reorganization or (ii) will be discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of the plan of reorganization. However, there can be no assurance that the aggregate amount of such claims that are not subject to treatment under the plan of reorganization or that are not discharged will not be material.  

11  

LIQUIDITY RISKS  

We may not have sufficient cash to maintain our operations during Chapter 11 and fund our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases.  

We entered Chapter 11 with approximately $4.1 billion in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents. We plan to finance certain aircraft scheduled to be delivered to us during Chapter 11 for which we have not previously arranged financing, but we do not currently expect to require any debtor-in-possession financing. However, because of our weakened financial condition, we will continue to have heightened exposure to, and less ability to withstand, the operating risks that are customary in the industry, such as volatile fuel costs, global events leading to reduced demand for air travel, the potential obligation to post reserves under credit card processing agreements, the potential obligation to post cash collateral on fuel hedging contracts, severe weather that results in significant flight cancellations or reduced travel demand, and competitors’ reduction of ticket pricing. Any of these factors could result in the need for substantial additional funding. If we determine that debtor-in-possession financing is useful or necessary to continue operations, we may find that it is very difficult and expensive, or impossible, to obtain, as sources for such financing are limited and we have a very limited quantity of assets which could be used as collateral for such financings.  

A number of other factors, including our Chapter 11 filing, our financial results in recent years, our substantial indebtedness, the competitive revenue environment we face, recent historically high fuel prices, and the financial difficulties experienced in the airline industry, adversely affect the availability and terms of funding that might be available to us during, and upon emergence from, our Chapter 11 Cases. In addition, the global economic downturn resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and substantially more limited availability of funding. As a result of these and other factors, there can be no assurances that we will be able to source capital at acceptable rates and on acceptable terms, if at all, to fund our current operations and our exit from Chapter 11. An inability to obtain necessary additional funding on acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on us and on our ability to sustain our operations, both currently and upon emergence from Chapter 11.  

As a result of significant losses in recent years, our financial condition has been materially weakened.  

We incurred significant losses in recent years, which have materially weakened our financial condition. We lost $893 million in 2005, $781 million in 2004, $1.2 billion in 2003, $3.5 billion in 2002 and $1.8 billion in 2001. Although we earned a profit of $456 million in 2007 and $189 million in 2006, we lost $2.1 billion in 2008 (which included a $1.2 billion impairment charge), and we lost $1.5 billion in 2009 and $471 million in 2010. In addition, we lost a total of $2.0 billion in 2011 (including $917 million in non-cash charges). Because of our weakened financial condition, even though we are operating under the protections of Chapter 11, we are vulnerable both to the impact of unexpected events and to deterioration of the operating environment (such as a significant increase in jet fuel prices, a significant decrease in travel demand, or significant increase in competition).  

Our indebtedness and other obligations are substantial and could adversely affect our ongoing business and liquidity.  

We have, and we expect that after emergence from Chapter 11 we will continue to have, significant amounts of indebtedness and other obligations, including obligations to make future payments on aircraft equipment and property leases and obligations under aircraft purchase agreements, as well as a significant proportion of debt to equity capital. Although we are seeking to substantially reduce our debt and lease obligations in Chapter 11, we cannot predict to what extent these efforts will be successful. We expect to incur substantial additional debt (including secured debt) and lease obligations in the future. We also currently have substantial pension funding obligations and we cannot predict whether or to what extent our pension funding obligations will be reduced during the proceedings in Chapter 11. Our substantial indebtedness and other obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could:  

   •    limit our ability to obtain additional funding for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes, and adversely affect the terms on which such funding can be obtained;  

   •    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and other obligations, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;  

   •    make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and catastrophic external events; and  

   •    limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.  

12  

We could be required to maintain reserves under our credit card processing agreements, which could materially adversely impact our liquidity.  

American has agreements with a number of credit card companies and processors to accept credit cards for the sale of air travel and other services. Under certain of these agreements, the related credit card processor may hold back a reserve from American’s credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including the failure of American to maintain certain levels of liquidity (as specified in each agreement).  

Under such agreements, the amount of the reserve that may be required generally is based on the processor’s exposure to the Company under the applicable agreement and, in the case a reserve is required because of American’s failure to maintain a certain level of liquidity, the amount of such liquidity. As of February 1, 2012, the Company was not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. If circumstances were to occur that would allow the credit card processor to require the Company to maintain a reserve, the Company’s liquidity would be negatively impacted.  

COMMON STOCK RISKS  

Trading in our securities during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. It is probable our common stock will be cancelled and that holders of such common stock will not receive any distribution with respect to, or be able to recover any portion of, their investments.  

It is too early to determine if our Chapter 11 plan of reorganization will allow for distributions with respect to our common stock. It is likely that these equity interests will be cancelled and extinguished upon the approval of the Bankruptcy Court and the holders thereof would not be entitled to receive, and would not receive or retain, any property or interest in property on account of such equity interests. In the event of a cancellation of these equity interests, amounts invested by such holders in our outstanding equity securities will not be recoverable. Consequently, our currently outstanding common stock would have no value. Trading prices for our common stock are very volatile and may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by the holders of such securities in the Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, we urge that extreme caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in our equity securities and any of our other securities.  

Our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and is not listed on any other national securities exchange.  

Trading in the Company’s common stock and certain debt securities on the NYSE was suspended on January 5, 2012, and the Company’s common stock and such debt securities were delisted by the SEC from the NYSE on January 30, 2012. On January 5, 2012, the Company’s common stock began trading under the symbol “AAMRQ” on the OTCQB marketplace, operated by OTC Markets Group.  

We can provide no assurance that we will be able to re-list our common stock on a national securities exchange or that the stock will continue being traded on the OTCQB marketplace. The trading of our common stock on the OTCQB marketplace rather than the New York Stock Exchange may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, securities that trade on the OTCQB marketplace are not eligible for margin loans and make our common stock subject to the provisions of Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), commonly referred to as the “penny stock rule.”  

Risks of trading in an over-the-counter market.  

Securities traded in the over-the-counter market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, due to factors such as the reduced number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the reduced number of market makers in the securities, and the reduced number of securities analysts that follow such securities. As a result, holders of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock that could occur, the share price of our common stock could be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the markets perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors, parties with whom we have business relationships or third parties with interests in the Chapter 11 Cases. With respect to the Company, in some cases, we may be subject to additional compliance requirements under applicable state laws in the issuance of our securities. The lack of liquidity in our common stock may also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future.  

13  

If holders of common stock recover any portion of their investment they may be subject to substantial dilution as a result of future issuances of our common stock.  

We may issue common stock to satisfy creditors and any plan of reorganization may include an equity-based incentive compensation plan. The amount and dilutive effect of any such issuance cannot be determined at this time.  

BUSINESS RISKS  

The severe global economic downturn resulted in very weak demand for air travel, which has had and could continue to have a significant negative impact on us.  

Although demand for air travel has improved from the severe downturn a couple of years ago, demand for air travel may weaken if the global economy does not continue to recover. We have been adjusting our capacity in response to trends in demand. No assurance can be given that capacity adjustments or other steps we may take in response to changes in demand will be successful. Capacity reductions or other steps might result in special charges in the future. Further, other carriers may make capacity adjustments which may reduce the expected benefits of any steps we may take to respond to changes in demand. Industry-wide capacity may increase to the extent the economy continues to recover from the global recession. If industry capacity increases, and if consumer demand does not continue to pace those increases, we, and the airline industry as a whole, could be negatively impacted.  

Our initiatives to generate additional revenues and to reduce our costs may not be adequate or successful.  

As we seek to improve our financial condition, we must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to achieve a competitive cost structure during the Chapter 11 Cases. As described above, our business plan contains numerous initiatives to reduce our costs and increase our revenues. The adequacy and ultimate success of our initiatives to generate additional revenues and/or reduce our costs cannot be assured. Moreover, whether our initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond our control. For example, any of the following could negatively impact the success of our initiatives: the positions that may be taken by our unions and contract counterparties and others with concerns about our business plan, such as the PBGC and governmental and community leaders; whether the Creditors’ Committee will support our business plan; whether we are able to persuade the Bankruptcy Court to rule in our favor on the numerous matters that will be required to successfully emerge from the Chapter 11 Cases; and, in general, the overall industry environment, including customer demand, yield and industry capacity growth, actions of our competitors and fuel prices. It will be very difficult for us to continue to fund our obligations on an ongoing basis, and to return to profitability, if the overall industry revenue environment does not continue to improve or if fuel prices were to increase and persist for an extended period at high levels.  

We may be adversely affected by increases in fuel prices, and we would be adversely affected by disruptions in the supply of fuel.  

Our results are very significantly affected by the cost, price volatility and the availability of jet fuel, which are in turn affected by a number of factors beyond our control. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, we may not be able to pass on increased fuel prices to customers by increasing fares. Although we had some success in raising fares and imposing fuel surcharges in reaction to high fuel prices, these fare increases and surcharges did not keep pace with the extraordinary increases in the price of fuel that occurred in 2007 and 2008. Although fuel prices have abated considerably from the record high prices recorded in July 2008, they remain high and extremely volatile. Furthermore, reduced demand or increased fare competition, or both, and resulting lower revenues may offset any potential benefit of any reductions in fuel prices.  

Dependence on foreign imports of crude oil, limited refining capacity and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the future availability of jet fuel. If there are additional outbreaks of hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas or elsewhere, or a reduction in refining capacity (due to natural disasters or weather events, for example), or governmental limits on the production or sale of jet fuel (including as a consequence of increased environmental regulation), there could be a reduction in the supply of jet fuel and significant increases in the cost of jet fuel. Major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost would have a material adverse impact on us.  

We have a large number of older aircraft in our fleet, and these aircraft are not as fuel efficient as more recent models of aircraft. We believe it is imperative that we continue to execute our fleet renewal plans. Our assumption of our contracts for new, more efficient aircraft with Boeing and Airbus is subject to Bankruptcy Court approval and cannot be assured. The Bankruptcy Court has approved certain procedures to allow us to continue to take delivery of new Boeing 737 and Boeing 777 aircraft through 2012, subject to objection by the official committee of unsecured creditors for our Chapter 11 Cases and subject to certain limitations.  

14  

Our aviation fuel purchase contracts generally do not provide meaningful price protection. While we seek to manage the risk of fuel price increases by using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that, at any given time, we will have derivatives in place to provide any particular level of protection against increased fuel costs. In addition, our Chapter 11 Cases may negatively affect our ability to enter into derivative contracts. Moreover, we may be required to post material amounts of cash collateral based on the size and market value of the contracts, and if such contracts close when fuel prices are below the applicable levels, we would be required to make payments to close such contracts; these payments would be treated as additional fuel expense.  

We could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to resolve favorably our pending litigation with certain GDSs and business discussions with certain on-line travel agents.  

We are currently involved in litigation with certain GDSs and in business discussions with certain on-line travel agents. An adverse outcome in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our level of bookings, business and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—GDS Discussion.” Agreements with the GDSs operated by Sabre, Travelport and Amadeus have been extended beyond 2011. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to renegotiate acceptable new contractual terms for our participation in these systems.  

Our business is affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, and our results of operations tend to be volatile and fluctuate due to seasonality.  

Our business and our results of operations are affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including, among others:  

   •    actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation, higher interest rates, wars, terrorist attacks or political instability;  

   •    changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends;  

   •    changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, changes in airline alliance affiliations and other factors;  

   •    actual or potential disruptions to the air traffic control systems;  

   •    increases in costs of safety, security and environmental measures;  

   •    outbreaks of diseases that affect travel behavior; and  

   •    weather and natural disasters.  

Thus, our results from operations tend to be volatile and subject to rapid and unexpected change. In addition, due to generally greater demand for air travel during the summer, our revenues in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year.  

The airline industry is fiercely competitive and may undergo further consolidation or changes in industry alliances, and we are subject to increasing competition.  

Service over almost all of our routes is highly competitive. We face vigorous, and, in some cases, increasing, competition from major domestic airlines, national, regional, all-cargo and charter carriers, foreign air carriers, low-cost carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation. We also face significant competition from marketing/operational alliances formed by our competitors. Competition with foreign air carriers and with such marketing/operational alliances has been increasing in recent years in part due to the adoption of liberalized open skies aviation agreements between the United States and an increasing number of countries around the world. Moreover, the percentage of routes on which we compete with carriers having substantially lower operating costs than ours has grown significantly over time, and we now compete with low-cost carriers over a very large part of our network. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to achieve a competitive cost structure during Chapter 11. If we cannot do so, then our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected.  

15  

Certain airline alliances have been, or may in the future be, granted immunity from antitrust regulations by governmental authorities for specific areas of cooperation, such as joint pricing decisions. To the extent alliances formed by our competitors can undertake activities that are not available to us, our ability to effectively compete may be hindered.  

Pricing decisions are significantly affected by competition from other airlines. Fare discounting by competitors historically has had a negative effect on our financial results because we must generally match competitors’ fares, since failing to match would result in even less revenue. We have faced increased competition from carriers with simplified fare structures. Any fare reduction or fare simplification initiative may not be offset by increases in customer traffic, reduction in cost or changes in the mix of traffic that would improve yields. Moreover, decisions by our competitors that increase or reduce overall industry capacity, or capacity dedicated to a particular domestic or foreign region, market or route, can have a material impact on related fare levels.  

There have been numerous mergers and acquisitions within the airline industry and numerous changes in industry alliances. Southwest Airlines acquired AirTran in May 2011, and the recent mergers of United with Continental and Delta with Northwest have resulted in the formation of larger competitors than ourselves with more extensive networks than ours. We are seeking to address these competitive challenges with our market and alliance strategies; however there can be no assurances as to the level of success of these strategies.  

In the future, there may be additional mergers and acquisitions, and changes in airline alliances, including those in which we may participate and those that may be undertaken by others. Any airline industry consolidation or changes in airline alliances, including oneworld, could substantially alter the competitive landscape and result in changes in our corporate or business strategy. We regularly assess and explore the potential for consolidation in our industry and changes in airline alliances, our strategic position and ways to enhance our competitiveness, including the possibilities for our participation in merger activity. Consolidation involving other participants in our industry could result in the formation of one or more airlines with greater financial resources, more extensive networks, and/or lower cost structures than exist currently, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and adversely affect our business and results of operations. For similar reasons, changes in airline alliances could have a similar impact on us.  

We recently implemented a joint business agreement and related marketing arrangements with British Airways and Iberia, and antitrust-immunized cooperation with British Airways, Iberia, Finnair and Royal Jordanian. In addition, American recently implemented an antitrust-immunized joint business agreement with the Japan Airlines Group, and our JBA with Qantas recently received government approval. No assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits that we may derive from such arrangements.  

We compete with reorganized carriers, which results in competitive disadvantages for us.  

We must compete with air carriers that have reorganized under the protection of Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in recent years, including United, Delta and US Airways. It is possible that other significant competitors may seek to reorganize, or reorganize again, in or out of Chapter 11.  

Successful reorganizations by other carriers present us with competitors with significantly lower operating costs and stronger financial positions derived from renegotiated labor, supply, and financing contracts. If we are not able to obtain a competitive cost structure through the use of Chapter 11 it would have a material adverse impact on us.  

Fares are at low levels and our reduced pricing power adversely affects our ability to achieve adequate pricing.  

Our customer yield (on an inflation-adjusted basis) remains low and reflects a decline in our pricing power. Our reduced pricing power is the product of several factors including: greater cost sensitivity on the part of travelers; pricing transparency resulting from the use of the internet; greater competition from low-cost carriers and from carriers that have reorganized in recent years under the protection of Chapter 11; other carriers being better hedged against rising fuel costs and able to better absorb high jet fuel prices; and the economy. This pricing environment could persist indefinitely.  

Our corporate or business strategy may change.  

In light of the rapid changes in the airline industry, we evaluate our assets on an ongoing basis with a view to maximizing their value and determining which are core to our operations. We will evaluate our corporate and business strategies during the Chapter 11 process. Our corporate and business strategies are influenced by factors beyond our control, including changes in the competitive landscape we face and more recently the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases, and are, therefore, subject to change.  

16  

Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which can result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages. In particular, existing and possible future environmental regulations may adversely affect our business and financial results.  

Airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. Many of these requirements result in significant costs. For example, the FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft.  

On December 21, 2011, the FAA issued its final rule governing pilot rest periods and work hours for all carriers certificated under Part 121 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, including American and the AMR Eagle carriers. The rule, which is effective January 14, 2014, impacts the required amount and timing of rest periods for pilots between work assignments and modifies duty and rest requirements based on the time of day, number of scheduled segments, flight types, time zones and other factors. These regulations could have a material adverse impact on the Company and the industry upon implementation.  

In addition, as a result of heightened levels of concern regarding data privacy, we are subject to an increasing number of domestic and foreign laws regarding the privacy and security of passenger and employee data.  

Compliance with regulatory requirements drives significant expenditures and has in the past, and may in the future, cause disruptions to our operations. In addition, the ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time (such as through the adoption of an open skies policy), or because appropriate slots or facilities are not made available. Any such change could adversely impact the value of our international route authorities and related assets.  

Moreover, additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been enacted from time to time that have significantly increased the costs of airline operations, reduced the demand for air travel or restricted the way we can conduct our business. For example, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which became law in 2001, mandated the federalization of certain airport security procedures and resulted in the imposition of additional security requirements on airlines.  

The results of our operations, demand for air travel, and the manner in which we conduct our business each may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies, including:  

   •    changes in law which affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports, or the types of fees that can be charged to passengers;  

   •    the granting and timing of certain governmental approvals (including foreign government approvals) needed for codesharing alliances and other arrangements with other airlines;  

   •    restrictions on competitive practices (for example court orders, or agency regulations or orders, that would curtail an airline’s ability to respond to a competitor);  

   •    the adoption of new passenger security standards or regulations that impact customer service standards (for example, a “passenger bill of rights”);  

   •    restrictions on airport operations, such as restrictions on the use of takeoff and landing slots at airports or the auction or reallocation of slot rights currently or previously held by us; and  

   •    the adoption of more restrictive locally imposed noise restrictions. 

In addition, the U.S. air traffic control (ATC) system, which is operated by the FAA, is not successfully managing the growing demand for U.S. air travel. Air traffic controllers rely on outdated technologies that routinely overwhelm the system and compel airlines to fly inefficient, indirect routes. Long-term funding for the FAA expired on September 30, 2007. Reauthorization of legislation that funds the FAA, which includes proposals regarding upgrades to the ATC system, is under consideration in Congress. It is uncertain when such legislation will become law. In the meantime, FAA funding continues under temporary periodic extensions. The current extension expires on February 17, 2012. To date there have been 23 short-term extensions.  

17  

Many aspects of our operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation. The EU has adopted a directive under which each EU member state is required to extend the existing EU emissions trading scheme (ETS) to aviation. This will require us to annually submit emission allowances in order to operate flights to and from EU member states in January 2012 and thereafter, including flights between the U.S. and EU member states. In December 2009, the ATA, joined by American, Continental and United, filed a legal action in the United Kingdom (UK) challenging the implementation of the EU ETS as applied to aviation. The case was subsequently referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which in December 2011 upheld the validity of the EU ETS as applied to aviation. The case has been returned to the UK court for final disposition. We believe that non-EU governments are continuing to consider formal challenges to the EU ETS as applied to aviation. However, unless interim relief is granted, we will be required to continue to comply with the EU ETS during the pendency of any such challenges. Although the cost of compliance with the EU ETS is difficult to predict given the uncertainty of a number of variables, such as the number and price of emission allowances we may be required to purchase, such costs could be significant.  

Other legislative or regulatory actions addressing climate change and emissions from aviation that may be taken in the future by the U.S., state or foreign governments or through international treaties may adversely affect our business and financial results. The United Nations’ International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), for example, has adopted a resolution identifying certain fuel efficiency goals and emission trading system principles for international aviation, which may provide a basis for such future legislative or regulatory action. Climate change legislation was previously introduced in Congress; such legislation could be re-introduced in the future by Congress and state legislatures, and could contain provisions affecting the aviation industry. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency could seek to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft. It is currently unknown how climate change legislation or regulation, if enacted, would specifically apply to the aviation industry. However, the impact on us of any climate change legislation or regulation is likely to be adverse and related costs of compliance could be significant. Such legislation or regulation could result in, among other things, increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, the imposition of requirements to purchase emission offsets or credits, increased aircraft and equipment costs, and restrictions on the growth of airline operations. We continue to evaluate ongoing climate change developments at the international, federal and state levels and assess the potential associated impacts on our business and operations.  

We could be adversely affected by conflicts overseas or terrorist attacks.  

Actual or threatened U.S. military involvement in overseas operations has, on occasion, had an adverse impact on our business, financial position (including access to capital markets) and results of operations, and on the airline industry in general. The continuing conflict in Afghanistan, or other conflicts or events in the Middle East or elsewhere, may result in similar adverse impacts.  

The Terrorist Attacks had a material adverse impact on us. The occurrence of another terrorist attack (whether domestic or international and whether against us or another entity) could again have a material adverse impact on us.  

Our international operations are subject to economic and political instability and could be adversely affected by numerous events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control.  

Our current international activities and prospects could be adversely affected by our Chapter 11 proceedings, as well as factors such as reversals or delays in the opening of foreign markets, exchange controls, currency and political risks (including changes in exchange rates and currency devaluations), environmental regulation, increases in taxes and fees and changes in international government regulation of our operations, including the inability to obtain or retain needed route authorities and/or slots.  

For example, the open skies air services agreement between the U.S. and the EU which took effect in March 2008 provides airlines from the U.S. and EU member states open access to each other’s markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly beyond the U.S. and to any airport in the EU including London’s Heathrow Airport. The agreement has resulted in American facing increased competition in these markets, including Heathrow Airport. In addition, an open skies air services agreement between the U.S. and Japan that provides airlines from the U.S. and Japan open access to each other’s markets took effect in November 2010.  

We could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior.  

In the second quarter of 2009, there was an outbreak of the H1N1 virus which had an adverse impact throughout our network but primarily on our operations to and from Mexico. In 2003, there was an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which had an adverse impact primarily on our Asia operations. In addition, in the past there have been  

18  

 concerns about outbreaks or potential outbreaks of other diseases, such as avian flu. Any outbreak of a disease (including an additional outbreak of the H1N1 virus) that affects travel behavior could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, outbreaks of disease could result in quarantines of our personnel or an inability to access facilities or our aircraft, which could adversely affect our operations.  

Our labor costs are higher than those of our competitors.  

Wages, salaries and benefits constitute a significant percentage of our total operating expenses. In 2011, they constituted approximately 28 percent of our total operating expenses. All of the major hub-and-spoke carriers with which American competes have achieved significant labor cost savings through or outside of Chapter 11 proceedings. We believe American’s labor costs are higher than those of its primary competitors. These higher labor costs adversely affect our ability to achieve and sustain profitability, since we are competing with other airlines with lower labor costs. We are working to address these costs through the Chapter 11 process, but it cannot be predicted how long this labor cost disadvantage will exist. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to achieve a competitive labor cost structure during the Chapter 11 proceedings. A failure to successfully reduce our labor costs during the Chapter 11 proceedings could severely hamper our ability to emerge from Chapter 11 and our ability to operate successfully post-emergence, and could result in our inability to reorganize at all.  

We could be adversely affected if we are unable to have satisfactory relations with any unionized or other labor work group.  

Our business is labor intensive. To the extent that we are unable to have satisfactory relations with any labor work group (unionized or independent), our operations and our ability to execute our strategic plans could be adversely affected. In addition, any disruption by a labor work group (e.g., sick-out, slowdown, full or partial strike, or other job action) may materially adversely affect our operations and impair our financial performance.  

The majority of our people are represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under this act, the collective bargaining agreements among the Company’s subsidiaries and these organizations generally do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed to by the parties. Under the RLA, after receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the NMB to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months, and even for several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During that period (or after), a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new people to replace any striking workers.  

In accordance with the requirements of Section 1113 of the Bankruptcy Code, American has begun the process of negotiating with each of its unionized groups for changes to their respective collective bargaining agreements based on proposals which provide the necessary modifications to permit us to reorganize successfully, as contemplated by our business plan. If American cannot reach agreement with the representatives of the people covered by a particular collective bargaining agreement, Section 1113 permits American to reject the collective bargaining agreement in accordance with the provisions of that section. The Bankruptcy Court has the authority to approve American’s request for rejection of a collective bargaining agreement if the court determines that all of the requirements of Section 1113 have been met and the balance of the equities clearly favors rejection of the agreement.  

Higher than normal number of pilot retirements could adversely affect our operations and financial results.  

We experienced a higher than normal number of pilot retirements in the fall of 2011. We have reduced capacity and taken other steps in an effort to reduce the impact of these retirements. If pilot retirements were to exceed normal levels in the future, it may adversely affect our operations and financial results.  

19  

Increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse impact on us.  

We carry insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to our aircraft. As a result of the Terrorist Attacks, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to us, or significantly increase its cost, we would be adversely affected.  

The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines through September 30, 2012, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government were to cease providing such insurance in whole or in part, it is likely that we could obtain comparable coverage in the commercial market, but we could incur substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if such coverage is available at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate war-risk coverage at commercially reasonable rates, we would be adversely affected.  

We may be unable to retain key management personnel.  

We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our key management people, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them. Inability to retain our key management people, or attract and retain additional qualified management people, could have a negative impact on us.  

We are increasingly dependent on technology and could be adversely affected by a failure or disruption of our computer, communications or other technology systems.  

We are heavily and increasingly dependent on technology to operate our business, reduce our costs and enhance customer service. The computer and communications systems on which we rely could be disrupted due to various events, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment failures, system implementation failures, software failures and computer viruses and hackers. We have taken certain steps to help reduce the risk of some (but not all) of these potential disruptions. There can be no assurance, however, that the measures we have taken are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions or failures of these systems. Any substantial or repeated failure of these systems could impact our operations and customer service, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenues, and increased costs, and generally harm our business. Moreover, a failure of certain of our vital systems could limit our ability to operate our flights for an extended period of time, which would have a material adverse impact on our operations and our business. In addition, we will need to continue to make significant investments in technology to pursue initiatives to reduce costs and enhance customer service. If we are unable to make these investments, our business could be negatively impacted.  

We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity which might result from an accident involving any of our aircraft.  

If one of our aircraft were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. In the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft operated by us could adversely affect the public’s perception of us.  

Interruptions or disruptions in service at one or more of our primary market airports could have an adverse impact on us.  

Our business is heavily dependent on our operations at our primary market airports in Dallas/Fort Worth, Chicago, Miami, New York City and Los Angeles. Each of these operations includes flights that gather and distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region around the primary market to other major cities. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one or more of our primary markets could adversely impact our operations.  

20  

The airline industry is heavily taxed.  

The airline industry is subject to extensive government fees and taxation that negatively impact our revenue. The U.S. airline industry is one of the most heavily taxed of all industries. These fees and taxes have grown significantly in the past decade for domestic flights and various U.S. fees and taxes also are assessed on international flights. In addition, the governments of foreign countries in which we operate impose on U.S. airlines, including us, various fees and taxes, and these assessments have been increasing in number and amount in recent years. Under new Department of Transportation regulations that take effect on January 24, 2012, all government taxes and fees must be included in the fares we quote or advertise to our customers. Due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in these fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the customer. Further increases in fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel, and thus our revenues.  

21  

 ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

The Company had no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments at December 31, 2011.  

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES