ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Forward-Looking Information  

The discussions under Business, Risk Factors, Properties and Legal Proceedings, and the following discussions under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” contain various forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which represent the Company’s expectations or beliefs concerning future events. When used in this document and in documents incorporated herein by reference, the words “expects,” “estimates,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “indicates,” “believes,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “targets” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Similarly, statements that describe the Company’s objectives, plans or goals, or actions the Company may take in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the Company’s expectations concerning operations and financial conditions, including changes in capacity, revenues, and costs; future financing plans and needs; the amounts of its unencumbered assets and other sources of liquidity; fleet plans; overall economic and industry conditions; plans and objectives for future operations; regulatory approvals and actions; and the impact on the Company of its results of operations in recent years and the sufficiency of its financial resources to absorb that impact. Other forward-looking statements include statements which do not relate solely to historical facts, such as, without limitation, statements which discuss the possible future effects of current known trends or uncertainties, or which indicate that the future effects of known trends or uncertainties cannot be predicted, guaranteed or assured. All forward-looking statements in this report are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this report. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Guidance given in this report regarding capacity, fuel consumption, fuel prices, fuel hedging and unit costs are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from the Company’s expectations. The Risk Factors listed in Item 1A could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from historical results and from those expressed in forward-looking statements.  

Chapter 11 Proceedings  

Overview  

As previously discussed, on November 29, 2011, AMR and certain of its direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. The Chapter 11 Cases are being jointly administered under the caption “in re AMR Corporation, et al, Case No. 11-15463-SHL.”  

The Company and the other Debtors are operating as “debtors-in-possession” under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code. In general, as debtors-in-possession under the Bankruptcy Code, we are authorized to continue to operate as an ongoing business but may not engage in transactions outside the ordinary course of business without the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court. The Bankruptcy Code enables the Company to continue to operate its business without interruption and the Bankruptcy Court has granted additional relief, covering among other things, obligations to (i) employees, (ii) taxing authorities, (iii) insurance providers, (iv) independent contractors for improvement projects, (v) foreign vendors, (vi) other airlines pursuant to certain interline agreements, and (vii) certain vendors deemed critical to the Debtors’ operations.  

While operating as debtors-in-possession under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors may sell or otherwise dispose of or liquidate assets or settle liabilities, subject to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court or otherwise as permitted in the ordinary course of business. Moreover, the Debtors have not yet prepared or filed with the Bankruptcy Court a plan of reorganization. The ultimate plan of reorganization, which would be subject to acceptance by the requisite majorities of empowered creditors under the Bankruptcy Code and approved by the Bankruptcy Court, could materially change the amounts and classifications in the historical Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  

The Company’s Chapter 11 Cases followed an extended effort by the Company to restructure its business to strengthen its competitive and financial position. However, the Company’s substantial cost disadvantage compared to its larger competitors, most of which have reorganized under the protection of Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, became increasingly untenable given the accelerating impact of global economic uncertainty and resulting revenue instability, volatile and rising fuel prices, and intensifying competitive challenges.  

31  

No assurance can be given as to the value, if any, that may be ascribed to the Debtors’ various pre-petition liabilities and other securities. The Company cannot predict what the ultimate value of any of its securities may be and it remains too early to determine whether holders of any such securities will receive any distribution in the Debtors’ reorganization. In particular, in most cases under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, holders of equity securities receive little or no recovery of value from their investment. Accordingly, the Debtors urge that caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in any of these securities or other Debtor claims. In addition, trading in the Company’s common stock and certain debt securities on the NYSE was suspended on January 5, 2012, and the Company’s common stock and such debt securities were delisted by the Securities and Exchange Commission from the NYSE on January 30, 2012. On January 5, 2012, the Company’s common stock began trading under the symbol “AAMRQ” on the OTCQB marketplace, operated by OTC Markets Group (www.otcmarkets.com).  

General Information  

Notices to Creditors; Effect of Automatic Stay. The Debtors have begun the process of seeking to notify all known current or potential creditors that the Chapter 11 Cases had been filed. Subject to certain exceptions under the Bankruptcy Code, the filing of the Debtors’ Chapter 11 Cases automatically enjoined, or stayed, the continuation of most judicial or administrative proceedings or filing of other actions against the Debtors or their property to recover on, collect or secure a claim arising prior to the Petition Date. Thus, for example, most creditor actions to obtain possession of property from the Debtors, or to create, perfect or enforce any lien against the property of the Debtors, or to collect on monies owed or otherwise exercise rights or remedies with respect to a prepetition claim, are enjoined unless and until the Bankruptcy Court lifts the automatic stay as to any such claim. Vendors are being paid for goods furnished and services provided after the Petition Date in the ordinary course of business.  

Appointment of Creditors’ Committee. On December 5, 2011, the U.S. Trustee for the Southern District of New York, a unit of the Department of Justice, appointed the Creditors’ Committee for the Chapter 11 Cases. The Bankruptcy Code provides for the U.S. Trustee to appoint a statutory committee of creditors holding unsecured claims as soon as practicable after the commencement of a Chapter 11 case. The statutory creditors’ committee ordinarily consists of holders of the seven largest unsecured claims who are willing to serve. A statutory creditors’ committee represents the interests of all unsecured creditors in a bankruptcy case.  

Rejection of Executory Contracts. Under Section 365 and other relevant sections of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors may assume, assume and assign, or reject certain executory contracts and unexpired leases, including, without limitation, agreements relating to aircraft and aircraft engines (collectively, Aircraft Property) and leases of real property, subject to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court and certain other conditions. Under the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors’ rights to assume, assume and assign, or reject unexpired leases of non-residential real estate expire on March 27, 2012 (subject to further extension by the Bankruptcy Court but not to exceed 210 days from the Petition Date). In general, rejection of an executory contract or unexpired lease is treated as a prepetition breach of the executory contract or unexpired lease in question and, subject to certain exceptions, relieves the Debtors from performing their future obligations under such executory contract or unexpired lease but entitles the contract counterparty or lessor to a prepetition general unsecured claim for damages caused by such deemed breach. Counterparties to such rejected contracts or leases have the right to file claims against the Debtors’ estate for such damages. Generally, the assumption of an executory contract or unexpired lease requires the Debtors to cure existing defaults under such executory contract or unexpired lease.  

Any description of an executory contract or unexpired lease elsewhere in this report or reflected in the Notes to the financial statements included herewith, including where applicable the Debtors’ express termination rights or a quantification of their obligations, must be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by, any rights the Debtors or counterparties have under Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code.  

The Debtors expect that liabilities subject to compromise and resolution in the Chapter 11 Cases will arise in the future as a result of damage claims created by the Debtors’ rejection of various executory contracts and unexpired leases. Due to the uncertain nature of many of the potential rejection claims, the magnitude of such claims is not reasonably estimable at this time. Such claims may be material (see “Liabilities Subject to Compromise” in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements).  

32  

Special Protection Applicable to Leases and Secured Financing of Aircraft and Aircraft Equipment. Notwithstanding the general discussion above of the impact of the automatic stay, under Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code, beginning 60 days after filing a petition under Chapter 11, certain secured parties, lessors and conditional sales vendors may have a right to take possession of certain qualifying Aircraft Property that is leased or subject to a security interest or conditional sale contract, unless the Debtors, subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court, agree to perform under the applicable agreement, and cure any defaults as provided in Section 1110 (other than defaults of a kind specified in Section 365(b)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code). Taking such action does not preclude the Debtors from later rejecting the applicable lease or abandoning the Aircraft Property subject to the related security agreement.  

The Debtors may extend the 60-day period by agreement of the relevant financing party, with Bankruptcy Court approval. In the absence of an agreement or cure as described above or such an extension, the financing party may take possession of the Aircraft Property and enforce any of its contractual rights or remedies to sell, lease or otherwise retain or dispose of such equipment.  

The 60-day period under Section 1110 in the Chapter 11 Cases expired on January 27, 2012. In accordance with the Bankruptcy Court’s Order Authorizing the Debtors to (i) Enter into Agreements Under Section 1110(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, (ii) Enter into Stipulations to Extend the Time to Comply with Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code and (iii) File Redacted Section 1110(b) Stipulations, dated December 23, 2011, the Debtors have entered into agreements to extend the automatic stay or agreed to perform and cure defaults under financing agreements with respect to certain aircraft in their fleet and other Aircraft Property. While the Debtors have reached agreements on, or agreements on key aspects of, renegotiated terms with respect to certain of their Aircraft Properties and are continuing to negotiate terms with respect to many of their other Aircraft Property financings, the ultimate outcome of these negotiations cannot be predicted with certainty. To the extent the Debtors are unable to reach definitive agreements with Aircraft Property financing parties, those parties may seek to repossess the subject Aircraft Property. The loss of a significant number of aircraft could result in a material adverse effect on the Debtors’ financial and operating performance.  

In accordance with Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code, as of December 31, 2011, the Company had rejected 24 aircraft leases relating to 20 MD-80 aircraft and four Fokker 100 aircraft. In addition, since December 31, 2011, the Company has rejected an additional 9 aircraft leases and mortgages relating to one MD-80 aircraft, seven Boeing 757-200 aircraft, and one Airbus A300-600R aircraft. In addition, the Company filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court to modify the leases of the Super ATR aircraft. As of February 15, 2012, 21 of the aircraft had been returned to the lessor as allowed under the modified agreement. The remaining 18 aircraft will be returned to the lessor during 2012 and 2013. In January 2012, American entered into agreements under Section 1110(a) of the Bankruptcy Code to retain 350 aircraft, including Boeing 737-800, Boeing 757-200, Boeing 767-300ER, Boeing 777-200ER, Bombardier CRJ-700, and McDonnell Douglas MD-80 aircraft on the terms provided in the related financing documents.  

Magnitude of Potential Claims The Debtors will file with the Bankruptcy Court schedules and statements of financial affairs setting forth, among other things, the assets and liabilities of the Debtors, subject to the assumptions filed in connection therewith. All of the schedules are subject to further amendment or modification.  

Bankruptcy Rule 3003(c)(3) requires the Bankruptcy Court to fix the time within which proofs of claim must be filed in a Chapter 11 case pursuant to section 501 of the Bankruptcy Code. This Bankruptcy Rule also provides that any creditor who asserts a claim against the Debtors that arose prior to the Petition Date and whose claim (i) is not listed on the Debtors’ schedules or (ii) is listed on the schedules as disputed, contingent, or unliquidated, must file a proof of claim. The Bankruptcy Court has not yet established a date and time by which such proofs of claim must be filed.  

Differences between amounts scheduled by the Debtors and claims by creditors will be investigated and resolved in connection with the claims resolution process. In light of the expected number of creditors, the claims resolution process may take considerable time to complete. Accordingly, the ultimate number and amount of allowed claims is not presently known, nor can the ultimate recovery with respect to allowed claims be presently ascertained.  

Collective Bargaining Agreements. The Bankruptcy Code provides a process for the modification and/or rejection of collective bargaining agreements (CBAs). In particular, Section 1113(c) of the Code permits a debtor to reject its CBAs if the debtor satisfies a number of statutorily prescribed substantive and procedural prerequisites and obtains the Bankruptcy Court’s approval to reject the CBAs. The 1113(c) process requires that a debtor must make proposals to its unions to modify existing CBAs based on the most complete and reliable information available at the time the proposals are made. The proposed modifications must be necessary to permit the reorganization of the debtor and must assure that all the affected parties are treated fairly and equitably. The debtor must provide the unions with all information necessary to  

33  

 evaluate the proposals, and meet at reasonable times and confer in good faith with the unions in an effort to reach mutually agreeable modifications to the CBAs. If consensual agreements are not reached, the debtor may file a motion with the Bankruptcy Court requesting approval to reject the CBAs. Rejection of the CBAs is appropriate if the Court finds the debtor’s proposals are necessary for its reorganization, are fair and equitable, and that the unions refused to agree to the proposals without good cause. American commenced the Section 1113(c) process with its unions on February 1, 2012. AMR Eagle intends to commence the Section 1113(c) process with its unions soon.  

Plan of reorganization. The Debtors have the exclusive right for 120 days after the Petition Date to file a plan of reorganization and, if they do so, 60 additional days to obtain necessary acceptances of the plan. The Debtors exclusivity period may be extended by the Court, with good cause, for up to 18 months from the Petition Date. If the Debtors’ exclusivity period lapses, any party in interest may file a plan of reorganization for any of the Debtors. In addition to being voted on by holders of impaired claims and equity interests, a plan of reorganization must satisfy certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code and must be approved, or confirmed, by the Bankruptcy Court in order to become effective. A plan of reorganization has been accepted by holders of claims against and equity interests in the Debtors if (1) at least one-half in number and two-thirds in dollar amount of claims actually voting in each impaired class of claims have voted to accept the plan and (2) at least two-thirds in amount of equity interests actually voting in each impaired class of equity interests has voted to accept the plan.  

Under certain circumstances set forth in Section 1129(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, the Bankruptcy Court may confirm a plan even if such plan has not been accepted by all impaired classes of claims and equity interests. A class of claims or equity interests that does not receive or retain any property under the plan on account of such claims or interests is deemed to have voted to reject the plan. The precise requirements and evidentiary showing for confirming a plan notwithstanding its rejection by one or more impaired classes of claims or equity interests depends upon a number of factors, including the status and seniority of the claims or equity interests in the rejecting class (i.e., secured claims or unsecured claims, subordinated or senior claims, preferred or common stock). Generally, with respect to common stock interests, a plan may be “crammed down” even if the shareowners receive no recovery if the proponent of the plan demonstrates that (1) no class junior to the common stock is receiving or retaining property under the plan and (2) no class of claims or interests senior to the common stock is being paid more than in full.  

The availability and utilization of net operating losses (and utilization of AMT credits) post-emergence is uncertain at this time and will be highly influenced by the composition of restructuring plan alternatives that may be considered and ultimately pursued. On January 27, 2012, the Bankruptcy Court issued a Final Order Establishing Notification Procedures for Substantial Claimholders and Equityholders and Approving Restrictions on Certain Transfers of Interests in the Debtors’ Estates (Docket No. 890], which restricts trading in the Company’s common stock and claims.  

Liabilities Subject to Compromise. The Debtors have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs associated with their reorganization. The amount of these costs, which are being expensed as incurred, are expected to significantly affect the Debtors’ results of operations. Claims related to reorganization items are reflected in liabilities subject to compromise on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011. For additional information, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Further Information For further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Additional information about the Company’s Chapter 11 filing is also available on the Internet at aa.com/restructuring. Court filings and claims information are available at amrcaseinfo.com.  

Business Plan  

On February 1, 2012, we announced the principal terms of a new business plan that is designed to transform the Company and restore it to industry leadership, profitability and growth. The chief components of this business plan include targets of an annual $2 billion in cost savings and $1 billion in revenue enhancement. Management expects that the additional cash flow generated from these improvements will enable us to renew American’s fleet and to invest several hundred million dollars per year in ongoing improvements in products and services to deliver a world-class travel experience for our customers. The improved cash flow is also expected to enable us to become financially stronger in the years after we emerge from the restructuring process.  

We expect that implementing the business plan will require collaboration with the Creditors Committee, various economic stakeholders and union representatives, and in some instances, approval of the Bankruptcy Court. As noted above under “Chapter 11 Proceedings - Overview”, we will be required to seek Bankruptcy Court approval in order to implement any  

34  

 action that we take in connection with the business plan that is out of the ordinary course of business. We intend to utilize the Chapter 11 restructuring process to realize additional savings over the next six years by restructuring debt, leases and certain other agreements, grounding older planes, improving supplier contract terms and undertaking other initiatives.  

The business plan has been designed to build on initiatives already in place that reduced costs over the past several years, including major changes in American’s route structure, network, capacity and fleet. Our business plan contemplates significant reductions in both non-labor and labor costs, including reducing headcount by approximately 13,000, outsourcing a portion of American’s aircraft maintenance work (including seeking the closure of our Fort Worth Alliance Airport maintenance base) and certain airport fleet service clerk work, terminating American’s defined benefits pension plans, and discontinuing our subsidized retiree medical coverage for current employees. Many of our competitors took similar actions when they went through the bankruptcy process. We hope to implement these cost reductions and other changes consensually; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. In certain circumstances described under “Chapter 11 Proceedings – Overview” above, we may be able, by complying with various provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and with Bankruptcy Court approval, to reject executory contracts and unexpired leases, collective bargaining agreements and financing agreements with respect to American’s Aircraft Property.  

Our business plan also targets approximately $1 billion in annual revenue enhancements by 2017 by renewing and optimizing American’s fleet, building network scale and alliances, and modernizing American’s brand, products and services. With the aircraft commitments discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, we anticipate that American’s mainline jet fleet will be the youngest in North America by 2017. This new fleet would provide more profitable flying due to markedly improved fuel and maintenance costs and enhanced versatility to better match aircraft size to the markets American serves. We intend to build network scale and alliances by increasing departures across American’s five key markets – Dallas/Fort Worth, Chicago, Miami, Los Angeles and New York – by approximately 20% over the next five years and by increasing international flying. Finally, we plan to invest several hundred million dollars annually to enhance the customer experience and attract high-value customers.  

Additionally, to ensure that employee performance is rewarded and aligned with successful operations after we emerge from the Chapter 11 process, we envision putting into place a profit sharing plan which, beginning with the first dollar of pre-tax income, would pay awards totaling 15% of all pre-tax income.  

Our business plan, as noted above, will require collaboration with the Creditors Committee, various economic stakeholders and union representatives, and in some instances, approval of the Bankruptcy Court. We cannot at this point predict whether discussions with these groups will be successful or whether the Creditors Committee or others will support our positions regarding the elements of the business plan. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to implement the business plan successfully and return the Company to profitability.  

Other Recent Events  

Aircraft Agreements  

American entered into agreements in July 2011 with Airbus and Boeing under which it plans to acquire 460 narrowbody aircraft from the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320 families during the period 2013-2022. The Bankruptcy Court has not approved American’s assumption of the Boeing and Airbus contracts, but has approved certain procedures to allow American to continue taking delivery of Boeing 737 and Boeing 777 aircraft for the remainder of 2012, subject to objection by the Creditors’ Committee, and subject to certain limitations. If assumed, these agreements will allow American to replace and transform its narrowbody fleet over five years and solidify its fleet plan into the next decade. These new aircraft will allow American to reduce its operating and fuel costs and deliver state-of-the-art amenities to customers, while maximizing financial flexibility for American. American also has purchase rights and options through 2025 for an additional 465 aircraft from these families. If assumption of these agreements is requested by the Company and approved by the Bankruptcy Court, starting in 2017, American expects to become the first network U.S. airline to begin taking delivery of “next generation” Airbus and Boeing narrowbody aircraft that will further accelerate fuel-efficiency gains. These new deliveries would pave the way for American to have the youngest and most fuel-efficient fleet among its U.S. airline peers in approximately five years.  

If assumption of these agreements is requested by the Company and approved by the Bankruptcy Court, these firm aircraft commitments would be scheduled for delivery as follows: 2013 – 40 aircraft, 2014 – 55 aircraft, 2015 – 50 aircraft, 2016 – 45 aircraft, 2017 – 50 aircraft, 2018 and beyond – 120 aircraft. The manufacturers have committed financing to American of $13 billion through lease transactions, which covers the first 100 Boeing deliveries and first 130 Airbus deliveries.  

35  

Further, in July 2011, American entered into a sale-leaseback arrangement with a leasing company to finance 35 Boeing 737-800 aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2011 through 2014, subject to certain terms and conditions. During 2011, American financed 13 Boeing 737-800 aircraft under this and other arrangements, which are accounted for as operating leases.  

The Company cannot predict the impact, if any, that the Chapter 11 Cases might have on these agreements.  

In connection with these Boeing and Airbus aircraft agreements and the Company’s anticipated acceleration of its fleet renewal and replacement plan, the Company evaluated the useful lives of certain fleets including McDonnell Douglas MD-80, Boeing 757 and Boeing 767 aircraft. Upon finalization of the fleet plan in the fourth quarter of 2011 (prior to the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases), the Company concluded that a triggering event had occurred, requiring that certain assets be tested for impairment. As a result of this test, the Company concluded the carrying value of Boeing 757 aircraft used in its domestic markets was no longer recoverable. Consequently, the 2011 results include an impairment charge of $713 million to write these and certain related long-lived assets down to their estimated fair values. The impairment charge is non-cash.  

AMR Eagle Divestiture  

On August 11, 2011, AMR Eagle filed a Form 10 registration statement (subsequently amended on September 26, 2011 and October 6, 2011) with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with a potential spin-off of AMR Eagle.  

As contemplated by the Form 10, on August 31, 2011, American entered into a Master Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Eagle and Executive under which Eagle sold to American 47 CRJ-700 Jet Aircraft and 216 Embraer 135, 140 and 145 Jet Aircraft, including the engines installed on each such aircraft and other related assets (each, a Jet Aircraft). In addition, American purchased from Eagle and Executive certain specified fixed assets, generally consisting of equipment and leasehold improvements owned by Eagle or Executive and used in connection with the regional flight operations conducted by Eagle and Executive on American’s behalf and the ground handling operations of Eagle and Executive (collectively, the Other Assets).  

Each Jet Aircraft was purchased by American on the date of delivery of such aircraft to American, and the Other Assets was purchased by American ten days after delivery of the last Jet Aircraft to American, or November 27, 2011. Delivery of the Jet Aircraft began on August 31, 2011, and the last Jet Aircraft was delivered on November 17, 2011. Following the delivery of each Jet Aircraft, American has leased the Jet Aircraft to Eagle, and Eagle continues to provide certain regional flight operations to American.  

American has taken each Jet Aircraft subject to, and Eagle has been released from, all outstanding indebtedness relating to such Jet Aircraft. The indebtedness related to the Jet Aircraft consists of individual notes for each Jet Aircraft. The notes are secured by the related Jet Aircraft and certain other assets, have either fixed or floating interest rates and mature over various periods through 2023. As of December 31, 2011, the fixed rate notes had effective interest rates ranging from 4.25% to 7.50% and the floating rate notes had effective interest rates ranging from 2.247% to 3.261%. The notes include customary terms and conditions, including customary events of default and certain cross-default provisions.  

As of the end of 2011, the net book value of such transferred Jet Aircraft was $2.3 billion, and the aggregate outstanding indebtedness (net of discount) associated with such transferred Jet Aircraft was $2.1 billion, including liabilities classified as not subject to compromise and liabilities classified as subject to compromise.  

As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, AMR’s planned divestiture of AMR Eagle has been placed on hold, pending the outcome of the restructuring.  

Alliance and Joint Business Agreements  

American continued to grow its global network throughout 2011, adding more than 30 new destinations through relationships with airlines around the globe, including JAL and Qantas. In 2010, American and JAL entered into a JBA to enhance their scope of cooperation on routes between North America and Asia through adjustments to their respective networks, flight schedules, and other business activities. The carriers also received antitrust immunity (ATI) approval on these routes from the DOT and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport, and Tourism of Japan and began implementing the JBA on April 1, 2011. The JBA provides for expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas. American and JAL entered into a Revenue Sharing Agreement, effective April 1,  

36  

 2011, as envisaged by the JBA. Under this agreement, American and JAL share certain revenues of their operations. In addition, American provided JAL a guarantee of certain minimum incremental revenue resulting from the successful operation of the joint business for the first three years following its implementation, subject to certain terms and conditions. The amount required to be paid by the Company under the guarantee in any one of such years may not exceed $100 million, and is reduced if capacity for one of such years is less than a defined base year period capacity. Based on current Trans-Pacific capacity, the guarantee in any one of such years may not exceed approximately $75 million. As of December 31, 2011, based on an expected probability model, American had recorded a guarantee liability that is not material. On November 10, 2011, American received formal government approval of its joint business with Qantas, which will allow the carriers to coordinate services between the United States, Australia and New Zealand.  

GDS Discussion  

Over the past several years, American has been developing a direct connection technology, designed to distribute its fare content and bookings capability directly to travel agents in order to achieve greater efficiencies, cost savings, and technological advances in the distribution of our services. Historically, approximately 60% of American’s bookings are booked through travel agencies, which typically use one or more global distribution systems, or “GDSs”, to view fare content from American and other industry participants. American is currently in litigation with two of the GDSs, Sabre and Travelport, and with Orbitz, a large online travel agency that is affiliated with Travelport. In that litigation, American alleges, among other things, that the one or more of the defendants (1) engaged in anticompetitive business practices to preserve GDS monopoly power in the distribution of airlines services through travel agencies; (2) conspired with each other to preserve the existing GDS business model; (3) engaged in numerous actions intended to punish American for supporting a competitive alternative to the GDSs, including biasing displays against American’s services and imposed large price increases, (4) organized, supported, and monitored a boycott of American services among travel agencies; and (5) interfered with American’s contractual relationships, including an obligation owed by Orbitz to cooperatively work with American to receive American’s content through a direct connect.  

On November 1, 2010, after Orbitz refused to receive American’s content through American’s newest version of direct connect, American notified Orbitz that it intended to terminate its contracts and agency relationship. On November 5, 2010, Travelport, the GDS used by Orbitz, filed a lawsuit against American seeking a ruling that a notice of termination delivered by American to Orbitz breached American’s content distribution agreement with Travelport, and Travelport subsequently obtained a preliminary injunction which precluded American from terminating its relationship with Orbitz prior to September 1, 2011. On December 3, 2010, Travelport doubled the booking fees it charges American for some international point-of-sale bookings through Travelport, and made it more difficult for travel agents to find American’s fares on the Travelport system display. We believe these actions violate our agreement with Travelport. In response, American filed counterclaims against Travelport for breach of contract, and announced that it would charge travel agencies for bookings through Travelport in an effort to offset the booking fee increase. That surcharge was never implemented. American and Travelport subsequently entered into a short term extension of its agreement, which also provides that neither American nor Orbitz will terminate their agency relationship during the term of this short term extension. There can be no assurance that we will ultimately prevail in the lawsuit filed by Travelport or on our counterclaims, or that American, Travelport, and Orbitz will enter into acceptable long term agreements The litigation initiated by Travelport in response to American’s decision to terminate Orbitz is currently stayed as a result of the Chapter 11 filing. We will vigorously pursue our counterclaims and rights in the litigation.  

On January 1, 2011, Expedia discontinued selling American tickets on its website. Prior to that date, approximately 5.4% of American’s passenger revenue, on an annualized basis, was booked through Expedia. On April 4, 2011, American and Expedia entered into a new agreement which returned American’s fares to Expedia’s web site, and Expedia agreed to transition its American bookings from to American’s direct connect via integration services provided by a GDS.  

In late 2010, and in direct response to the perceived threat of American’s direct connect, Sabre began biasing its display against American. On January 5, 2011, Sabre instituted pervasive and massive bias against American throughout it system, making it substantially more difficult for travel agents to find American’s fares on the Sabre system display. Sabre also doubled the fees it charges American for bookings through its GDS, and purported to terminate its agreement with American, effective July 2011. Sabre alleges that our contract allowed it to take these actions in response to statements that American made in the press concerning our direct connection technology. Sabre is the largest non-direct source of American’s bookings. In 2010, over $7 billion of American’s passenger revenues were generated from bookings made through the Sabre GDS. In response to Sabre’s actions, on January 10, 2011, American filed a lawsuit against Sabre in Texas state court on several grounds. The court temporarily enjoined Sabre from “biasing” or making it more difficult to find American’s fares on the Sabre GDS, and set a preliminary injunction hearing for February 14, 2011. On January 23, 2011,  

37  

 American and Sabre entered into a Stand Down Agreement that suspended the litigation until June 1, 2011 and vacated the February 14 hearing date. During this period, Sabre agreed (1) not to take any actions to bias the display of American’s services; (2) to return to the pricing in effect on January 4, 2011; and (3) withdraw its notice of termination of certain parts of the agreement. Following the expiration of this Stand Down agreement, American filed new antitrust claims in both federal and Texas state courts, and Sabre has filed breach of contract and antitrust claims against American. On August 29, 2011, Sabre and American entered into an agreement that extended their agreement, subject to certain pricing and other adjustments, during the period in which American’s Texas state court claims are pending. That case is currently set to go to trial on August 6, 2012.  

While we believe that some of the bookings through Orbitz, Travelport, and Sabre have transitioned or will transition to other distribution channels, such as other travel agencies, metasearch sites and American’s AA.com web site, it is not possible at this time to estimate what the ultimate impact would be to our business if we are unsuccessful in resolving one or more of these matters. If as a result of these matters it becomes more difficult for our customers to find and book flights on American, we could be put at a competitive disadvantage against our competitors and this may result in lower bookings. If we are unable to sell American inventory through any or all of these channels, our level of bookings, business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We also believe the actions taken by Travelport and Sabre described above are not permitted by the applicable contracts. We intend to vigorously pursue our claims and defenses in the lawsuits described above, but there can be no assurance of the outcome of any such lawsuit.  

Contingencies  

The Company has certain contingencies resulting from litigation and claims incident to the ordinary course of business. Management believes, after considering a number of factors, including (but not limited to) the information currently available, the views of legal counsel, the nature of contingencies to which the Company is subject and prior experience, that the ultimate disposition of the litigation (except as noted in “Legal Proceedings” in item 3) and claims will not materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. When appropriate, the Company accrues for these contingencies based on its assessments of the likely outcomes of the related matters. The amounts of these contingencies could increase or decrease in the near term, based on revisions to those assessments.  

The Company files its tax returns as prescribed by the tax laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Company’s 2004 through 2009 tax years are still subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service. Various state and foreign jurisdiction tax years remain open to examination, and the Company is under examination, in administrative appeals, or engaged in tax litigation in certain jurisdictions. See Income Taxes under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under Item 7.  

As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, virtually all pre-petition pending litigation against the Company is stayed. However, the Company has entered into a stipulation with Sabre to permit the Sabre related litigation to proceed.  

38  

Financial Highlights  

The Company recorded a consolidated net loss of $2.0 billion in 2011 compared to a net loss of $471 million in 2010. The Company’s consolidated net loss reflects significant year-over-year increases in fuel prices, partially offset by higher operating revenues. Consolidated passenger revenue increased by $1.6 billion to $20.7 billion in 2011 compared to the prior year. Cargo and other revenues increased by $225 million to $3.3 billion for 2011 compared to the prior year. Mainline passenger unit revenues increased 6.3 percent in 2011 due to a 6.2 percent increase in passenger yield year-over-year. This also reflects an increase in load factor of approximately 0.1 points compared to 2010.  

The increase in total operating revenue was offset by significantly higher year-over-year fuel prices. Fuel prices increased significantly through the second quarter and remained high and extremely volatile through year-end. The Company paid an average of $3.01 per gallon in 2011 compared to an average of $2.32 per gallon in 2010, including the effects of hedging. As a result, fuel expense, taking into account the impact of fuel hedging, increased $1.9 billion year-over-year to $8.3 billion. Hedging gains reduced fuel expense by approximately $335 million.  

In addition, the Company’s 2011 results were negatively impacted by the following items:  

   •    In the first quarter of 2011, the Company incurred approximately $31 million in non-recurring non-cash charges related to certain sale/leaseback transactions.  

   •    Also in the first quarter of 2011, several events transpired which adversely impacted system operations, including extreme weather events in January and February, a catastrophic earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and a fire at Miami International Airport that adversely affected American’s aircraft fueling capabilities at the airport. These events, combined with the effect of the Company’s efforts to improve distribution of the Company’s products (as described under the GDS discussion above), resulted in reduced revenue in the first quarter.  

   •    The Company’s second quarter revenue results reflected approximately $60 million in lower revenue due to the extreme weather events during the quarter in Dallas-Fort Worth and the continued impact of the earthquake that struck Japan in March 2011.  

   •    In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Debtors recognized $118 million in reorganization items related to expenses (including professional fees) and provisions for losses that are realized or incurred in the Chapter 11 Cases.  

   •    Also in the fourth quarter of 2011, restructuring charges and special items consisted of $768 million, including $725 million related to the impairment of certain aircraft and gates and a $43 million revenue reduction as a result of a decrease in the breakage assumption related to the AAdvantage frequent flier liability.  

   •    The Company reduced capacity by approximately 3% in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to the uncertain economic environment, high fuel costs, and higher than normal pilot retirements. As a result, the Company’s results were adversely impacted by approximately $55 million in the quarter.  

The Company recorded a net loss of $471 million in 2010 compared to a net loss of $1.5 billion in 2009. The Company’s smaller net loss in 2010 reflected a strengthening of the revenue environment in a weak global economy which led to higher passenger revenues, partially offset by higher fuel prices. In addition to higher fuel expenses, the Company’s 2010 results were negatively impacted by $81 million in special items. The special items consisted of $53 million related to the Venezuelan currency remeasurement in January 2010 and a $28 million non-cash impairment of certain routes in Latin America.  

The Company recorded a net loss of $1.5 billion in 2009 compared to a net loss of $2.1 billion in 2008. The Company’s 2009 loss was primarily attributable to a significant decrease in passenger revenue due to lower traffic and passenger yield. The 2009 results were also negatively impacted by a net amount of $107 million in special items, restructuring charges and a non-cash tax item. 2009 special items of $184 million included the impairment of certain route and slot authorities, primarily in Latin America, and losses on certain sale leaseback transactions. Restructuring charges for 2009 were $171 million and related to announced capacity reductions, including the grounding of the Airbus A300 fleet and the impairment of certain Embraer RJ-135 aircraft. Also included in 2009 results is a $248 million non-cash tax benefit resulting from the allocation of the tax expense to other comprehensive income items recognized during 2009. The 2009 restructuring charges, the 2009 non-cash tax item and the 2010 and 2009 route impairments are described in Notes 3, 9 and 12, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements.  

39  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

The matters described herein, to the extent that they relate to future events or expectations, may be significantly affected by the Chapter 11 Cases. Those proceedings will involve, or may result in, various restrictions on our activities, limitations on financing, the need to obtain Bankruptcy Court and Creditors’ Committee approval for various matters and uncertainty as to relationships with vendors, suppliers, customers, labor and others whom we may conduct or seek to conduct business. The Debtors cannot predict the impact, if any, that its Chapter 11 Cases might have on these obligations. For further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Cash, Short-Term Investments and Restricted Assets  

At December 31, 2011, the Company had $4.0 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments and $738 million in restricted cash and short-term investments, both at fair value, versus $4.5 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments and $450 million in restricted cash and short-term investments at December 31, 2010.  

The Company’s unrestricted short-term investment portfolio consists of a variety of what the Company believes are highly liquid, lower risk instruments including money market funds, government agency investments, repurchase agreements, short-term obligations, corporate obligations, bank notes, certificates of deposit and time deposits. AMR’s objectives for its investment portfolio are (1) the safety of principal, (2) liquidity maintenance, (3) yield maximization, and (4) the full investment of all available funds. The Company’s risk management policy further emphasizes superior credit quality (primarily based on short-term ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations) in selecting and maintaining investments in its portfolio and enforces limits on the proportion of funds invested with one issuer, one industry, or one type of instrument. The Company regularly assesses the market risks of its portfolio, and believes that its established policies and business practices adequately limit those risks. As a result, the Company does not anticipate any material adverse impact from these risks.  

Significant Indebtedness and Future Financing  

Indebtedness is a significant risk to the Company as discussed more fully in the Risk Factors included under Item 1A.  

The Chapter 11 petitions triggered defaults on substantially all debt obligations of the Debtors. However, under Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code, the commencement of a Chapter 11 case automatically stays most creditor actions against the Debtors’ estates.  

On January 25, 2011, American closed on a $657 million offering of Class A and Class B Pass Through Trust Certificates, Series 2011-1 (the 2011-1 Certificates). The equipment notes held by each pass through trust were issued for each of (a) 15 Boeing 737-823 aircraft delivered new to American from 1999 to 2001, (b) six Boeing 757-223 aircraft delivered new to American in 1999 and 2001, (c) two Boeing 767-323ER aircraft delivered new to American in 1999 and (d) seven Boeing 777-223ER aircraft delivered new to American from 1999 to 2000. Interest of 5.25% and 7.00% per annum on the issued and outstanding Series A equipment notes and Series B equipment notes, respectively, will be payable semiannually on January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing on July 31, 2011, and principal on such equipment notes is scheduled for payment on January 31 and July 31 of certain years, commencing on July 31, 2011. The payment obligations of American under the equipment notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by AMR. All proceeds from the sale of the Series 2011-1 Certificates have been received by American.  

In March 2011, American issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes due 2016 (the Senior Secured Notes) guaranteed by the Company. The Senior Secured Notes bear interest at a rate of 7.50% per annum, payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2011. As is customary for financings of this nature, the indebtedness evidenced by the Senior Secured Notes may be accelerated upon the occurrence of events of default under the related indenture. The Senior Secured Notes are senior secured obligations of American and are unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured basis by the Company. Subject to certain limitations and exceptions, the Senior Secured Notes are secured by certain route authorities, airport landing and takeoff slots, and rights to use or occupy space in airport terminals, in each case that American uses to operate non-stop services between certain airports in the United States and London’s Heathrow Airport, and between certain airports in the United States and certain airports in Japan and China.  

40  

American, at its option, may redeem some or all of the Senior Secured Notes at any time on or after March 15, 2013, at specified redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, at any time prior to March 15, 2013, American, at its option, may redeem some or all of the Senior Secured Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus a “make-whole” premium and accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, at any time prior to March 15, 2014, American, at its option, may redeem (1) up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Secured Notes with the proceeds of certain equity offerings at a redemption price of 107.5% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and (2) during any 12-month period, up to 10% of the original aggregate principal amount of the Senior Secured Notes at a redemption price of 103% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. If American sells certain assets or if a “change of control” (as defined in the indenture) occurs, American must offer to repurchase the Senior Secured Notes at prices specified in the indenture.  

The indenture for the Senior Secured Notes includes covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to merge, consolidate, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness, issue preferred stock, make investments and pay dividends. In addition, if American fails to maintain a collateral ratio of 1.5 to 1.0, American must pay additional interest on the notes at the rate of 2% per annum until the collateral coverage ratio equals at least 1.5 to 1.0.  

On October 4, 2011, American closed on a $726 million offering of Class A Pass Through Trust Certificates, Series 2011-2 (the 2011-2 Certificates). Subsequent to the closing, the equipment notes held by each pass through trust were issued for each of (a) 14 Boeing 737-823 aircraft delivered new to American from 1999 to 2001 and 2 Boeing 737-823 aircraft delivered new to American in 2009, (b) 14 Boeing 757-223 aircraft delivered new to American in 1999 and 2001 and (c) 13 Boeing 777-223ER aircraft delivered new to American in 2001. Interest of 8.625% per annum on the issued and outstanding 2011-2 Certificates will be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 2012, and principal on such equipment notes is scheduled for payment on April 15 and October 15 of certain years, commencing on April 15, 2012. The payment obligations of American under the equipment notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by AMR. All proceeds from the sale of the Series 2011-2 Certificates have been received by American.  

Further, in July 2011, American entered into a sale-leaseback arrangement with a leasing company to finance 35 Boeing 737-800 aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2011 through 2014, subject to certain terms and conditions. During 2011, American financed 13 Boeing 737-800 aircraft under this and other arrangements, which are accounted for as operating leases.  

The Company has financing commitments covering all of the aircraft scheduled to be delivered between 2011 and 2016, except 16 widebody aircraft that it intends to finance at a later time.  

In 2012, including liabilities subject to compromise, the Company will be contractually required to make approximately $1.8 billion of principal payments on long-term debt and approximately $167 million in principal payments on capital leases, and the Company expects to spend approximately $1.6 billion on capital expenditures, including aircraft commitments.  

As discussed above under “Item 7 – Chapter 11 Proceedings”, we intend to use the benefits afforded by the Bankruptcy Code to restructure the terms of much of our indebtedness. It is still early in our Chapter 11 Cases, and we cannot predict at this time the outcome of our efforts to restructure our indebtedness. It is possible that holders of our unsecured indebtedness may lose all of a substantial portion of their investment in our unsecured indebtedness upon the implementation of any plan of reorganization that is ultimately accepted by the requisite majority of creditors and approved by the Bankruptcy Court.  

See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for a schedule of the Company’s aircraft commitments and payments.  

Credit Ratings  

AMR’s and American’s credit ratings are significantly below investment grade. The outcome of the Chapter 11 proceedings, which cannot be determined at this time, could further increase the Company’s borrowing or other costs and further restrict the availability of future financing.  

Credit Card Processing and Other Reserves  

American has agreements with a number of credit card companies and processors to accept credit cards for the sale of air travel and other services. Under certain of these agreements, the credit card processor may hold back a reserve from American’s credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including the failure of American to maintain certain levels of liquidity (as specified in each agreement).  

41  

Under such agreements, the amount of the reserve that may be required generally is based on the processor’s exposure to the Company under the applicable agreement and, in the case a reserve is required because of AMR’s failure to maintain a certain level of liquidity, the amount of such liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. If circumstances were to occur that would allow the credit card processor to require the Company to maintain a reserve, the Company’s liquidity would be negatively impacted.  

Cash Flow Activity  

The Company’s cash flow from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2011 generated $680 million, which is a decrease of $561 million from the same period in 2010 primarily due to increases in operating expenses related to fuel costs in 2011.  

The Company made debt and capital lease payments of $2.5 billion in 2011 while capital expenditures during 2011 were $1.6 billion and primarily related to new aircraft acquisitions and aircraft modifications. Substantially all of the newly acquired aircraft were financed through previously arranged financing transactions.  

Due to the current value of the Company’s derivative contracts, some agreements with counterparties require collateral to be deposited by the counterparty. As of December 31, 2011, the cash collateral held by AMR from such counterparties was $0.5 million as compared to $73 million at December 31, 2010. Cash held at December 31, 2011 from counterparties is included in short-term investments. As a result of movements in fuel prices, the cash collateral amounts held by AMR or the counterparties to such contracts, as the case may be, can vary significantly.  

As a result of the Terrorist Attacks and the subsequent liability protections provided for by the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, the Company recorded a liability for the Terrorist Attacks claims equal to the related insurance receivable due to American. In the second quarter of 2011, the Company received $576 million in insurance proceeds as partial settlement of claims related to the Terrorist Attacks. The Company used these funds to pay a portion of its share of the associated liability. Reflecting this settlement, the remaining liability, and the amount of the offsetting insurance receivable as of December 31, 2011, were each $1.1 billion.  

Certain of the Company’s debt financing agreements contain loan to value ratio covenants and require the Company to periodically appraise the collateral. Pursuant to such agreements, if the loan to value ratio exceeds a specified threshold, the Company may be required to subject additional qualifying collateral (which in some cases may include cash collateral) or, in the alternative, to pay down such financing, in whole or in part, with premium (if any).  

Compensation On January 17, 2012, the Company approved the 2012 Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) for American. All U.S. based people of American are eligible to participate in the AIP. The AIP is American’s annual bonus plan and provides for the payment of awards in the event certain financial and/or customer service metrics are satisfied.  

Working Capital AMR (principally American) historically operates with a working capital deficit. In addition, the Company has historically relied heavily on external financing to fund capital expenditures. More recently, the Company has also relied on external financing to fund operating losses, employee pension obligations and debt maturities.  

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements American has determined that it holds a significant variable interest in, but is not the primary beneficiary of, certain trusts that are the lessors under 70 of its aircraft operating leases. These leases contain a fixed price purchase option, which allows American to purchase the aircraft at a predetermined price on a specified date. However, American does not guarantee the residual value of the aircraft. As of December 31, 2011, future lease payments required under these leases totaled $794 million.  

Certain special facility revenue bonds have been issued by certain municipalities primarily to purchase equipment and improve airport facilities that are leased by American and accounted for as operating leases. Approximately $1.5 billion of these bonds (with total future payments of approximately $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2011) are guaranteed by American, AMR, or both. Approximately $177 million of these special facility revenue bonds contain mandatory tender provisions that require American to make operating lease payments sufficient to repurchase the bonds at various times: $112 million in 2014 and $65 million in 2015. Although American has the right to remarket the bonds, there can be no assurance that these bonds will be successfully remarketed. Any payments to redeem or purchase bonds that are not remarketed would generally reduce existing rent leveling accruals or are considered prepaid facility rentals and would reduce future operating lease commitments.  

42  

In addition, the Company had other operating leases, primarily for aircraft and airport facilities, with total future lease payments of $6.8 billion as of December 31, 2011. Entering into aircraft leases allows the Company to obtain aircraft without immediate cash outflows.  

In general, the Debtors have not determined whether to assume, assume and assign, or reject the bulk of their operating leases, as permitted by the Bankruptcy Code. Any such determination would be subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court.  

43  

Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes the Company’s obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2011. The Debtors are in the process of evaluating their executory contracts in order to determine which contracts will be assumed, assumed and assigned, or rejected in their Chapter 11 Cases. Therefore, obligations as currently quantified in the table below and in the text immediately following the footnotes to the table will continue to change. The table below does not include contracts that have been successfully rejected through the Chapter 11 Cases. The table also does not include commitments that are contingent on events or other factors that are uncertain or unknown at this time.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   1.  Certain special facility revenue bonds issued by municipalities—which are supported by operating leases executed by American—are guaranteed by AMR and/or American. The special facility revenue bonds with mandatory tender provisions discussed above are included in this table based on lease payment terms rather than their mandatory tender provision date. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.    

   2.  Additional information about the Company’s obligations is included in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.    

   3.  The table reflects minimum required payments under the capacity purchase agreement between American and a regional airline, Chautauqua Airlines, Inc. (Chautauqua). If the Company terminates its contract with Chautauqua without cause, Chautauqua has the right to put its 15 Embraer aircraft to the Company. If this were to happen, the Company would take possession of the aircraft and become liable for lease obligations totaling approximately $21 million per year with lease expirations in 2018 and 2019. These lease obligations are not included in the table above. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.    

   4.  Amounts represent contractual amounts due, including interest. Interest on variable rate debt was estimated based on the current rate at December 31, 2011.    

   5.  Includes noncancelable commitments to purchase goods or services, primarily information technology related support. The Company has made estimates as to the timing of certain payments primarily for construction related costs. The actual timing of payments may vary from these estimates. Substantially all of the Company’s purchase orders issued for other purchases in the ordinary course of business contain a 30-day cancellation clause that allows the Company to cancel an order with 30 days notice.    

   6.  Includes minimum pension contributions based on actuarially determined estimates and other postretirement benefit payments based on estimated payments through 2021. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.    

44  

   7.  Total contractual obligations do not include long-term contracts that represent a variable expense (based on levels of operation) or where short-term cancellation provisions exist.    

Although the Debtors are not generally permitted to make any payments on pre-petition obligations as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Debtors have made 1110(a) Elections or reached agreements with certain aircraft financing parties under section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code and received approval from the Bankruptcy Court to make certain payments on financings of certain aircraft.  

The Debtors cannot predict the impact, if any, that the Chapter 11 Cases might have on these obligations. For further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases, see Note 1 and Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements and the information contained in Item 7 “Chapter 11 Proceedings” above.  

45  

Results of Operations  

Revenues  

2011 Compared to 2010 The Company’s revenues increased approximately $1.8 billion, or 8.2 percent, to $24.0 billion in 2011 compared to 2010. American’s passenger revenues increased by 7.1 percent, or $1.2 billion, on a 0.7 percent increase in capacity (available seat mile) (ASM). The Company’s 2011 passenger revenues reflect a $43 million reduction as a result of a decrease in the breakage assumption related to the AAdvantage frequent flier liability. American’s passenger load factor increased 0.1 points while passenger yield increased by 6.2 percent to 14.19 cents. This resulted in an increase in passenger revenue per available seat mile (RASM) of 6.3 percent to 11.63 cents. American derived approximately 60 percent of its passenger revenues from domestic operations and approximately 40 percent from international operations (flights serving international destinations). Following is additional information regarding American’s domestic and international RASM and capacity:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Regional Affiliates’ passenger revenues, which are based on industry standard proration agreements for flights connecting to American flights, increased $397 million, or 17.1 percent, to $2.7 billion as a result of higher yield and increased traffic. Regional Affiliates’ traffic increased 12.3 percent to 9.9 billion revenue passenger miles (RPMs), on a capacity increase of 10.9 percent to 13.5 billion ASMs, resulting in a 0.9 point increase in passenger load factor to 73.3 percent. 

Cargo revenues increased 4.5 percent, or $31 million, to $703 million primarily as a result of increased freight yields.  

Other revenues increased 8.1 percent, or $195 million, to $2.6 billion primarily due to increased revenue associated with the sale of mileage credits in the AAdvantage frequent flyer program and increases in certain passenger service charge volumes and fees.  

46  

2010 Compared to 2009 The Company’s revenues increased approximately $2.3 billion, or 11.3 percent, to $22.2 billion in 2010 compared to 2009 due to increased traffic and higher average fares. American’s passenger revenues increased by 11.5 percent, or $1.7 billion, on a capacity (ASM) increase of 1.0 percent. American’s passenger load factor increased approximately 1.2 points to 81.9 percent and passenger revenue yield per passenger mile increased 8.7 percent to 13.36 cents. This resulted in an increase in RASM of 10.4 percent to 10.94 cents. In 2010, American derived approximately 60 percent of its passenger revenues from domestic operations and approximately 40 percent from international operations (flights serving international destinations). Following is additional information regarding American’s domestic and international RASM and capacity:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Regional Affiliates’ passenger revenues, which are based on industry standard proration agreements for flights connecting to American flights, increased $315 million or 15.7 percent as a result of passenger yield increase of 8.4 percent. Regional Affiliates’ traffic increased 6.7 percent to 8.8 billion RPMs, while capacity increased 5.3 percent to 12.2 billion ASMs, resulting in a 1.0 point increase in passenger load factor to 72.4 percent.  

Cargo revenues increased 16.3 percent, or $94 million, primarily as a result of increased volume, particularly in the Latin America and Pacific regions.  

Other revenues increased 5.3 percent, or $121 million, to $2.4 billion due to increases in certain passenger service charge volumes and fees and increased revenue associated with the sale of mileage credits in the AAdvantage frequent flyer program.  

47  

Operating Expenses  

2011 Compared to 2010 The Company’s total operating expenses increased 14.5 percent, or $3.2 billion, to $25.0 billion in 2011 compared to 2010. American’s mainline operating expenses per ASM increased 13.4 percent to 14.30 cents. The increase in operating expense was largely due to a year-over-year increase in fuel prices in 2011 compared to 2010 and $725 million related to the impairment of certain aircraft and gates in 2011. Fuel expense was the Company’s largest single expense category in 2011 and the price increase resulted in $1.9 billion in incremental year-over-year fuel expense in 2011 (based on the year-over-year increase in the average price per gallon multiplied by gallons consumed, inclusive of the impact of fuel hedging). Further increases in fuel prices and/or disruptions in the supply of fuel would further materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The remaining increase in operating expense was primarily due to labor related costs, revenue related expenses, such as credit card fees and booking fees and commissions, and increased aircraft rent related to the Company’s fleet renewal plan.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)  Aircraft fuel expense increased primarily due to a 30.1 percent increase in the Company’s price per gallon of fuel (net of the impact of hedging gains of $335 million).    

   (b)  Commissions, booking fees and credit card expenses increased due to an 8.2 percent increase in operating revenues.    

   (c)  Aircraft rental expense increased primarily due to new aircraft deliveries in 2011 and 2010.    

   (d)  Food service expense increased primarily due to increased international flying.    

   (e)  Special charges in 2011 consist of $725 million related to the impairment of certain aircraft and gates.    

   (f)  Other operating expenses increased primarily due to increases in professional and technical fees and sale leaseback losses.    

48  

2010 Compared to 2009 The Company’s total operating expenses increased 4.5 percent, or $941 million, to $21.9 billion in 2010 compared to 2009. American’s mainline operating expenses per ASM in 2010 increased 3.2 percent compared to 2009 to 12.62 cents. The increase in operating expense was largely due to a year-over-year increase in fuel prices from $2.01 per gallon in 2009 to $2.32 per gallon in 2010, including the impact of fuel hedging. Fuel expense was the Company’s second largest single expense category in 2010 and the price increase resulted in $847 million in incremental year-over-year fuel expense in 2010 (based on the year-over-year increase in the average price per gallon multiplied by gallons consumed, inclusive of the impact of fuel hedging). The remaining increase in operating expense was primarily due to revenue related expenses, such as credit card fees and booking fees and commissions, and increased aircraft rent related to the Company’s fleet renewal plan.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   *  Not meaningful    

   (a)  Aircraft fuel expense increased primarily due to a 15.2 percent increase in the Company’s price per gallon of fuel (net of the impact of hedging losses of $142 million).    

   (b)  Commissions, booking fees and credit card expenses increased due to an 11.3 percent increase in operating revenues.    

   (c)  Aircraft rental expense increased principally due to new aircraft deliveries in 2009 and 2010.    

   (d)  Special charges in 2009 related to announced capacity reductions, the grounding of the Airbus A300 fleet and the write down of certain Embraer RJ-135 aircraft to their estimated fair values.    

49  

Other Income (Expense)  

Other income (expense) consists of Interest income and expense, Interest capitalized and Miscellaneous—net.  

2011 Compared to 2010 Interest income for 2011 and 2010 was $26 million. Interest expense increased $2.6 million, or 0.3 percent, to $826 million primarily as a result of increases in the Company’s long-term debt balance.  

2010 Compared to 2009 Decreases in both short-term investment balances and interest rates caused a decrease in Interest income of $8 million, or 23.1 percent, to $26 million. Interest expense increased $79 million, or 10.7 percent, to $823 million primarily as a result of an increase in the Company’s long-term debt balance.  

Reorganization Items, Net  

Reorganization items refer to revenues, expenses (including professional fees), realized gains and losses and provisions for losses that are realized or incurred in the Chapter 11 Cases. The following table summarizes the components included in reorganization items, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) The Company records an estimated claim associated with the rejection of an executory contract or unexpired lease when it files a motion with the Bankruptcy Court to reject such contract or lease and believes that it is probable the motion will be approved. The Company records an estimated claim associated with the renegotiation of an executory contract or unexpired lease when the renegotiated terms of such contract or lease are not opposed or are otherwise approved by the Bankruptcy Court and there is sufficient information to estimate the claim.  

(2) Estimated allowed claims from rejecting the financing arrangements relating to 24 aircraft. Such rejections have been approved by the Bankruptcy Court.  

Claims related to reorganization items are reflected in liabilities subject to compromise on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011.  

Income Tax Benefit  

The Company did not record a net tax provision (benefit) associated with its net loss for 2011 or 2010 due to the Company providing a valuation allowance, as discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.  

50  

Operating Statistics  

The following table provides statistical information for American and Regional Affiliates for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (*)  Excludes $3.1 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion of expense incurred related to Regional Affiliates in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

51  

OTHER INFORMATION  

Basis of Presentation  

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), including the provisions of ASC 852 “Reorganizations” (ASC 852). ASC 852 requires that the financial statements, for periods subsequent to the Chapter 11 filing, distinguish transactions and events that are directly associated with the reorganization from the ongoing operations of the business. Accordingly, certain revenues, expenses (including professional fees), realized gains and losses and provisions for losses that are realized or incurred in the Chapter 11 proceedings are recorded in reorganization items, net on the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations. In addition, prepetition obligations that may be impacted by the Chapter 11 reorganization process have been classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in liabilities subject to compromise. These liabilities are reported at the amounts expected to be allowed by the Bankruptcy Court, even if they may be settled for lesser amounts.  

The Company has also prepared these Consolidated Financial Statements on a going concern basis, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. Accordingly, the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern.  

Except as set forth in Reorganization items, net, the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements do not purport to reflect or provide for the consequences of the Company’s Chapter 11 Cases. In particular, the financial statements do not purport to show (1) as to assets, their realizable value on a liquidation basis or their availability to satisfy liabilities; (2) as to prepetition liabilities, the amounts that may be allowed for claims or contingencies, or the status and priority thereof; (3) as to shareowners’ equity accounts, the effect of any changes that may be made in our capitalization; or (4) as to operations, the effect of any changes that may be made to our business.  

While operating as debtors-in-possession under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors may sell or otherwise dispose of or liquidate assets or settle liabilities, subject to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court or otherwise as permitted in the ordinary course of business. Moreover, a plan of reorganization could materially change the amounts and classifications in the historical Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The preparation of the Company’s financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company believes its estimates and assumptions are reasonable; however, actual results and the timing of the recognition of such amounts could differ from those estimates. The Company has identified the following critical accounting policies and estimates used by management in the preparation of the Company’s financial statements: long-lived assets, routes, passenger revenue, frequent flyer program, stock compensation, pensions and retiree medical and other benefits, income taxes and derivatives accounting.  

Long-lived assets  

The Company has approximately $15 billion of long-lived assets as of December 31, 2011, including approximately $14 billion related to flight equipment and other fixed assets. In addition to the original cost of these assets, the recorded value of the Company’s fixed assets is impacted by a number of estimates made by the Company, including estimated useful lives, salvage values and the Company’s determination as to whether aircraft are temporarily or permanently grounded. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company records impairment charges on long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired, the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount of those assets and the net book value of the assets exceeds their estimated fair value. In making these determinations, the Company uses certain assumptions, including, but not limited to: (i) estimated fair value of the assets; and (ii) estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the assets, generally evaluated at a fleet level, which are based on additional assumptions such as asset utilization, length of service and estimated salvage values. A change in the Company’s fleet plan has been the primary indicator that has resulted in an impairment charge in the past.  

52  

The majority of American’s fleet types are depreciated over 30 years. It is possible that the ultimate lives of the Company’s aircraft will be significantly different than the current estimate due to unforeseen events in the future that impact the Company’s fleet plan, including positive or negative developments in the areas described above. For example, operating the aircraft for a longer period will result in higher maintenance, fuel and other operating costs than if the Company replaced the aircraft. At some point in the future, higher operating costs, including higher fuel expense, and/or improvement in the Company’s economic condition, could change the Company’s analysis of the impact of retaining aircraft versus replacing them with new aircraft.  

As previously announced, American entered into agreements with Airbus and Boeing in the second quarter of 2011 under which it plans to acquire 460 narrowbody aircraft from the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320 families during the period 2013-2022. The Bankruptcy Court has not approved American’s assumption of the Boeing and Airbus contracts, but has approved certain procedures to allow American to continue taking delivery of Boeing 737 aircraft for the remainder of 2012, subject to objection by the Creditors’ Committee, and subject to certain limitations. In connection with these Boeing and Airbus aircraft agreements and the Company’s anticipated acceleration of its fleet renewal and replacement plan, the Company evaluated the useful lives of certain fleets including McDonnell Douglas MD-80, Boeing 757 and Boeing 767 aircraft. Upon finalization of the fleet plan in the fourth quarter of 2011 (prior to the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases), the Company concluded that a triggering event had occurred, requiring that certain assets be tested for impairment. As a result of this test, the Company concluded the carrying value of Boeing 757 aircraft used in its domestic markets was no longer recoverable. Consequently, the 2011 results include an impairment charge of $713 million to write these and certain related long-lived assets down to their estimated fair values. The impairment charge is non-cash.  

International Slots and Route Authorities  

AMR performs annual impairment tests on its international slots and route authorities, which are indefinite life intangible assets and as a result they are not amortized. As discussed above, the Company also performs impairment tests when events and circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. These tests are primarily based on estimates of discounted future cash flows, using assumptions based on historical results adjusted to reflect the Company’s best estimate of future market and operating conditions and also consideration of markets for these assets. The net carrying value of assets not recoverable is reduced to fair value. The Company’s estimates of fair value represent its best estimate based on industry trends and reference to market rates and transactions.  

The Company had recorded international slots and route authorities of $708 million as of December 31, 2011. The Company estimates the fair value of these assets based on market information and estimated future cash flows. The Company believes its estimates and assumptions are reasonable; however, given the significant uncertainty regarding how open skies agreements will ultimately affect the Company’s operations at Heathrow and Narita, and other international locations that are evaluating “open skies”, as well as volatility in the revenue and fuel environment, the actual results could differ from those estimates. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the valuation of the Company’s routes.  

Passenger revenue  

Passenger ticket sales are initially recorded as a component of Air traffic liability. Revenue derived from ticket sales is recognized at the time service is provided. However, due to various factors, including the industry’s pricing structure and interline agreements throughout the industry, certain amounts are recognized in revenue using estimates regarding both the timing of the revenue recognition and the amount of revenue to be recognized, including breakage. These estimates are generally based upon the evaluation of historical trends, including the use of regression analysis and other methods to model the outcome of future events based on the Company’s historical experience, and are recognized at the scheduled time of departure. The Company’s estimation techniques have been applied consistently from year to year. However, due to changes in the Company’s ticket refund policy and changes in the travel profile of customers, historical trends may not be representative of future results.  

Frequent flyer program  

American uses the incremental cost method to account for the portion of its frequent flyer liability incurred when AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American or its regional affiliates.  

53  

The Company considers breakage in its incremental cost calculation and recognizes breakage on AAdvantage miles sold over the estimated period of usage for sold miles that are ultimately redeemed. The Company calculates its breakage estimate using separate breakage rates for miles earned by flying on American and miles earned through other companies who have purchased AAdvantage miles for distribution to their customers, due to differing behavior patterns. Management considers historical patterns of account breakage to be a useful indicator when estimating future breakage. Future program redemption opportunities can significantly alter customer behavior from historical patterns with respect to inactive accounts. Such changes may result in material changes to the frequent flyer liability, as well as recognized revenues from the program. Breakage trends are decreasing and as a result, during our annual assumptions update, a $43 million charge was recorded primarily related to this trend.  

American includes fuel, food, and passenger insurance costs in the calculation of incremental cost. These estimates are generally updated based upon the Company’s 12-month historical average of such costs. American also accrues a frequent flyer liability for the mileage credits expected to be used for travel on participating airlines based on historical usage patterns and contractual rates.  

Revenue earned from selling AAdvantage miles to other companies is recognized in two components. The first component represents the revenue for air transportation sold and is valued at fair value. This revenue is deferred along with revenue related to expected breakage of sold miles and recognized over the period the mileage is expected to be used, which is currently estimated to be 28 months. The second revenue component, based on the residual method (for contracts in existence prior to January 1, 2011) and representing the marketing services sold, is recognized as related services are provided.  

The Company’s total liability for future AAdvantage award redemptions for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, American Eagle or participating airlines, as well as unrecognized revenue from selling AAdvantage miles to other companies, was approximately $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively (and is recorded as a component of Air traffic liability in the consolidated balance sheets), representing 18.7 percent and 16.3 percent of AMR’s total current liabilities, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

The approximate number of free travel awards used for travel on American and American Eagle was 6.0 million one-way travel awards in 2011 (or 3.0 million round trip awards) and 5.6 million one-way travel awards in 2010 (or 2.8 million round trip travel awards) representing approximately 8.8 percent of passengers boarded in each year. The Company believes displacement of revenue passengers is minimal given the Company’s load factors, its ability to manage frequent flyer seat inventory, and the relatively low ratio of free award usage to total passengers boarded.  

Changes to the percentage of the amount of revenue deferred, deferred recognition period, percentage of awards expected to be redeemed for travel on participating airlines, breakage or cost per mile estimates could have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues or incremental cost accrual in the year of the change as well as in future years.  

Stock Compensation  

The Company grants awards under its various share based payment plans and utilizes option pricing models or fair value models to estimate the fair value of its awards. Certain awards contain a market performance condition, which is taken into account in estimating the fair value on the date of grant. The fair value of those awards is calculated by multiplying the stock price on the date of grant by the expected payout percentage and the number of shares granted. The Company accounts for these awards over the three year term of the award based on the grant date fair value, provided adequate shares are available to settle the awards. For awards where adequate shares are not anticipated to be available or that only permit settlement in cash, the fair value is re-measured each reporting period.  

Pensions and retiree medical and other benefits  

The Company recognizes the funded status (i.e., the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligations) of its pension and postretirement plans in the consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).  

The Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit costs and liabilities are calculated using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies. The Company uses certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the selection of the: (i) discount rate; (ii) expected return on plan assets; and (iii) expected health care cost trend rate and, starting in 2007 (iv) the estimated age of pilot retirement (as discussed below).  

54  

 These assumptions as of December 31 were:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

When establishing our discount rate to measure our obligations, we match high quality corporate bonds available in the marketplace whose cash flows approximate our projected benefit disbursements. Lowering the discount rate by 50 basis points as of December 31, 2011 would increase the Company’s pension and postretirement benefits obligations by approximately $1 billion and $174 million, respectively, and increase estimated 2012 pension expense by $91 million and reduce postretirement benefit expense by $2 million, respectively.  

The expected return on plan assets is based upon an evaluation of the Company’s historical trends and experience taking into account current and expected market conditions and the Company’s target asset allocation of 35 percent longer duration corporate and U.S. government/agency bonds, 28 percent U.S. value stocks, 20 percent developed international stocks, 6 percent emerging markets stocks and bonds and 11 percent alternative (private) investments. The expected return on plan assets component of the Company’s net periodic benefit cost is calculated based on the fair value of plan assets and the Company’s target asset allocation. The Company monitors its actual asset allocation and believes that its long-term asset allocation will continue to approximate its target allocation. The Company’s historical annualized ten-year rate of return on plan assets, calculated using a geometric compounding of monthly returns, is approximately 7.7 percent as of December 31, 2011. Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by 50 basis points as of December 31, 2011 would increase estimated 2012 pension expense by approximately $40 million.  

The health care cost trend rate is based upon an evaluation of the Company’s historical trends and experience taking into account current and expected market conditions. Increasing the assumed health care cost trend rate by 100 basis points would increase estimated 2012 postretirement benefits expense by $20 million.  

Income taxes – The Company generally believes that the positions taken on previously filed income tax returns are more likely than not to be sustained by the taxing authorities. The Company has recorded income tax and related interest liabilities where the Company believes its position may not be sustained or where the full income tax benefit will not be recognized. The effects of potential income tax benefits resulting from the Company’s unrecognized tax positions are not reflected in the tax balances of the financial statements. Recognized and unrecognized tax positions are reviewed and adjusted as events occur that affect the Company’s judgment about the recognizability of income tax benefits, such as lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, conclusion of tax audits, release of administrative guidance, or rendering of a court decision affecting a particular tax position. The Company records a deferred tax asset valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of its deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company considers its historical earnings, trends, and outlook for future years in making this determination. The Company had a deferred tax valuation allowance of $4.1 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011 and 2010. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.  

Derivatives – As required by U.S. GAAP, the Company assesses, both at the inception of each hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in its hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. In doing so, the Company uses a regression model to determine the correlation of the change in prices of the commodities used to hedge jet fuel (e.g., NYMEX Heating oil) to the change in the price of jet fuel. The Company also monitors the actual dollar offset of the hedges’ market values as compared to hypothetical jet fuel hedges. The fuel hedge contracts are generally deemed to be “highly effective”  

55  

 if the R-squared is greater than 80 percent and the dollar offset correlation is within 80 percent to 125 percent. The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively if it determines that a derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective as a hedge or if it decides to discontinue the hedging relationship. The fair value of the Company’s hedging contracts is recorded in Current Assets or Current Liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and is recorded gross of the collateral posted and on a trade basis. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had derivative contracts in an asset position at fair value of $95 million. A deferred gain of $30 million was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) at December 31, 2011 and will be recognized in future periods as contracts settle.  

New Accounting Pronouncements  

In November of 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance that significantly changes the accounting for revenue in arrangements with multiple deliverables by requiring entities to separately account for individual deliverables in more of these arrangements and estimate the fair value of each component individually on a pro-rata basis. The guidance removes the criterion that entities must use vendor-specific objective and reliable evidence of fair value when separately accounting for deliverables, allowing for the recognition of revenue in a manner that more closely aligns with the economics of certain arrangements, based on management’s estimate of the selling price. The standard must be applied prospectively to revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. In addition, the FASB significantly expanded the disclosures related to multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. The Company believes the impact of adoption was not material in 2011, but could have a significant impact on future results as new or materially modified revenue arrangements with certain partners are established in the normal course of business.  

In June of 2011, the FASB issued new guidance revising the manner in which entities present comprehensive income in their financial statements. The new guidance requires entities to report components of comprehensive income in either (1) a continuous statement of comprehensive income or (2) two separate but consecutive statements. Under the two-statement approach, the first statement would include components of net income, which is consistent with the income statement format used today, and the second statement would include components of OCI. Items that must be reported in OCI do not change. For public entities, the guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. Guidance must be applied retrospectively for all periods presented in the financial statements. Early adoption is permitted, and as such the Company elected to early adopt this guidance for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  

56  

Glossary of Defined Terms  

ASM—Available Seat Mile. A measure of capacity. ASMs equal the total number of seats available for transporting passengers during a reporting period multiplied by the total number of miles flown during that period.  

CASM—(Operating) Cost per Available Seat Mile. The amount of operating cost incurred per ASM during a reporting period, also referred to as “unit cost.”  

Passenger Load Factor—A measure of utilized available seating capacity calculated by dividing RPMs by ASMs for a reporting period.  

Passenger Mile Yield or Yield—The amount of passenger revenue earned per RPM during a reporting period.  

RASM— Passenger Revenue per ASM. The amount of passenger revenue earned per ASM during a reporting period. Passenger RASM is also referred to as “unit revenue.”  

RPM—Revenue Passenger Mile. One revenue-paying passenger transported one mile. RPMs equal the number of revenue passengers during a reporting period multiplied by the number of miles flown by those passengers during that period. RPMs are also referred to as “traffic.”  

57  

 ITEM 7(A).  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions  

The risk inherent in the Company’s market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the price of fuel, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates as discussed below. The sensitivity analyses presented do not consider the effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic activity, nor do they consider additional actions management may take to mitigate the Company’s exposure to such changes. Therefore, actual results may differ. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for accounting policies and additional information regarding derivatives.  

Aircraft Fuel The Company’s earnings are substantially affected by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. In order to provide a measure of control over price and supply, the Company trades and ships fuel and maintains fuel storage facilities to support its flight operations. The Company also manages the price risk of fuel costs through the use of hedging contracts, primarily call options, collars (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold put option) and call spreads (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold call option). Heating oil, jet fuel and crude oil are the primary underlying commodities in the hedge portfolio. Market risk is estimated as a hypothetical 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2011 and 2010 cost per gallon of fuel. Based on projected 2012 fuel usage, such an increase would result in an increase to Aircraft fuel expense of approximately $743 million in 2012, inclusive of the impact of effective fuel hedge instruments outstanding at December 31, 2011, and assumes the Company’s fuel hedging program remains effective. Such an increase would have resulted in an increase to projected Aircraft fuel expense of approximately $502 million in 2011, inclusive of the impact of fuel hedge instruments outstanding at December 31, 2010. As of January 2012, the Company had cash flow hedges covering approximately 21 percent of its estimated 2012 fuel requirements. Comparatively, as of December 31, 2010, the Company had hedged approximately 35 percent of its estimated 2011 fuel requirements. The consumption hedged for 2012 is capped at an average price of approximately $3.08 per gallon of jet fuel, with protection capped on 2 percent of estimated consumption, through the use of sold call options, at an average of $3.49 per gallon of jet fuel. The Company’s collars represent approximately 16 percent of its estimated 2012 fuel requirements and have an average floor price of approximately $2.24 per gallon of jet fuel (both the capped and floor price exclude taxes and transportation costs). A deterioration of the Company’s financial position could negatively affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future.  

Ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in crude oil or other crude oil related commodities. The Company assesses, both at the inception of each hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in its hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. In doing so, the Company uses a regression model to determine the correlation of the change in prices of the commodities used to hedge jet fuel (e.g., NYMEX Heating oil) to the change in the price of jet fuel. The Company also monitors the actual dollar offset of the hedges’ market values as compared to hypothetical jet fuel hedges. The fuel hedge contracts are generally deemed to be “highly effective” if the R-squared is greater than 80 percent and the dollar offset correlation is within 80 percent to 125 percent. The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively if it determines that a derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective as a hedge or if it decides to discontinue the hedging relationship.  

Foreign Currency The Company is exposed to the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. The Company’s largest exposure comes from the British pound, Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and various Latin American currencies. The Company does not currently have a foreign currency hedge program related to its foreign currency-denominated ticket sales. A uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2011 and 2010 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the Company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in operating income of approximately $174 million and $170 million for the years ending December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, due to the Company’s foreign-denominated revenues exceeding its foreign-denominated expenses. This sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2012 and 2011 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

58  

Interest The Company’s earnings are also affected by changes in interest rates due to the impact those changes have on its interest income from cash and short-term investments, and its interest expense from variable-rate debt instruments. The Company’s largest exposure with respect to variable rate debt comes from changes in the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Company had variable rate debt instruments representing approximately 19 percent and 23 percent of its total long-term debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. If the Company’s interest rates average 10 percent more in 2012 than they did at December 31, 2011, the Company’s interest expense would increase by approximately $6 million and interest income from cash and short-term investments would increase by approximately $2 million. In comparison, at December 31, 2010, the Company estimated that if interest rates averaged 10 percent more in 2011 than they did at December 31, 2010, the Company’s interest expense would have increased by approximately $7 million and interest income from cash and short-term investments would have increased by approximately $3 million. These amounts are determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on the Company’s variable rate long-term debt and cash and short-term investment balances at December 31, 2011 and 2010.  

Market risk for fixed rate long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates and amounts to approximately $305 million and $237 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The fair values of the Company’s long-term debt were estimated using quoted market prices or discounted future cash flows based on the Company’s incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements.  

In accordance with ASC 852, the Debtors record interest expense only to the extent (1) interest will be paid during the Chapter 11 Cases or (2) it is probable that the Bankruptcy Court will allow a claim in respect of such interest. Interest expense recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Operations totaled $826 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Contractual interest expense (including interest expense that is associated with obligations in liabilities subject to compromise) during this period totaled $833 million.  

59  

ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS