PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Chapter 11 Proceedings  

On November 29, 2011 (the Petition Date), AMR Corporation (AMR or the Company) and certain of the Company’s direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries (collectively, the Debtors) filed voluntary petitions for relief (the Chapter 11 Cases) under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the Bankruptcy Code), in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the Bankruptcy Court). The Chapter 11 Cases are being jointly administered under the caption “in re AMR Corporation, et al, Case No. 11-15463-SHL.”  

No assurance can be given as to the value, if any, that may be ascribed to the Debtors’ various pre-petition liabilities and other securities. The Company cannot predict what the ultimate value of any of its securities may be and it remains too early to determine whether holders of any such securities will receive any distribution in the Debtors’ reorganization. In particular, in most cases under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, holders of equity securities receive little or no recovery of value from their investment. Accordingly, the Debtors urge that caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in any of these securities or other Debtor claims. In addition, trading in the Company’s common stock and certain debt securities on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE) was suspended on January 5, 2012, and the Company’s common stock and such debt securities were delisted by the Securities and Exchange Commission from the NYSE on January 30, 2012. On January 5, 2012, the Company’s common stock began trading under the symbol “AAMRQ” on the OTCQB marketplace, operated by OTC Markets Group (www.otcmarkets.com).  

The Company and the other Debtors are currently operating as “debtors in possession” under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code. In general, as debtors in possession under the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors are authorized to continue to operate as an ongoing business but may not engage in transactions outside the ordinary course of business without the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court. The Bankruptcy Code enables the Company to continue to operate its business without interruption and the Bankruptcy Court has granted additional relief covering, among other things, obligations to (i) employees, (ii) taxing authorities, (iii) insurance providers, (iv) independent contractors for improvement projects, (v) foreign vendors, (vi) other airlines pursuant to certain interline agreements, and (vii) certain vendors deemed critical to the Debtors’ operations.  

The Chapter 11 petitions triggered defaults on substantially all debt obligations of the Debtors. However, under Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code, the commencement of a Chapter 11 case automatically stays most creditor actions against the Debtors’ property.  

Additional information about the Company’s Chapter 11 Case is available on the Internet at aa.com/restructuring. Court filings and claims information are available at amrcaseinfo.com. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Chapter 11 Proceedings” for further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases.  

General Description  

AMR was incorporated in October 1982. Virtually all of AMR’s operations fall within the airline industry. AMR’s principal subsidiary, American Airlines, Inc. (American), was founded in 1934. At the end of 2011, American provided scheduled jet service to approximately 160 destinations throughout North America, the Caribbean, Latin America, Europe and Asia.  

AMR Eagle Holding Corporation (AMR Eagle), a wholly-owned subsidiary of AMR, owns two regional airlines which do business as “American Eagle” – American Eagle Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc. (collectively, the American Eagle® carriers). American also contracts with an independently owned regional airline, which does business as “AmericanConnection” (the AmericanConnection® carrier).  

The AMR Eagle fleet is operated to feed passenger traffic to American pursuant to a capacity purchase agreement between American and AMR Eagle under which American receives all passenger revenue from flights and pays AMR Eagle a fee for each flight. The capacity purchase agreement reflects what the Company believes are current market rates received by other regional carriers for similar flying. Amounts paid to AMR Eagle under the capacity purchase agreement are available to pay for various operating expenses of AMR Eagle, such as crew expenses, maintenance, and other aircraft related expenses. As of December 31, 2011, AMR Eagle operated approximately 1,500 daily departures, offering scheduled passenger service to over 175 destinations in North America, Mexico and the Caribbean. On a separate company basis, AMR Eagle reported $2.5 billion in revenue in 2011.  

1  

American, AMR Eagle and the AmericanConnection® airline serve more than 250 cities in approximately 50 countries with, on average, 3,400 daily flights. The combined network fleet numbers approximately 900 aircraft. American Airlines is also a founding member of oneworld® alliance, which enables member airlines to offer their customers more services and benefits than any member airline can provide individually. These services include a broader route network, opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles across the combined oneworld network and more airport lounges. Together, oneworld members serve more than 750 destinations in approximately 150 countries, with about 8,500 daily departures. American is also one of the largest scheduled air freight carriers in the world, providing a wide range of freight and mail services to shippers throughout its system onboard American’s passenger fleet.  

Competition  

Domestic Air Transportation The domestic airline industry is fiercely competitive. Currently, any United States (U.S.) air carrier deemed fit by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its possessions. Most major air carriers have developed hub-and-spoke systems and schedule patterns in an effort to maximize the revenue potential of their service. American operates in five primary domestic markets: Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW), Chicago O’Hare, Miami, New York City and Los Angeles.  

The American Eagle® carriers increase the number of markets the Company serves by providing connections at American’s primary markets. The AmericanConnection® carrier currently provides connecting service to American through Chicago O’Hare. American’s competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional carriers which provide similar services at their major hubs and other locations.  

On most of its domestic non-stop routes, the Company faces competing service from at least one, and sometimes more than one, domestic airline including: Alaska Airlines (Alaska), Delta Air Lines (Delta), Frontier Airlines, JetBlue Airways (JetBlue), Hawaiian Airlines, Southwest Airlines (Southwest) and AirTran Airways (Air Tran), Spirit Airlines, United Airlines (United) and Continental Airlines (Continental), US Airways, Virgin America Airlines and their affiliated regional carriers. Competition is even greater between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs. In addition, the Company faces competition on some of its connecting routes from carriers operating point-to-point service on such routes. The Company also competes with all-cargo and charter carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation. On all of its routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines.  

International Air Transportation In addition to its extensive domestic service, the Company provides international service to the Caribbean, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia. The Company’s operating revenues from foreign operations (flights serving international destinations) were approximately 40 percent of the Company’s total operating revenues in each of the three years 2011, 2010, and 2009. Additional information about the Company’s foreign operations is included in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.  

In providing international air transportation, the Company competes with foreign investor-owned carriers, foreign state-owned carriers and U.S. airlines that have been granted authority to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations. In general, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets beyond the nonstop city pair have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers’ rights to carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. To improve access to each other’s markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers – including American – have established marketing relationships with other airlines and rail companies. American currently has marketing relationships with Air Berlin, Air Pacific, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cape Air, Cathay Pacific, China Eastern Airlines, Dragonair, Deutsche Bahn German Rail, EL AL, Etihad Airways, EVA Air, Finnair, GOL, Gulf Air, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, Japan Airlines (JAL), Jet Airways, JetStar Airways, LAN (includes LAN Airlines, LAN Argentina, LAN Ecuador and LAN Peru), Niki Airlines, Qantas Airways, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines, and Vietnam Airlines.  

American is also a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, LAN Airlines, Iberia, Qantas, JAL, Royal Jordanian and S7 Airlines. Air Berlin, the 5th largest airline in Europe, is scheduled to join in early 2012. Malaysia Airlines is scheduled to join in late 2012. The oneworld alliance links the networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers’ frequent flyer programs and access to the carriers’ airport lounge facilities.  

2  

In July 2010, American obtained clearance from the European Commission (EC) and approval by the DOT for antitrust immunity (ATI) for its cooperation with British Airways, Iberia, Finnair and Royal Jordanian. This approval enables American, British Airways and Iberia, through a joint business agreement (JBA), to cooperate on flights between North America and most countries in Europe, and allows pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas. American began implementation of the JBA with British Airways and Iberia and expanded cooperation with Finnair and Royal Jordanian in October 2010.  

American continued to grow its global network throughout 2011, adding more than 30 new destinations through relationships with airlines around the globe, including JAL and Qantas. In 2010, American and JAL entered into a JBA to enhance their scope of cooperation on routes between North America and Asia through adjustments to their respective networks, flight schedules, and other business activities. The carriers also received antitrust immunity (ATI) approval on these routes from the DOT and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport, and Tourism of Japan and began implementing the JBA on April 1, 2011. The JBA provides for expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas. American and JAL entered into a Revenue Sharing Agreement, effective April 1, 2011, as envisaged by the JBA. Under this agreement, American and JAL share certain revenues of their operations. In addition, American provided JAL a guarantee of certain minimum incremental revenue resulting from the successful operation of the joint business for the first three years following its implementation, subject to certain terms and conditions. The amount required to be paid by the Company under the guarantee in any one of such years may not exceed $100 million, and is reduced if capacity for one of such years is less than a defined base year period capacity. Based on current Trans-Pacific capacity, the guarantee in any one of such years may not exceed approximately $75 million. As of December 31, 2011, based on an expected probability model, American had recorded a guarantee liability that is not material. On November 10, 2011, American received formal government approval of its joint business with Qantas, which will allow the carriers to coordinate services between the United States, Australia and New Zealand.  

Price Competition The airline industry is characterized by substantial and intense price competition. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Company’s financial results because the Company is generally required to match competitors’ fares, as failing to match would provide even less revenue due to customers’ price sensitivity.  

There are a number of low-cost carriers (LCCs) in the domestic market and the Company competes with LCCs over a very large part of its network. Several major airlines, including the Company, have implemented efforts to lower their costs since lower cost structures enable airlines to offer lower fares. In addition, several air carriers have reorganized in recent years under Chapter 11, including United, Delta, and US Airways. These cost reduction efforts, bankruptcy reorganizations and subsequent consolidations (e.g., United/Continental; Delta/Northwest) have allowed carriers to decrease operating costs. Lower cost structures have generally resulted in fare reductions. Over the past several years, the Company has been unable to offset its substantial cost disadvantage through increases in passenger traffic, changes in the mix of traffic that improve yields and/or cost reductions. Consequently, the Company filed the Chapter 11 Cases to become a more efficient, financially stronger and more competitive airline.  

Regulation  

General The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and freight transportation. However, DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) still exercise certain regulatory authority over air carriers. DOT maintains jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, international route authorities, and certain consumer protection and competition matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability.  

The FAA regulates flying operations generally, including establishing standards for personnel, aircraft and certain security measures. As part of that oversight, the FAA has implemented a number of requirements that the Company has incorporated and is incorporating into its maintenance programs. The Company is progressing toward the completion of over 500 airworthiness directives, a number of which require the Company to perform significant maintenance work and to incur additional expenses. Based on its current implementation schedule, the Company expects to be in compliance with the applicable requirements within the required time periods. DOT and the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to  

3  

 disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and collective bargaining agreements (CBAs). In addition, as a result of heightened levels of concern regarding data privacy, the Company is subject to an increasing number of domestic and foreign laws regarding the privacy and security of passenger and employee data.  

On December 21, 2011, the FAA issued its final rule governing pilot rest periods and work hours for all carriers certificated under Part 121 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, including American and the AMR Eagle carriers. The rule, which is effective January 14, 2014, impacts the required amount and timing of rest periods for pilots between work assignments and modifies duty and rest requirements based on the time of day, number of scheduled segments, flight types, time zones and other factors. These regulations could have a material adverse impact on the Company upon implementation.  

International International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. The Company’s operating authority in international markets is subject to aviation agreements between the U.S. and the respective countries or governmental authorities (such as the European Union), and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments. Moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. Bilateral and multilateral agreements among the U.S. and various foreign governments of countries served by the Company are periodically subject to renegotiation. Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of route authorities, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s international operations. In addition, at some foreign airports, an air carrier needs slots (landing and take-off authorizations) before the air carrier can introduce new service or increase existing service. The availability of such slots is not assured and the inability of the Company to obtain and retain needed slots could therefore inhibit its efforts to compete in certain international markets.  

Security In November 2001, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (ATSA) was enacted in the U.S. The ATSA created a new government agency, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which is part of the Department of Homeland Security and is responsible for aviation security. The ATSA mandates that the TSA provide for the screening of all passengers and property, including U.S. mail, cargo, carry-on and checked baggage, and other articles that will be carried aboard a passenger aircraft. The ATSA also provides for security in flight decks of aircraft and requires federal air marshals to be present on certain flights.  

Effective February 1, 2002, the ATSA imposed a $2.50 per enplanement security service fee, which is being collected by the air carriers and submitted to the government to pay for these enhanced security measures. Additionally, air carriers are annually required to submit to the government an amount equal to what the air carriers paid for screening passengers and property in 2000. In recent years, the government has sought to increase both of these fees under spending proposals for the Department of Homeland Security. American and other carriers have announced their opposition to these proposals as there is no assurance that any increase in fees could be passed on to customers.  

Airline Fares Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which the Company serves. While air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs, substantial commissions, fare overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers characterize many international markets.  

Airport Access Operations at four major domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by the Company are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of “slots” or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period.  

In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of slots, slot exemptions, operating authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at Reagan National in Washington, D.C., LaGuardia and JFK in New York, and Newark. The Company’s operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or analogous regulatory authorities. Similarly, the Company’s operations at Tokyo’s Narita Airport, London’s Heathrow Airport and other international airports are regulated by local slot coordinators pursuant to the International Air Transport Association’s Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines and applicable local law. The Company currently has sufficient slots or analogous authorizations to operate its existing flights, and it has generally been able to obtain the rights to expand its operations and to change its schedules. There is no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are subject to changes in governmental policies.  

4  

In 2006, the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006 (the Act) became law. The Act is based on an agreement by the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, DFW International Airport, Southwest, and the Company to modify the Wright Amendment, which authorizes certain flight operations at Dallas Love Field within defined geographic areas. Among other things, in October 2014 the Act eliminates domestic geographic restrictions on operations while limiting the maximum number of gates at Love Field. The Company believes the Act is a pragmatic resolution of the issues related to the Wright Amendment and the use of Love Field.  

Environmental Matters The Company is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on the Company include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act). Certain operations of the Company concerning employee safety and health matters are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on the Company’s operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.  

The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. The ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft. While the Company has had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.  

Many aspects of the Company’s operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation. For example, the EU approved measures that impose emissions limits on airlines with operations to, from or within the EU as part of an emissions trading system beginning in 2012. Such legislative or regulatory action by the U.S., state or foreign governments currently or in the future may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information.  

The environmental laws to which the Company is subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. The Company is conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. The Company anticipates that the ongoing costs of such activities will be immaterial. The Company has also been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at certain Superfund sites. The Company’s alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are small in comparison to total contributions of all PRPs and the Company expects that any future payments of its share of costs at such sites will be immaterial.  

Labor  

The airline business is labor intensive. Wages, salaries and benefits represented approximately 28 percent of the Company’s consolidated operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011. The average full-time equivalent number of people of the Company’s subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2011 was 80,100.  

The majority of these people are represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under this act, the collective bargaining agreements among the Company’s subsidiaries and these organizations generally do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed to by the parties. Under the RLA, after receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the NMB to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months, and even for several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During that period (or after), a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be  

5  

 established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new people to replace any striking workers.  

Prior to the Chapter 11 filings on November 29, 2011, American had been in negotiations with its unions under the RLA for as long as five years. It began negotiations with the Allied Pilots Association (APA) in 2006. Also in 2006, American began negotiations with the Transport Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO (TWU) with respect only to dispatchers, and in 2007 it commenced negotiations with the TWU with respect to the six other employee groups, including Mechanics and Related and Fleet Service employees, represented by the TWU. In 2008, American commenced negotiations with the Association of Professional Flight Attendants (APFA).  

With the exception of tentative agreements with the TWU covering the Maintenance Control Technicians and Ground School and Simulator Pilot Instructors that were ratified, as of the Petition Date, all of American’s remaining collective bargaining agreements remained open and in mediation under the auspices of the NMB.  

Likewise, prior to the Petition Date, AMR Eagle had been in negotiations with its unions under the RLA for as long as three years. In approximately February 2008, AMR Eagle began negotiations with the TWU with respect to Dispatchers, and in approximately November 2009 it commenced negotiations with the TWU with respect to Fleet Service Clerks. AMR Eagle began negotiations with the Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) in February 2010.  

Prior to the Petition Date, AMR Eagle and the AFA had reached tentative agreements on some sections of the AFA agreement. As of the Petition Date, the AFA agreement remained open and in negotiations. AMR Eagle has current agreements with two TWU-represented job groups: Mechanics and Related Employees (whose agreement expires on April 27, 2012) and non-management Ground Service Instructors (whose agreement expires on April 1, 2012). Agreements with the two remaining groups represented by the TWU – Fleet Service Clerks and Dispatchers – expired in January 2008. AMR Eagle began negotiating actively with the TWU in 2008. While some tentative agreements were reached, certain issues remained open as of the Petition Date.  

AMR Eagle’s current collective bargaining agreement with the Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA), became effective in September 1997 and extends by its terms to 2013, with amendment rounds every four years. The most recent round resulted in an amended agreement between AMR Eagle and ALPA in 2008. Following AMR’s June 2010 announcement about the possible divestiture of AMR Eagle, ALPA and AMR Eagle entered negotiations. ALPA’s negotiating committee and AMR Eagle reached a tentative agreement in October 2011 contingent upon the previously announced planned divestiture of AMR Eagle from the Company. Contract language has not been drafted and the tentative agreement was not sent to ALPA membership for a vote. The Company announced that the planned divestiture of AMR Eagle was put on hold as a result of filing the Chapter 11 Cases.  

The Bankruptcy Code provides a process for the modification and/or rejection of collective bargaining agreements (CBAs). In particular, Section 1113(c) of the Code permits a debtor to reject its CBAs if the debtor satisfies a number of statutorily prescribed substantive and procedural prerequisites and obtains the Bankruptcy Court’s approval to reject the CBAs. The 1113(c) process requires that a debtor must make proposals to its unions to modify existing CBAs based on the most complete and reliable information available at the time the proposals are made. The proposed modifications must be necessary to permit the reorganization of the debtor and must assure that all the affected parties are treated fairly and equitably. The debtor must provide the unions with all information necessary to evaluate the proposals, and meet at reasonable times and confer in good faith with the unions in an effort to reach mutually agreeable modifications to the CBAs. If consensual agreements are not reached, the debtor may file a motion with the Bankruptcy Court requesting approval to reject the CBAs. Rejection of the CBAs is appropriate if the Court finds the debtor’s proposals are necessary for its reorganization, are fair and equitable, and that the unions refused to agree to the proposals without good cause. American commenced the Section 1113(c) process with its unions on February 1, 2012. AMR Eagle intends to commence the Section 1113(c) process with its unions soon. The Company cannot currently predict the outcome of the Section 1113(c) process.  

6  

Fuel  

The Company’s operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet fuel. The Company’s fuel costs and consumption for the years 2009 through 2011 were:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In order to provide a measure of control over price and supply, the Company trades and ships fuel and maintains fuel storage facilities to support its flight operations. The Company also manages the price risk of fuel costs through the use of hedging contracts, primarily call options, collars (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold put option) and call spreads (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold call option). Heating oil, jet fuel and crude oil are the primary underlying commodities in the hedge portfolio. The Company does not take a view on the direction of fuel prices; instead, the Company layers in fuel hedges on a systematic basis. Depending on movements in the price of fuel, the Company’s fuel hedging program can result in gains or losses on its fuel hedges.  

During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s fuel hedging program increased (decreased) the Company’s fuel expense by approximately $(335) million, $142 million and $651 million, respectively. As of January 2012, the Company had cash flow hedges covering approximately 21 percent of its estimated 2012 fuel requirements. The consumption hedged for 2012 is capped at an average price of approximately $3.08 per gallon of jet fuel, with protection capped on 2 percent of estimated consumption, through the use of sold call options, at an average of $3.49 per gallon of jet fuel. The Company’s collars represent approximately 16 percent of its estimated 2012 fuel requirements and have an average floor price of approximately $2.24 per gallon of jet fuel (both the capped and floor price exclude taxes and transportation costs). A deterioration of the Company’s financial position could negatively affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future. See the Risk Factors under Item 1A for additional information regarding fuel.  

Additional information regarding the Company’s fuel program is also included in Item 7(A) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Frequent Flyer Program  

American established the AAdvantage® frequent flyer program (AAdvantage) to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. The Company believes that the AAdvantage program is one of its competitive strengths. AAdvantage benefits from a growing base of approximately 69 million members with desirable demographics who have demonstrated a strong willingness to collect AAdvantage miles over other loyalty program incentives and are generally disposed to adjusting their purchasing behavior in order to earn additional AAdvantage miles. AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American, American Eagle, and the AmericanConnection® carrier or by using services of other participants in the AAdvantage program. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, American Eagle or other participating airlines, or for other awards. Once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the member may book award travel. Most travel awards are subject to capacity controlled seating. A member’s mileage credit does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months.  

American sells mileage credits and related services to other participants in the AAdvantage program. There are over 1,000 program participants, including a leading credit card issuer, hotels, car rental companies and other products and services companies in the AAdvantage program. The Company believes that program participants benefit from the sustained purchasing behavior of AAdvantage members, which translates into a recurring stream of revenues for AAdvantage. Under its agreements with AAdvantage members and program participants, the Company reserves the right to change the AAdvantage program at any time without notice, and may end the program with six months notice. As of December 31, 2011, AAdvantage had approximately 69 million total members, and 591 billion outstanding award miles. During 2011, AAdvantage issued approximately 167 billion miles, of which approximately 65% were sold to program participants. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under Item 7 for more information on AAdvantage.  

7  

Cargo  

American Airlines Cargo, a division of American, provides over 100 million pounds of weekly cargo lift capacity to major cities in the United States, Europe, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, Latin America and Asia. American’s cargo network is one of the largest air cargo networks in the world, with facilities and interline connections available across the globe. During 2011, American Airlines Cargo accounted for approximately 3.0% of the Company’s operating revenues by generating $703 million in freight and mail revenue, an increase of 4.5% versus 2010.  

Other revenues  

Other revenues, which approximate 10.9% of total revenues, includes revenue from the marketing services related to the sale of mileage credits in the AAdvantage program as discussed above, membership fees and related revenue from the Company’s Admirals Club operations, and other miscellaneous service revenue, including administrative service charges and baggage handling fees. Other revenues have been increasing as the Company unbundles its services and charges for ancillary services.  

Other Matters  

Seasonality and Other Factors The Company’s results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year since the air transportation business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Higher demand for air travel has traditionally resulted in more favorable operating and financial results for the second and third quarters of the year than for the first and fourth quarters. Fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather, natural disasters, outbreaks of disease, and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 2011 is included in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the results of operations in the air transportation business have also significantly fluctuated in the past in response to general economic conditions.  

Insurance The Company carries insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft. As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 (the Terrorist Attacks), aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to the Company, or significantly increase its cost, the Company would be adversely affected.  

The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines through September 30, 2012, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government were to cease providing such insurance in whole or in part, it is likely that the Company could obtain comparable coverage in the commercial market, but the Company would incur substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms. There can be no assurance that comparable war-risk coverage will be available in the commercial market. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate war-risk coverage at commercially reasonable rates, the Company would be adversely affected.  

Other Government Matters In time of war or during a national emergency or defense oriented situation, American and other air carriers can be required to provide airlift services to the Air Mobility Command under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program. In the event the Company has to provide a substantial number of aircraft and crew to the Air Mobility Command, its operations could be adversely impacted.  

Available Information The Company makes its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 available free of charge under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company’s code of ethics (called the Standards of Business Conduct), which applies to all employees of the Company, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Controller, is posted under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com. The Company intends to disclose any amendments to the code of ethics, or waivers of the code of ethics on behalf of the CEO, CFO or Controller, under the Investor Relations page on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. The charters for the AMR Board of Directors’ standing committees (the Audit, Compensation, Diversity and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees), as well as the Board of Directors’ Governance Policies (the Governance Policies), are likewise available on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into or otherwise made a part of this Report.  

8  

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS