ITEM 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The discussion below contains forward-looking statements that are based upon our current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to inaccurate assumptions and known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those identified in “Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information” below and in Item 1A “Risk Factors.”  

 Introduction  

 We are a leading national provider of specialty contracting services, offering end-to-end network solutions to the electric power, gas, telecommunications, cable television and specialty services industries. We believe we are one of the largest contractors servicing the transmission and distribution sector of the North American electric utility industry. We derive our revenues from one reportable segment. Our customers include electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. We had consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 of approximately $2.66 billion, of which 57% was attributable to electric power work, 14% to gas work, 17% to telecommunications and cable television work and 12% to ancillary services, such as inside electrical wiring, intelligent traffic networks, fueling systems, cable and control systems for light rail lines, airports and highways and specialty rock trenching, directional boring and road milling for industrial and commercial customers.  

 Our customers include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. We have developed strong strategic alliances with numerous customers and strive to develop and maintain our status as a preferred vendor to our customers. We enter into various types of contracts, including competitive unit price, hourly rate, cost-plus (or time and materials basis), and fixed price (or lump sum basis), the final terms and prices of which we frequently negotiate with the customer. Although the terms of our contracts vary considerably, most are made on either a unit price or fixed price basis in which we agree to do the work for a price per unit of  

 32   
 work performed (unit price) or for a fixed amount for the entire project (fixed price). We complete a substantial majority of our fixed price projects within one year, while we frequently provide maintenance and repair work under open-ended unit price or cost-plus master service agreements that are renewable annually. Some of our customers require us to post performance and payment bonds upon execution of the contract, depending upon the nature of the work to be performed.  

 We generally recognize revenue on our unit price and cost-plus contracts when units are completed or services are performed. For our fixed price contracts, we typically record revenues as work on the contract progresses on a percentage-of-completion basis. Under this valuation method, revenue is recognized based on the percentage of total costs incurred to date in proportion to total estimated costs to complete the contract. Fixed price contracts generally include retainage provisions under which a percentage of the contract price is withheld until the project is complete and has been accepted by our customer.  

 Merger with InfraSource Services, Inc.  

 On August 30, 2007, Quanta acquired, through a merger transaction (the Merger), all of the outstanding common stock of InfraSource Services, Inc. (InfraSource). Similar to Quanta, InfraSource provided design, engineering, procurement, construction, testing and maintenance services to electric power utilities, natural gas utilities, telecommunication customers, government entities and heavy industrial companies, such as petrochemical, processing and refining businesses, primarily in the United States. As a result of the Merger, Quanta enhanced and expanded its position as a leading specialized contracting services company serving the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries and added a dark fiber leasing business. The dark fiber leasing business consists primarily of leasing point-to-point telecommunications infrastructure in select markets to communication services providers, large industrial and financial services customers, school districts and other entities with high bandwidth telecommunication needs. The telecommunication services provided through this business are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and certain state public utility commissions.  

 Seasonality; Fluctuations of Results  

 Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project schedules and timing and holidays. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions cause delays. The second quarter is typically better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. The third quarter is typically the best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. Revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are typically lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are completed in the fourth quarter and revenues often are impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budget before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather sometimes can cause delays and thereby reduce revenues and increase costs.  

 Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines in new projects in various geographic regions in the United States. Project schedules, in particular in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided under projects, which may adversely affect us in a given quarter. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter, regional and national economic conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition assimilation costs and interest rate fluctuations may also materially affect quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter or year may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for any other year. You should read “Outlook” and “Understanding Gross Margins” for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

 33   
 Understanding Gross Margins  

 Our gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenues. Cost of services, which is subtracted from revenues to obtain gross profit, consists primarily of salaries, wages and benefits to employees, depreciation, fuel and other equipment expenses, equipment rentals, subcontracted services, insurance, facilities expenses, materials and parts and supplies. Various factors — some controllable, some not — impact our gross margins on a quarterly or annual basis.  

 Seasonal and Geographical. As discussed above, seasonal patterns can have a significant impact on gross margins. Generally, business is slower in the winter months versus the warmer months of the year. This can be offset somewhat by increased demand for electrical service and repair work resulting from severe weather. In addition, the mix of business conducted in different parts of the country will affect margins, as some parts of the country offer the opportunity for higher gross margins than others.  

 Weather. Adverse or favorable weather conditions can impact gross margins in a given period. For example, it is typical in the first quarter of any fiscal year that parts of the country may experience snow or rainfall that may negatively impact our revenues and gross margin due to reduced productivity. In many cases, projects may be delayed or temporarily placed on hold. Conversely, in periods when weather remains dry and temperatures are accommodating, more work can be done, sometimes with less cost, which would have a favorable impact on gross margins. In some cases, strong storms or hurricanes can provide us with high margin emergency service restoration work, which generally has a positive impact on margins.  

 Revenue Mix. The mix of revenues derived from the industries we serve will impact gross margins. Changes in our customers’ spending patterns in each of the industries we serve can cause an imbalance in supply and demand and, therefore, affect margins and mix of revenues by industry served.  

 Service and Maintenance versus Installation. Installation work is often obtained on a fixed price basis, while maintenance work is often performed under pre-established or negotiated prices or cost-plus pricing arrangements. Gross margins for installation work may vary from project to project, and can be higher than maintenance work, because work obtained on a fixed price basis has higher risk than other types of pricing arrangements. We typically derive approximately 50% of our annual revenues from maintenance work, but a higher portion of installation work in any given quarter may affect our gross margins for that quarter.  

 Subcontract Work. Work that is subcontracted to other service providers generally yields lower gross margins. An increase in subcontract work in a given period may contribute to a decrease in gross margin. We typically subcontract approximately 10% to 15% of our work to other service providers.  

 Materials versus Labor. Margins may be lower on projects on which we furnish materials as our mark-up on materials is generally lower than on labor costs. In a given period, a higher percentage of work that has a higher materials component may decrease overall gross margin.  

 Depreciation. We include depreciation in cost of services. This is common practice in our industry, but can make comparability to other companies difficult. This must be taken into consideration when comparing us to other companies.  

 Insurance. Gross margins could be impacted by fluctuations in insurance accruals as additional claims arise and as circumstances and conditions of existing claims change. We are insured for employer’s liability and general liability claims, subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, and for auto liability subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence. We are also insured for workers’ compensation claims, subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, we are subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers’ compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. We also have an employee health care benefits plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, which was subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year until December 31, 2007. The deductible for employee health care benefits was increased to $350,000 per claimant per year effective January 1, 2008.  

 Effective upon the Merger, InfraSource became insured under Quanta’s property and casualty insurance program. Previously, InfraSource was insured for workers’ compensation, general liability and employer’s  

 34   
 liability, each subject to a deductible of $0.75 million per occurrence. InfraSource was also insured for auto liability, subject to a deductible of $0.5 million per occurrence. InfraSource continued to operate its own health plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements through December 31, 2007, which was subject to a deductible of $150,000 per claimant per year.  

 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related benefits to management, administrative salaries and benefits, marketing, office rent and utilities, communications, professional fees, bad debt expense, letter of credit fees and gains and losses on the sale of property and equipment.  

 Results of Operations  

 In accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” the results of operations data below does not reflect the operations of Environmental Professional Associates, Limited (EPA) in any periods since EPA’s results of operations are reflected as discontinued operations in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, the 2005 and 2006 amounts below do not agree to the amounts previously reported. The following table sets forth selected statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenues for the years indicated (dollars in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2007 compared to 2006  

 Revenues. Revenues increased $546.4 million, or 25.9%, to $2.66 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. Of the $546.4 million increase, approximately $348.4 million relates to revenues of the InfraSource operating units acquired through the Merger for the period from September 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007. The remaining $198.0 million increase is due primarily to electric power services increasing by approximately $157.3 million, or 13.7%, and telecommunications and cable television network services increasing by approximately $46.9 million, or 12.9%, offset by a slight decrease in gas and ancillary services. The increase in electric power services work is primarily due to the increased number and size of projects that are a result of larger capital budgets for our customers, approximately $24.9 million in additional  

 35   
 emergency restoration service work, and improved pricing. Revenues from telecommunications and cable television services increased primarily due to increased services related to fiber to the premises initiatives and improved pricing.  

 Gross profit. Gross profit increased $116.0 million, or 37.1%, to $428.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Of the $116.0 million increase, approximately $61.0 million relates to gross profit of the InfraSource operating units acquired in the Merger for the period September 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007. The additional $54.9 million increase in gross profit resulted primarily from increased margins associated with generally improved pricing for our services, higher productivity and good weather that favorably impacted projects in the Northeast during the summer months, higher volumes of emergency restoration service work and better absorption of fixed costs. These positive effects were partially offset by lower productivity on certain projects due to heavy rainfall in the south central United States during the second quarter and early part of the third quarter.  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $59.0 million, or 32.5%, to $240.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased from 8.6% in 2006 to 9.0% in 2007. Of the $59.0 million increase, $28.9 million relates to selling, general and administrative expenses of the InfraSource operating units acquired in the Merger for the period of September 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007. The remaining $30.1 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses resulted in part from $11.2 million in increased salaries and benefits costs associated with additional personnel, salary increases and higher performance bonuses, $5.2 million in increased professional fees primarily associated with ongoing litigation costs and $2.4 million in third-party integration costs that were incurred in 2007 as part of the InfraSource acquisition. Also included were $5.3 million in net losses on sales of equipment during 2007, as compared to $0.7 million in net gains on sales of equipment in 2006. Included in the $5.3 million in net losses in 2007 was an impairment charge of $3.5 million for assets held for sale as of December 31, 2007. As part of the Merger, management identified excess equipment among the combined operations and determined that this equipment would not be placed back into service. Additionally, we had increases in travel costs of $1.8 million and facilities costs of $1.7 million.  

 Goodwill impairment. A goodwill impairment charge in the amount of $56.8 million was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2006, while no goodwill impairment was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2007. As part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non-cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which historically served the cable television industry.  

 Interest expense. Interest expense decreased $5.3 million to $21.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, due partially to the expensing of unamortized debt issuance costs of $3.3 million during 2006 as a result of replacing our prior credit facility in June 2006 and repurchasing 80.7% of our 4.0% convertible subordinated notes in the second quarter of 2006. The 3.75% convertible subordinated notes issued in the second quarter of 2006 have a lower interest rate than the 4.0% convertible subordinated notes. Additionally, interest expense has decreased as a result of the maturity and repayment of the remaining 4.0% convertible subordinated notes on July 2, 2007.  

 Interest income. Interest income was $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $13.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase in interest income primarily relates to a higher average investment balance and higher average interest rates for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006.  

 Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $34.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, with an effective tax rate of 20.4%, compared to a provision of $47.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, with an effective tax rate of 74.3%. The lower effective tax rate for 2007 results from $34.4 million of tax benefits recorded in 2007 primarily due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from the settlement of a multi-year Internal Revenue Service audit in the first quarter of 2007 and the expiration of various federal and state tax statutes of limitations during the third quarter of 2007. Excluding the tax benefits, the effective tax rate would have been 41% for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

 36   
 The higher tax rate in 2006 results primarily from the goodwill impairment charge recorded during the fourth quarter of 2006, the majority of which is not deductible for tax purposes. Excluding the effect of the goodwill impairment charge, the effective tax rate would have been 39.2% for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

 2006 compared to 2005  

 Revenues. Revenues increased $267.4 million, or 14.5%, to $2.11 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006. Revenues for 2006 included a lower volume of emergency restoration services as compared to 2005, which included the highest volume of emergency restoration services in our history in the wake of hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region of the United States. The total revenues associated with emergency restoration services in 2005 were approximately $167.5 million as compared to $106.0 million of emergency restoration services in 2006. Excluding emergency restoration service revenues from both periods, revenues derived from electric power services increased in 2006 approximately $138.2 million, or 15.3%. Actual revenues derived from electric power services, including emergency restoration services revenues, increased approximately $76.8 million, or 7.2%. Revenues from gas network services increased by approximately $90.4 million, or 45.1%, revenues from telecommunications and cable television network services increased by approximately $39.1 million, or 12.0%, and revenues from ancillary services increased by approximately $61.1 million, or 24.9%, for the year ended December 31, 2006. These increases in revenues are primarily a result of a higher volume of work from increased spending by our customers resulting from the continued improving financial health of our customers as well as improved pricing.  

 Gross profit. Gross profit increased $58.0 million, or 22.8%, to $312.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin increased from 13.8% for the year ended December 31, 2005 to 14.8% for the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase in gross margins for the year ended December 31, 2006 was primarily attributable to higher margins on work from our electric power and gas network services and our telecommunications and cable television network services due to continued strengthening market conditions, improved pricing and our margin enhancement initiatives. Margins improved during 2006 on work from our electric power and gas network services despite the lower volume of higher margin emergency restoration services in 2006 compared to 2005, as discussed above. In addition, during the first half of 2006, we achieved higher margins on certain jobs due to better productivity and cost control and relatively mild weather as compared to the first half of 2005, which was negatively impacted by cost overruns during the period and weather delays on certain projects during the first quarter.  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $4.9 million, or 2.6%, to $181.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The $4.9 million decrease relates primarily to a decrease in professional fees in the amount of $9.9 million related to costs incurred for our margin enhancement program and for specific bidding activity during the year ended December 31, 2005 that were not incurred during the year ended December 31, 2006, as well as lower legal costs from ongoing litigation during the year ended December 31, 2006. These decreases were partially offset by an $8.5 million increase in salaries and benefits costs associated with increased personnel, costs of living adjustments and increased performance bonuses. In addition, we recorded net losses from sales of property and equipment in the amount of $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to net gains from the sales of property and equipment in the amount of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

 Goodwill impairment. A goodwill impairment charge in the amount of $56.8 million was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2006, while no goodwill impairment was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2005. As part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non-cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which historically served the cable television industry.  

 Interest expense. Interest expense increased $2.9 million to $26.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to the expense of unamortized debt issuance costs of $3.2 million. We replaced our prior credit facility and expensed the remaining balance of unamortized debt issuance costs of $2.6 million. In addition, we expensed $0.7 million of unamortized debt issuance costs related to the repurchase of a portion of our 4.0% convertible subordinated notes during the second quarter of 2006. This increase was partially  

 37   
 offset by lower interest expense associated with lower outstanding borrowings under our credit facilities during 2006 as compared to 2005.  

 Interest income. Interest income was $13.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in interest income primarily relates to a higher average investment balance and higher average interest rates for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005.  

 Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $47.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, with an effective tax rate of 74.3%, compared to a provision of $22.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, with an effective tax rate of 43.5%. The higher tax rate in 2006 results primarily from the goodwill impairment charge recorded during the fourth quarter of 2006, the majority of which is not deductible for tax purposes. Excluding the effect of the goodwill impairment charge, the impact of which is 35.1%, the effective tax rate would have been 39.2% for the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease after excluding the effect of the goodwill impairment charge is primarily due to the impact of the recording of a refund from a multi-year state tax claim during the second quarter of 2006 and the impact of tax-exempt interest income from investments in 2006, which were not held in 2005.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Cash Requirements  

 We anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, which totaled $407.1 million as of December 31, 2007, borrowing capacity under our credit facility, and our future cash flows from operations will provide sufficient funds to enable us to meet our future operating needs, debt service requirements and planned capital expenditures and to facilitate our future ability to grow. Initiatives to rebuild the United States electric power grid or momentum in deployment of fiber to the premises may require a significant amount of additional working capital. We also evaluate opportunities for strategic acquisitions from time to time that may require cash. We believe that we have adequate cash and availability under our credit facility to meet all such needs.  

 Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $195 million for 2008. Approximately $85 million of expected 2008 capital expenditures are targeted for the expansion of our dark fiber leasing network in connection with committed leasing arrangements with customers, and the majority of the remaining expenditures will be for operating equipment.  

 The 4.5% Notes are presently convertible at the option of each holder, and the conversion period will expire on March 31, 2008, but may continue or resume in future periods upon the satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. Additionally, the 3.75% Notes were convertible during the third quarter of 2007, but the conversion period expired September 30, 2007, and the 3.75% Notes are not presently convertible. The 3.75% Notes could become convertible in future periods upon the satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. If any holder of the convertible notes requests to convert their notes, we have the option to deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, with the amount of cash determined in accordance with the terms of the indenture under which the notes were issued. During 2007, $21,000 aggregate principal amount of the 4.5% Notes were settled for approximately $55,000 in cash. The difference between the principal amount and the cash paid was recorded as a loss on extinguishment of debt in the income statement.  

 On October 1, 2008, the holders of the 4.5% Notes may elect repayment, which would require us to pay, in cash, the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, of the notes held by the holders who elect repayment. As a result of the holders’ repayment right, we reclassified the $270 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 4.5% Notes into a current obligation in October 2007. Additionally, at any time on or after October 8, 2008, we may redeem for cash some or all of the 4.5% Notes at the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The holders of the 4.5% Notes that are called for redemption will have the right to convert all or some of their notes, which we may satisfy by delivery of shares of our common stock, cash or a combination thereof, as described in further detail under “Debt Instruments — 4.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes.” Currently, our common stock is trading at prices in excess of the  

 38   
 conversion price. If our common stock price exceeds the conversion price in October 2008, it is not likely that any holder of the 4.5% Notes will elect repayment on October 1, 2008, but it is likely that if we were to redeem the 4.5% Notes on or after October 8, 2008, the holders of the notes subject to redemption would convert their notes. On the other hand, if our common stock price is below the conversion price, it is more likely that the holders of the 4.5% Notes would elect repayment or would not convert upon a redemption. We have not yet determined whether we will use cash on hand, issue equity or incur additional debt to fund our cash obligation if we are required to repay or determine to redeem the 4.5% Notes. If a conversion obligation arises, we have also not yet determined whether we will settle it in our common stock, cash or a combination thereof.  

 Sources and Uses of Cash  

 As of December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of $407.1 million, working capital of $547.3 million and long-term debt of $143.8 million, net of current maturities. We also had $168.6 million of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility, leaving $306.4 million available for revolving loans or issuing new letters of credit.  

 Operating Activities  

 Operating activities provided net cash to us of $219.2 million during 2007 as compared to $120.6 million and $82.4 million during 2006 and 2005. Cash flow from operations is primarily influenced by demand for our services, operating margins and the type of services we provide. Working capital needs are generally higher during the spring and summer seasons due to increased work activity. Conversely, working capital needs are typically lower during the winter months when work is usually slower due to winter weather.  

 Investing Activities  

 During 2007, we used net cash in investing activities of $120.6 million as compared to $38.5 million and $30.6 million used in investing activities in 2006 and 2005. Investing activities in 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 included purchases and sales of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), which are classified as short-term investments, available for sale when held. We did not invest in VRDNs in the remaining quarters of 2007. Other investing activities in 2007 include $127.9 million used for capital expenditures offset by $27.5 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. During 2006 and 2005, we used $48.5 million and $42.6 million for capital expenditures offset by $10.0 million and $12.0 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. The $79.5 million increase in capital expenditures in 2007 compared to 2006 is related primarily to the growth in our business and capital expenditure requirements of our dark fiber business acquired through the Merger. Additionally, Quanta made four acquisitions during 2007. Investing cash flows in 2007 include $20.1 million related to the net impact of cash paid for the acquisitions including $12.1 million of acquisition expenses.  

 Financing Activities  

 In 2007, financing activities used net cash flow of $78.9 million as compared to $2.7 million and $13.2 million used in financing activities in 2006 and 2005. Net cash used in financing activities in 2007 resulted from a $60.5 million repayment of debt associated with the Merger and a $33.3 million repayment of the 4.0% convertible subordinated notes, partially offset by a $6.3 million tax benefit from stock-based equity awards and $10.3 million received from the exercise of stock options. The $2.7 million net use of cash in 2006 resulted primarily from a repayment of $7.5 million under the term loan portion of our prior credit facility coupled with $6.0 million in debt issuance costs, partially offset by $5.8 million in net borrowings and $4.9 million related to the tax benefit from stock-based equity awards and the exercise of stock options. The $5.8 million in net borrowings primarily relates to the issuance of $143.8 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes and the repurchase through a tender offer of $139.2 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.0% convertible subordinated notes. The $13.2 million net use of cash in 2005 resulted primarily from a $13.3 million net repayment under the term portion of our prior credit facility  

 39   
 in order to be able to issue additional letters of credit. Additionally, in 2005, Quanta received a $4.3 million cash inflow for the issuance of stock under the 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan which was terminated in 2005 and a $0.8 million cash inflow related to the exercise of stock options, partially offset by other net debt repayments of $5.0 million.  

 Debt Instruments  

 Credit Facility  

 We have a credit facility with various lenders that provides for a $475.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility maturing on September 19, 2012. Subject to the conditions specified in the credit facility, we have the option to increase the revolving commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $125.0 million from time to time upon receipt of additional commitments from new or existing lenders. Borrowings under the credit facility are to be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The entire unused portion of the credit facility is available for the issuance of letters of credit. The credit facility was entered into in June 2006 as an amendment and restatement of our prior credit facility and has since been amended as described below.  

 During the third quarter of 2007, we entered into two amendments to the credit facility. The first amendment was entered into in connection with the consummation of the Merger and was closed August 30, 2007. Among other terms, the first amendment amended the timing of (i) the requirement of Quanta and its subsidiaries to pledge certain regulated assets acquired in the Merger and (ii) the requirement of Quanta’s regulated subsidiaries acquired in the Merger to become guarantors under the credit facility. Additionally, the first amendment provided an exception to the pledge of certain licenses acquired in the Merger, added certain security interests acquired in the Merger as permitted liens, added certain surety bonds acquired in the Merger as permitted indebtedness and permitted the sale of the assets of a Quanta subsidiary. The second amendment, effective as of September 19, 2007, increased the amount of the aggregate revolving commitments in effect at the time from $300.0 million to $475.0 million and extended the maturity date to September 19, 2012. The second amendment also permitted additional types and amounts of liens and other encumbrances on our assets, indebtedness that we can incur and investments and other similar payments that we can make. Additionally, the second amendment removed a minimum consolidated net worth covenant, reduced certain other restrictions and provided the opportunity for lower borrowing rates, commitment fees and letter of credit fees under the credit facility, which are described below. We incurred $0.8 million in costs in the third quarter of 2007 associated with these amendments to the credit facility. These costs were capitalized and, along with costs incurred in connection with the amendment and restatement of the credit facility in June 2006, are being amortized until September 19, 2012, the amended maturity date.  

 As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $168.6 million of letters of credit issued under the credit facility and no outstanding revolving loans. The remaining $306.4 million was available for revolving loans or issuing new letters of credit. Amounts borrowed under the credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either (a) the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the credit facility) plus 0.875% to 1.75%, as determined by the ratio of Quanta’s total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit facility), or (b) the base rate (as described below) plus 0.00% to 0.75%, as determined by the ratio of Quanta’s total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA. Letters of credit issued under the credit facility are subject to a letter of credit fee of 0.875% to 1.75%, based on the ratio of Quanta’s total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA. We are also subject to a commitment fee of 0.15% to 0.35%, based on the ratio of its total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA, on any unused availability under the credit facility. The base rate equals the higher of (i) the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the credit facility) plus 1/2 of 1% and (ii) the bank’s prime rate.  

 40   
 The credit facility contains certain covenants, including covenants with respect to maximum funded debt to consolidated EBITDA, maximum senior debt to consolidated EBITDA and minimum interest coverage, in each case as specified in the credit facility. For purposes of calculating the maximum funded debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio and the maximum senior debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio, our maximum funded debt and maximum senior debt are reduced by all cash and cash equivalents (as defined in the credit facility) held by us in excess of $25.0 million. As of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all of its covenants. The credit facility limits certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations, capital expenditures, asset sales and prepayments of indebtedness and, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits liens on material assets. The credit facility also limits the payment of dividends and stock repurchase programs in any fiscal year except those payments or other distributions payable solely in capital stock. The credit facility provides for customary events of default and carries cross-default provisions with all of our existing subordinated notes, our continuing indemnity and security agreement with our surety and all of our other debt instruments exceeding $15.0 million in borrowings. If an event of default (as defined in the credit facility) occurs and is continuing, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the credit facility, amounts outstanding under the credit facility may be accelerated and may become or be declared immediately due and payable.  

 The credit facility is secured by a pledge of all of the capital stock of our U.S. subsidiaries, 65% of the capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets. Our U.S. subsidiaries guarantee the repayment of all amounts due under the credit facility. Our obligations under the credit facility constitute designated senior indebtedness under our 3.75% and 4.5% convertible subordinated notes. The capital stock and assets of certain of our regulated U.S. subsidiaries acquired in the Merger will not be pledged under the credit facility, and these subsidiaries will also not be included as guarantors under the credit facility, until regulatory approval to do so is obtained.  

 4.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

 As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding $33.3 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% convertible subordinated notes due 2007 (4.0% Notes), which matured on July 1, 2007. The outstanding principal balance of the 4.0% Notes plus accrued interest were repaid on July 2, 2007, the first business day after the maturity date.  

 4.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

 At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding approximately $270.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.5% convertible subordinated notes due 2023 (4.5% Notes). The resale of the notes and the shares issuable upon conversion thereof was registered for the benefit of the holders in a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC. The 4.5% Notes require semi-annual interest payments on April 1 and October 1, until the notes mature on October 1, 2023.  

 The 4.5% Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion rate of 89.7989 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 4.5% Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $11.14 per share), subject to adjustment as a result of certain events. The 4.5% Notes are convertible by the holder (i) during any fiscal quarter if the last reported sale price of our common stock is greater than or equal to 120% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the first trading day of such fiscal quarter, (ii) during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per note for each day of that period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate, (iii) upon our calling the notes for redemption or (iv) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions. If the notes become convertible under any of these circumstances, we have the option to deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, with the amount of cash determined in accordance with the terms of the indenture under which the notes were issued. During each of the quarters in 2006 and 2007, the market price condition described in clause (i) above was satisfied, and the notes were convertible at the option of the holder. During 2007, $21,000 in aggregate principal amount of the 4.5% Notes were settled in cash upon conversion by the holders. The remaining notes are presently convertible at the  

 41   
 option of each holder, and the conversion period will expire on March 31, 2008, but may continue or resume in future periods upon the satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions.  

 Beginning October 8, 2008, we may redeem for cash some or all of the 4.5% Notes at the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest. The holders of the 4.5% Notes may require us to repurchase all or some of their notes at the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest on each of October 1, 2008, October 1, 2013 or October 1, 2018, or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined by the indenture under which we issued the notes. We must pay any required repurchases on October 1, 2008 in cash. For all other required repurchases, we have the option to deliver cash, shares of its common stock or a combination thereof to satisfy its repurchase obligation. If we were to satisfy any required repurchase obligation with shares of its common stock, the number of shares delivered will equal the dollar amount to be paid in common stock divided by 98.5% of the market price of our common stock, as defined by the indenture. The right to settle for shares of common stock can be surrendered by us. The 4.5% Notes carry cross-default provisions with our other debt instruments exceeding $10.0 million in borrowings, which includes our existing credit facility.  

 In October 2007, we reclassified the $270.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 4.5% Notes into a current obligation as the holders may elect repayment of the 4.5% Notes in cash on October 1, 2008. We have not yet determined whether we will use cash on hand, issue equity or incur additional debt to fund this cash obligation in the event the holders elect repayment.  

 3.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

 At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding $143.8 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% Notes). The resale of the notes and the shares issuable upon conversion thereof was registered for the benefit of the holders in a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC. The 3.75% Notes mature on April 30, 2026 and bear interest at the annual rate of 3.75%, payable semi-annually on April 30 and October 30, until maturity.  

 The 3.75% Notes are convertible into our common stock, based on an initial conversion rate of 44.6229 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $22.41 per share), subject to adjustment as a result of certain events. The 3.75% Notes are convertible by the holder (i) during any fiscal quarter if the closing price of our common stock is greater than 130% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter, (ii) upon our calling the 3.75% Notes for redemption, (iii) upon the occurrence of specified distributions to holders of our common stock or specified corporate transactions or (iv) at any time on or after March 1, 2026 until the business day immediately preceding the maturity date of the 3.75% Notes. The 3.75% Notes are not presently convertible, although they were convertible during the third quarter of 2007 as a result of the satisfaction of the market price condition described in clause (i) above. If the 3.75% Notes become convertible under any of these circumstances, we have the option to deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, with the amount of cash determined in accordance with the terms of the indenture under which the notes were issued. The holders of the 3.75% Notes who convert their notes in connection with certain change in control transactions, as defined in the indenture, may be entitled to a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. In the event of a change in control, in lieu of paying holders a make whole premium, if applicable, we may elect, in some circumstances, to adjust the conversion rate and related conversion obligations so that the 3.75% Notes are convertible into shares of the acquiring or surviving company.  

 Beginning on April 30, 2010 until April 30, 2013, we may redeem for cash all or part of the 3.75% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if the closing price of our common stock is equal to or greater than 130% of the conversion price then in effect for the 3.75% Notes for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the trading day immediately prior to the date of mailing of the notice of redemption. In addition, we may redeem for cash all or part of the 3.75% Notes at any time on or after April 30, 2010 at certain redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Beginning with the six-month interest period commencing on April 30, 2010, and for each six-month  

 42   
 interest period thereafter, we will be required to pay contingent interest on any outstanding 3.75% Notes during the applicable interest period if the average trading price of the 3.75% Notes reaches a specified threshold. The contingent interest payable within any applicable interest period will equal an annual rate of 0.25% of the average trading price of the 3.75% Notes during a five trading day reference period.  

 The holders of the 3.75% Notes may require us to repurchase all or a part of the notes in cash on each of April 30, 2013, April 30, 2016 and April 30, 2021, and in the event of a change in control of Quanta, as defined in the indenture, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 3.75% Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. The 3.75% Notes carry cross-default provisions with our other debt instruments exceeding $20.0 million in borrowings, which includes our existing credit facility.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Transactions  

 As is common in our industry, we have entered into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business that result in risks not directly reflected in our balance sheets. Our significant off-balance sheet transactions include liabilities associated with non-cancelable operating leases, letter of credit obligations and surety guarantees. We have not engaged in any off-balance sheet financing arrangements through special purpose entities, and we do not guarantee the work or obligations of third parties.  

 Leases  

 We enter into non-cancelable operating leases for many of our facility, vehicle and equipment needs. These leases allow us to conserve cash by paying a monthly lease rental fee for use of facilities, vehicles and equipment rather than purchasing them. We may decide to cancel or terminate a lease before the end of its term, in which case we are typically liable to the lessor for the remaining lease payments under the term of the lease.  

 We have guaranteed the residual value of the underlying assets under certain of our equipment operating leases at the date of termination of such leases. We have agreed to pay any difference between this residual value and the fair market value of each underlying asset as of the lease termination date. As of December 31, 2007, the maximum guaranteed residual value was approximately $145.2 million. We believe that no significant payments will be made as a result of the difference between the fair market value of the leased equipment and the guaranteed residual value. However, there can be no assurance that future significant payments will not be required.  

 Letters of Credit  

 Certain of our vendors require letters of credit to ensure reimbursement for amounts they are disbursing on our behalf, such as to beneficiaries under our self-funded insurance programs. In addition, from time to time some customers require us to post letters of credit to ensure payment to our subcontractors and vendors under those contracts and to guarantee performance under our contracts. Such letters of credit are generally issued by a bank or similar financial institution. The letter of credit commits the issuer to pay specified amounts to the holder of the letter of credit if the holder demonstrates that we have failed to perform specified actions. If this were to occur, we would be required to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit. Depending on the circumstances of such a reimbursement, we may also have to record a charge to earnings for the reimbursement. We do not believe that it is likely that any claims will be made under a letter of credit in the foreseeable future.  

 As of December 31, 2007, we had $168.6 million in letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility primarily to secure obligations under our casualty insurance program. These are irrevocable stand-by letters of credit with maturities expiring at various times throughout 2008. Upon maturity, it is expected that the majority of these letters of credit will be renewed for subsequent one-year periods.  

 43   
 Performance Bonds  

 Many customers, particularly in connection with new construction, require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a financial institution known as a surety. These bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. If we fail to perform under a contract or to pay subcontractors and vendors, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond. We must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. Under our continuing indemnity and security agreement with the surety and with the consent of our lenders under our credit facility, we have granted security interests in certain of our assets to collateralize our obligations to the surety. We may be required to post letters of credit or other collateral in favor of the surety or our customers in the future. Posting letters of credit in favor of the surety or our customers would reduce the borrowing availability under our credit facility. To date, we have not been required to make any reimbursements to the surety for bond-related costs. We believe that it is unlikely that we will have to fund significant claims under our surety arrangements in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2007, an aggregate of approximately $926.3 million in original face amount of bonds issued by the surety were outstanding. Our estimated cost to complete these bonded projects was approximately $234.1 million as of December 31, 2007.  

 Contractual Obligations  

 As of December 31, 2007, our future contractual obligations are as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The committed capital expenditures for dark fiber networks represent commitments related to signed contracts with customers. The amounts are estimates of costs required to build the networks under contract. The actual capital expenditures related to building the networks could vary materially from these estimates.  

 Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because convertible note holders may convert their notes prior to the maturity dates.  

 As of December 31, 2007, we had no borrowings under our credit facility. In addition, our multi-employer pension plan contributions are determined annually based on our union employee payrolls, which cannot be determined in advance for future periods. As of December 31, 2007, the total unrecognized tax benefit related to uncertain tax positions was $49.3 million. We estimate that none of this will be paid within the next twelve months.  

 Concentration of Credit Risk  

 Quanta grants credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, to its customers, which include electric power and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the United States. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the United States. However, we generally have certain  

 44   
 statutory lien rights with respect to services provided. Under certain circumstances such as foreclosures or negotiated settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. Some of our customers have experienced significant financial difficulties. These economic conditions expose us to increased risk related to collectibility of receivables for services we have performed. No customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2007 or revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 or 2007.  

 Litigation  

 InfraSource, certain of its officers and directors and various other parties, including David R. Helwig, the former chief executive officer of InfraSource who became a director of Quanta after completion of the Merger, are defendants in a lawsuit seeking unspecified damages filed in the State District Court in Harris County, Texas on September 21, 2005. The plaintiffs allege that the defendants violated their fiduciary duties and committed constructive fraud by failing to maximize shareholder value in connection with certain acquisitions by InfraSource Incorporated that closed in 1999 and 2000 and the acquisition of InfraSource Incorporated by InfraSource in 2003 and committed other acts of misconduct following the filing of the petition. The parties settled this lawsuit in January 2008 and agreed to a dismissal of our material claims, although the dismissal has not yet been ordered by the court. At December 31, 2007, we had accrued a reserve for the settlement amount.  

 We are from time to time party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract and/or property damages, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we record reserves when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We do not believe that any of these proceedings, separately or in the aggregate, would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 Related Party Transactions  

 In the normal course of business, we enter into transactions from time to time with related parties. These transactions typically take the form of facility leases with prior owners of certain acquired companies and payables to prior owners who are now employees.  

 Inflation  

 Due to relatively low levels of inflation experienced during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, inflation did not have a significant effect on our results.  

 New Accounting Pronouncements  

 In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements.” SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes methods used to measure fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal periods, as it relates to financial assets and liabilities, as well as for any non-financial assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value. SFAS No. 157 also requires certain tabular disclosure related to results of applying SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. On November 14, 2007, the FASB provided a one year deferral for the implementation of SFAS No. 157 for non-financial assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 157 excludes from its scope SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment” and its related interpretive accounting pronouncements that address share-based payment transactions. We do not currently have any material financial assets and liabilities or any material non-financial assets or liabilities that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis, but we do have non-financial assets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis including long term assets held and used and goodwill. Based on the November 14, 2007 deferral of SFAS No. 157 for non-financial assets and liabilities, we will begin following the guidance of SFAS No. 157 with respect to our non-financial assets and liabilities that are  

 45   
 measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. Based on the assets and liabilities on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2007, we do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115”. SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure at fair value many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. SFAS No. 159 does not affect any existing accounting literature that requires certain assets and liabilities to be carried at fair value. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Based on the assets and liabilities on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2007, we do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 159 to have any impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Non-controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements — an amendment of ARB No. 51.” SFAS No. 160 addresses the accounting and reporting framework for minority interests by a parent company. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Accordingly, we will adopt SFAS No. 160, in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. We are currently assessing the impact that SFAS No. 160 will have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), “Business Combinations.” SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Earlier application is prohibited. Assets and liabilities that arose from business combinations which occurred prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) should not be adjusted upon the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R). SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the business combination; establishes the acquisition date as the measurement date to determine the fair value for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose to investors and other users all of the information they need to evaluate and understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. As it relates to recognizing all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, costs an acquirer expects but is not obligated to incur in the future to exit an activity of an acquiree or to terminate or relocate an acquiree’s employees are not liabilities at the acquisition date but must be expensed in accordance with other applicable generally accepted accounting principles. Additionally, during the measurement period, which should not exceed one year from the acquisition date, any adjustments that are needed to assets acquired and liabilities assumed to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date will be adjusted retrospectively. The acquirer will be required to expense all acquisition-related costs in the periods such costs are incurred other than costs to issue debt or equity securities. SFAS No. 141(R) will have no impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows at the date of adoption, but it could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the future when it is applied to acquisitions which occur in 2009 and beyond.  

 In June 2007, the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force issued EITF Issue No. 06-11, “Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards.” EITF 06-11 requires that a realized income tax benefit from dividends or dividend equivalent units paid on unvested restricted shares and restricted share units be reflected as an increase in contributed surplus and reflected as an addition to the Company’s excess tax benefit pool, as defined under SFAS No. 123R. EITF 06-11 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Accordingly, we will adopt EITF 06-11 in the first quarter of 2008. We currently do not anticipate declaring dividends in the near future, so EITF 06-11 is not anticipated to have any material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the near future.  

 In December 2007, the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) published Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 110 (SAB 110). SAB 110 expresses the views of the SEC staff regarding the use of a “simplified”  

 46   
 method, as discussed in SAB No. 107 (SAB 107), in developing an estimate of expected term of “plain vanilla” share options in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R). In particular, the SEC staff indicated in SAB 107 that it will accept a company’s election to use the simplified method, regardless of whether the company has sufficient information to make more refined estimates of expected term. However, the SEC staff stated in SAB 107 that it would not expect a company to use the simplified method for share option grants after December 31, 2007. In SAB 110, the SEC staff states that will continue to accept, under certain circumstances, the use of the simplified method beyond December 31, 2007. We are currently assessing the impact that SAB 110 will have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  

 Critical Accounting Policies  

 The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Management has reviewed its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:  

 Revenue Recognition. We design, install and maintain networks for the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries, as well as provide various ancillary services to commercial, industrial and governmental entities. These services may be provided pursuant to master service agreements, repair and maintenance contracts and fixed price and non-fixed price installation contracts. Pricing under these contracts may be competitive unit price, cost-plus/hourly (or time and materials basis) or fixed price (or lump sum basis), and the final terms and prices of these contracts are frequently negotiated with the customer. Under our unit-based contracts, the utilization of an output-based measurement is appropriate for revenue recognition. Under these contracts, we recognize revenue when units are completed based on pricing established between us and the customer for each unit of delivery, which best reflects the pattern in which the obligation to the customer is fulfilled. Under our cost-plus/hourly and time and materials type contracts, we recognize revenue on an input-basis, as labor hours are incurred and services are performed.  

 Revenues from fixed price contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method, measured by the percentage of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs for each contract. These contracts provide for a fixed amount of revenues for the entire project. Such contracts provide that the customer accept completion of progress to date and compensate us for services rendered, measured in terms of units installed, hours expended or some other measure of progress. Contract costs include all direct material, labor and subcontract costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs and depreciation costs. Much of the materials associated with our work are owner-furnished and are therefore not included in contract revenues and costs. The cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of our engineers, project managers and financial professionals. Changes in job performance, job conditions and final contract settlements are factors that influence management’s assessment of the total estimated costs to complete those contracts and therefore, our profit recognition. Changes in these factors may result in revisions to costs and income and their effects are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Provisions for the total estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made in the period in which such losses are determined. If actual results significantly differ from our estimates used for revenue recognition and claim assessments, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted.  

 We may incur costs related to change orders, whether approved or unapproved by the customer, and/or claims related to certain contracts. We determine whether there is a probability that the costs will be recovered based upon evidence such as past practices with the customer, specific discussions or preliminary negotiations  

 47   
 with the customer or verbal approvals. We treat items as a cost of contract performance in the period incurred if it is not reasonably assured that the costs will be recovered, or will recognize revenue if it is probable that the contract price will be adjusted and can be reliably estimated.  

 As a result of the Merger, Quanta has fiber-optic facility licensing agreements with various customers. Revenues earned pursuant to these fiber-optic facility licensing agreements, including initial fees, and are recognized ratably over the expected length of the agreements, including probable renewal periods. Advanced billings on fiber-optic agreements are recorded as deferred revenue on our balance sheets.  

 Self-Insurance. We are insured for employer’s liability and general liability claims, subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, and for auto liability subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence. We are also insured for workers’ compensation claims, subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, we are subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers’ compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. We also have an employee health care benefits plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, which was subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year until December 31, 2007. The deductible for employee health care benefits was increased to $350,000 per claimant per year beginning January 1, 2008.  

 Effective upon the Merger, InfraSource became insured under Quanta’s property and casualty insurance program. Previously, InfraSource was insured for workers’ compensation, general liability and employer’s liability, each subject to a deductible of $0.75 million per occurrence. InfraSource was also insured for auto liability, subject to a deductible of $0.5 million per occurrence. InfraSource continued to operate its own health plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements through December 31, 2007, which was subject to a deductible of $150,000 per claimant per year.  

 Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. If actual results significantly differ from estimates used to calculate the liability, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially impacted. As of December 31, 2006 and 2007, the gross amount accrued for self-insurance claims totaled $117.2 million and $152.0 million, with $73.4 million and $110.1 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2006 and 2007 were $10.7 million and $22.1 million, of which $5.0 million and $11.9 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $5.7 million and $10.2 million are included in other assets, net.  

 Our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 has been experiencing financial distress but is currently paying valid claims. In the event that this insurer’s financial situation further deteriorates, We may be required to pay certain obligations that otherwise would have been paid by this insurer. We estimate that the total future claim amount that this insurer is currently obligated to pay on its behalf for the above mentioned policy periods is approximately $4.5 million; however, our estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts is between $2.1 million and $7.8 million. The actual amounts ultimately paid by us in connection with such claims, if any, may vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development and the extent to which the insurer could not honor its obligations. We continue to monitor the financial situation of this insurer and analyze any alternative actions that could be pursued. In any event, we do not expect any failure by this insurer to honor its obligations to us, or any alternative actions that we may pursue, to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition; however, the impact could be material to our results of operations or cash flow in a given period.  

 Valuation of Intangibles and Long-Lived Assets. SFAS No. 142 provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized but, instead, must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their  

 48   
 useful lives. SFAS No. 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other nonamortized intangible assets for impairment. The first step compares the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is then performed. The second step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill to the fair value of the goodwill. If the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss would be recorded in income (loss) from operations in the consolidated statements of operations.  

 SFAS No. 142 does not allow increases in the carrying value of reporting units that may result from our impairment test; therefore, we may record goodwill impairments in the future, even when the aggregate fair value of our reporting units and the company as a whole may increase. Goodwill of a reporting unit will be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Examples of such events or circumstances may include a significant change in business climate or a loss of key personnel, among others. SFAS No. 142 requires that management make certain estimates and assumptions in order to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. When necessary, we engage third party specialists to assist us with our valuations. The valuations employ a combination of present value techniques to measure fair value. These valuations are based on a discount rate determined by management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. A provision for impairment could be required in a future period if future operating results and residual values differ from our estimates. Intangible assets with definite lives are also reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be realizable.  

 As part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non-cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which had historically served the cable television industry. This operating unit had transitioned to FTTN and FTTP deployments for our customers and had previously forecasted expectations to begin deployments of the broadband over power line (BPL) technology in late 2005. However, because the prospective BPL customers were still analyzing the costs and benefits of using this technology at the end of 2006, management determined the BPL work would be delayed. With the future revenue growth related to BPL delayed, and the resulting impact on projected cash flows reduced at December 31, 2006, management determined that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit was less than its carrying value and, consequently, a goodwill impairment charge was recognized. For this operating unit, the remaining unimpaired balance of goodwill is $30.3 million. This operating unit, as well as others that had previously served the cable television industry, had successfully expanded its services to include FTTN and FTTP services and therefore, currently operates with sufficient cashflows to support any remaining goodwill balances.  

 Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. Changes in our judgments and projections could result in a significantly different estimate of the fair value of reporting units and intangible assets and could result in an impairment. Variances in the assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, cost of capital, growth rates and acquisition multiples applied could have an impact on the assessment of impairments and any amount of goodwill impairment charges recorded. For example, lower growth rates, lower acquisition multiples or higher costs of capital assumptions would all individually lead to lower fair value assessments and potentially increased frequency or size of goodwill impairments. Any goodwill or other intangible impairment would be included in the consolidated statements of operations.  

 Our goodwill is included in multiple reporting units. Due to the cyclical nature of our business, and the other factors described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, the profitability of our individual reporting units may suffer from downturns in customer demand and other factors. These factors may have a disproportionate impact on the individual reporting units as compared to Quanta as a whole and might adversely affect the fair value of the individual reporting units. If material adverse conditions occur that impact our reporting units, our  

 49   
 future estimates of fair value may not support the carrying amount of one or more of our reporting units, and the related goodwill would need to be written down to an amount considered recoverable.  

 The estimated fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying value for the annual goodwill impairment test at December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we believe the goodwill is recoverable for all of the reporting units, however there can be no assurances that the goodwill will not be impaired in future periods.  

 We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be realizable. If an evaluation is required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset are compared to the asset’s carrying amount to determine if an impairment of such asset is necessary. This requires us to make long-term forecasts of the future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. Forecasts require assumptions about demand for our products and future market conditions. Since estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. Future events and unanticipated changes to assumptions could require a provision for impairment in a future period. The effect of any impairment would be to expense the difference between the fair value of such asset and its carrying value. Such expense would be reflected in income (loss) from operations in the consolidated statements of operations. In addition, we estimate the useful lives of our long-lived assets and other intangibles. We periodically review factors to determine whether these lives are appropriate.  

 Current and Non-Current Accounts and Notes Receivable and Provision for Doubtful Accounts. We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts when collection of an account or note receivable is considered doubtful. Inherent in the assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts are certain judgments and estimates relating to, among others, our customer’s access to capital, our customer’s willingness or ability to pay, general economic conditions and the ongoing relationship with the customer. Certain of our customers, several of them large public telecommunications carriers and utility customers, have experienced financial difficulties in the past. Should any major customers experience difficulties or file for bankruptcy, or should anticipated recoveries relating to the receivables in existing bankruptcies and other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current reserves. In addition, material changes in our customers’ revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them.  

 Stock-Based Compensation. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) “Share-Based Payments,” which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options, restricted stock and employee stock purchases related to employee stock purchase plans, based on estimated fair values. The effect of expensing the fair value of stock options did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations at the time of adoption through August 2007, as the number of unvested stock options remaining at the time of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) was not significant. However, concurrent with the InfraSource acquisition, we began incurring compensation expense related to the InfraSource stock options which were converted to Quanta options as of August 30, 2007. Accordingly, our stock-based compensation policy has been identified as critical to the accounting for our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations because they involve more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

 SFAS No. 123(R) requires companies to estimate the fair value of stock-based awards on the grant date using an option pricing model. We value stock-based awards using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes model is highly complex and dependent on key estimates by management. The estimates with the greatest degree of subjective judgment are the estimated lives of the stock-based awards and the estimated volatility of our stock price. The InfraSource options which were converted to Quanta options were valued at August 30, 2007 to determine our estimated future compensation expense subsequent to the acquisition. Such valuation involved using the “simplified” method of estimating the life of the stock options, which is based on the average of the vesting term and the term of the option, as a result of guidance in Staff  

 50   
 Accounting Bulletin No. 107 issued by the SEC. We determined expected volatility using the historical method, as we have not identified a more reliable or appropriate method to predict future volatility.  

 As stock-based compensation expense recognized during the current period is based on the value of the portion of share-based awards that is ultimately expected to vest, SFAS No. 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant, or on the acquisition date in the case of the InfraSource options converted to Quanta options, in order to estimate the amount of stock-based awards that will ultimately vest. The forfeiture rate used is based on historical Quanta activity. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods in our statements of operations. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of SFAS No. 123(R) in future periods or if forfeitures are different than estimated, the compensation expense that we record under SFAS No. 123(R) in future periods may differ significantly.  

 Income Taxes. We follow the liability method of accounting for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” Under this method, deferred assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the underlying assets or liabilities are recovered or settled.  

 We regularly evaluate valuation allowances established for deferred tax assets for which future realization is uncertain. The estimation of required valuation allowances includes estimates of future taxable income. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We consider projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. If actual future taxable income differs from our estimates, we may not realize deferred tax assets to the extent we have estimated.  

 We began accounting for uncertain tax positions in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, as interpretation of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes” (FIN No. 48) at January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 prescribes a comprehensive model for how companies should recognize, measure, present and disclose in their financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or to be taken on a tax return. The income tax laws and regulations are voluminous and are often ambiguous. As such, we are required to make many subjective assumptions and judgments regarding our tax positions that can materially affect amounts recognized in our consolidated balance sheets and statements of income.  

 Outlook  

 The following statements are based on our current expectations and beliefs. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.  

 Many utilities across the country have increased or are planning to increase spending on their transmission and distribution systems. As a result, we are seeing new construction, extensive pole change outs, line upgrades and maintenance projects on many systems and expect this trend to continue over the next several quarters.  

 We also anticipate increased spending over the next decade as a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the Energy Act), which requires the power industry to meet federal reliability standards for its transmission and distribution systems and provides further incentives to the industry to invest in and improve maintenance on its systems, although rule-making initiatives under the Energy Act could be impacted, both in timing and in scope, by a new presidential administration. Additionally, we expect renewable energy mandates to result in the need for additional transmission lines and substations resulting from the construction of solar and wind electric generating power plants. As a result of these and other factors, we expect a continued shift in our services mix to a greater proportion of high-voltage electric power transmission and substation projects over the long term.  

 Several industry and market trends are also prompting customers in the electric power industry to seek outsourcing partners, such as Quanta. These trends include an aging utility workforce, increased spending,  

 51   
 increasing costs and labor issues. The need to ensure available labor resources for larger projects is also driving strategic relationships with customers.  

 In the telecommunications industry, there are several initiatives currently underway by several wireline carriers and government organizations that provide us with opportunities, in particular initiatives for fiber to the premises (FTTP) and fiber to the node (FTTN). Such initiatives are underway by Verizon and AT&T, and municipalities and other government jurisdictions have also become active in these initiatives. We are also experiencing increased spending by wireless telecommunications customers on their networks, as the impact of mergers within the wireless industry has begun to lessen. In addition, several wireless companies have announced plans to increase their cell site deployment plans over the next year, including the expansion of next generation technology.  

 Spending in the cable television industry is beginning to improve. Several telecommunications companies are increasing the pace of their FTTP and FTTN projects that will enable them to offer TV services via fiber to their customers. We anticipate that these initiatives will serve as a catalyst for the cable industry to begin a new network upgrade cycle to expand its service offerings in an effort to retain and attract customers.  

 Our dark fiber leasing business is also experiencing growth primarily through the expansion into additional geographic markets, with a focus within those markets on education and healthcare customers where secure high-speed networks are important. We continue to see opportunities for growth both in the markets we currently serve and new markets. To support the growth in this business, we anticipate increased capital expenditures.  

 Gas distribution installation services are driven in part by the housing construction market. Our gas operations thus far have been minimally impacted by recent declines in new housing construction in certain sectors of the country. While these operations have been challenged by lower margins overall, we are taking steps to improve margins, including eliminating certain low margin contracts and focusing on natural gas gathering pipeline construction.  

 Historically, our customers have continued to spend through short-term economic softness or weak recessions. A long-term or deep recession, however, would likely have some negative impact on our customers’ spending. Lower spending may not automatically mean less revenue for us, as utilities continue outsourcing more of their work, in part due to their aging workforce issues. We believe that we remain the partner of choice for utilities in need of broad infrastructure expertise, specialty equipment and workforce resources. Furthermore, as new technologies emerge for communications and digital services such as voice, video and data continue to converge, telecommunications and cable service providers are expected to work quickly to deploy fast, next-generation fiber networks, and we are recognized as a key partner in deploying these services.  

 On August 30, 2007, we consummated the Merger with InfraSource, which enhances our resources and expands our service portfolio through InfraSource’s complementary businesses, strategic geographic footprint and skilled workforce. We believe the combined company will be able to better serve our customers as demand grows in their respective industries.  

 We continue to evaluate other potential strategic acquisitions of companies to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operation and grow our portfolio of services. We believe that additional attractive acquisition candidates exist primarily as a result of the highly fragmented nature of the industry, the inability of many companies to expand and modernize due to capital constraints and the desire of owners of acquisition candidates for liquidity. We also believe that our financial strength and experienced management team will be attractive to acquisition candidates.  

 With the growth in several of our markets and our margin enhancement initiatives, we continue to see our gross margins generally improve. We continue to focus on the elements of the business we can control, including cost control, the margins we accept on projects, collecting receivables, ensuring quality service and rightsizing initiatives to match the markets we serve. These initiatives include aligning our workforce with our current revenue base, evaluating opportunities to reduce the number of field offices and evaluating our non-core assets for potential sale. Such initiatives, together with realignments associated with the ongoing  

 52   
 integration of InfraSource operations and any other future acquisitions, could result in future charges related to, among other things, severance, retention, facilities shutdown and consolidation, property disposal and other exit costs.  

 Capital expenditures in 2008 are expected to be approximately $195 million. Approximately $85 million of the expenditures is targeted for dark fiber expansion and the majority of the remaining expenditures will be for operating equipment. We expect expenditures for 2008 to be funded substantially through internal cash flows or to the extent necessary, from cash on hand.  

 We believe that we are adequately positioned to capitalize upon opportunities and trends in the industries we serve because of our proven full-service operating units with broad geographic reach, financial capability and technical expertise. Our acquisition of InfraSource further enhanced these strengths. Additionally, we believe that these industry opportunities and trends will increase the demand for our services; however, we cannot predict the actual timing or magnitude of the impact on us of these opportunities and trends.  

 Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information  

 This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended to qualify for the “safe harbor” from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “believe,” “plan,” “intend” and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve or rely on a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict or beyond our control. We have based our forward-looking statements on our management’s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecasted by our forward-looking statements and that any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. Those statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 53   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements that may accompany such forward-looking statements or that are otherwise included in this report. In addition, we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to  

 54   
 update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or otherwise.  

  ITEM 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk