PART I   

  ITEM 1.    Business    

 General  

 Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading specialized contracting services company, delivering end-to-end network solutions to the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries. Our comprehensive services include designing, installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure. With operations in all 50 states and Canada, we have the manpower, resources and expertise to complete projects that are local, regional, national or international in scope.  

 On August 30, 2007, Quanta acquired, through a merger transaction (the Merger), all of the outstanding common stock of InfraSource Services, Inc. (InfraSource). For accounting purposes, the transaction was effective as of August 31, 2007, and results of InfraSource’s operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements subsequent to August 31, 2007. Similar to Quanta, InfraSource provided specialized infrastructure contracting services to the electric power, gas and telecommunications industries primarily in the United States. The acquisition enhanced and expanded our footprint, enhanced capabilities in our existing service areas and added a dark fiber leasing business that involves the leasing of point-to-point telecommunications infrastructure in select markets.  

 We believe that we are one of the largest contractors serving the transmission and distribution sector of the North American electric utility industry. Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 were approximately $2.66 billion, of which 57% was attributable to electric power work, 14% to gas work, 17% to telecommunications and cable television work and 12% to ancillary services, such as inside electrical wiring, intelligent traffic networks, fueling systems, cable and control systems for light rail lines, airports and highways and specialty rock trenching, directional boring and road milling for industrial and commercial customers. We were organized as a corporation in the state of Delaware in 1997 and since that time have made strategic acquisitions and grown organically to expand our geographic presence, generate operating synergies with existing businesses and develop new capabilities to meet our customers’ evolving needs.  

 We have established a nationwide presence with a workforce of over 15,000 employees, which enables us to quickly and reliably serve our diversified customer base. Our customers include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve.  

 Representative customers include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We believe our reputation for responsiveness, performance, geographic reach and a comprehensive service offering has also enabled us to develop strong strategic alliances with numerous customers.  

 Industry Overview  

 We estimate that the total amount of annual outsourced infrastructure spending in the four primary industries we serve is in excess of $30 billion. We believe that we are one of the largest specialty contractors  

 3   
 providing services for the installation and maintenance of network infrastructure and that we and four other large specialty contractors providing these services account for less than 15% of this market. Smaller, typically private companies provide the balance of these services.  

 We expect the following industry trends to impact demand for our services in the future, although we cannot predict the timing or magnitude of that impact:  

 Need to upgrade electric power transmission and distribution networks. The U.S. and Canadian electric power grid, which consists of more than 200,000 miles of high-voltage lines delivering electricity to over 300 million people, is aging and requires significant maintenance and expansion to handle the nation’s current and growing power needs. In addition, the grid must facilitate the sale of electricity across competitive regional networks, a function for which it was not originally designed. According to the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), industry professionals rank the aging infrastructure and limited new construction as the number one challenge to reliability of the transmission system.  

 While the grid continues to deteriorate, demand for electricity is expected to continue to grow. According to the 2008 Annual Energy Outlook published by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Energy Information Administration (EIA), population in the United States has increased by about 20% since 1990, with energy consumption increasing by a comparable 18%. The EIA also projects in the same report that total U.S. electricity sales from producers to consumers will increase by 41% from 3,660 billion kilowatt-hours in 2005 to 5,168 billion kilowatt-hours in 2030. NERC reports in its 2007 Long-Term Reliability Assessment that peak demand for electricity in the U.S., which typically occurs in the summer, is forecast to increase by 135,000 megawatts or 17.7% over the next ten years.  

 This increasing demand for electricity, coupled with the aging infrastructure, is expected to result in increased spending on transmission and distribution systems. According to an Edison Electric Institute (EEI) report published in January 2008, investor-owned utilities spent a total of $6.9 billion on their transmission systems in 2006 and plan to invest an additional $38.1 billion in their transmission systems from 2007 to 2010. This represents a 60% increase over the amount invested from 2003 to 2006. NERC projects the number of transmission miles will increase by 8.8% or 14,500 circuit miles in the U.S. over the next ten years. We believe spending levels will continue to increase as utilities work to address infrastructure maintenance requirements, as well as the future reliability standards required by the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Energy Act).  

 The Energy Policy Act of 2005. We expect the Energy Act, which was enacted in August 2005, to result in increased spending by the power industry over the next decade. Since enactment, several aspects of the Energy Act have come into effect and, as a result, have better positioned utilities to finance and implement system enhancements. The objectives of the Energy Act include improving the nation’s electric transmission capacity and reliability and promoting investment in the nation’s energy infrastructure. It provides for a self-regulating reliability organization to implement and enforce mandatory reliability standards on all market participants, with oversight by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). FERC has issued rules to provide a more favorable return on equity for transmission system owners, and it has approved incentive rates to encourage transmission expansion and help ensure reliability in certain regions of the nation.  

 A significant provision of the Energy Act is the repeal of a longstanding barrier to effective competition — the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). We believe the repeal of PUHCA opens the electricity and natural gas sectors to new sources of investment in necessary energy infrastructure.  

 We also anticipate that other aspects of the Energy Act will make investment in the nation’s transmission system more attractive and lead to a streamlined permitting process. The Energy Act provides for the designation of National Interest Electric Transmission Corridors (NIETCs) to facilitate siting of new transmission infrastructure. In October 2007, the Department of Energy (DOE) designated two NIETCs — the Mid-Atlantic Area National Corridor and the Southwest Area National Corridor. These NIETCs include two of the nation’s most populated regions with major transmission congestion — the Northeast/Mid-Atlantic region and the Southwest region. The NIETCs will be in effect for 12 years to give regional transmission owners and utilities time to evaluate, plan, and build additional transmission infrastructure in the NIETCs. In addition, in  

 4   
 November 2006, FERC issued a final rule promulgating the requirements and procedures for invoking FERC’s new “backstop” authority to issue permits to construct or modify electric transmission facilities in the NIETCs under certain circumstances. However, both DOE’s NIETC designations and FERC’s final rule regarding permitting have been challenged and are currently subject to federal court and administrative proceedings. Accordingly, the long-term effect of DOE’s NIETC designations and the transmission siting rules will depend on the results of those challenges.  

 Increased opportunities in Fiber to the Premises, or FTTP, and Fiber to the Node, or FTTN. We believe that several of the large telecommunications companies are increasing their spending, particularly for FTTP and FTTN initiatives. Initiatives for this last-mile fiber build-out have been announced by Verizon and AT&T as well as municipalities throughout the United States. Verizon has indicated that it expects to pass 18 million premises with its fiber network by the end of 2010. This equates to more than 50% of the households in Verizon’s 28-state area.  

 AT&T has also announced plans to offer internet telephone service to 18 million homes by the middle of 2008, including the installation of more than 38,000 miles of fiber at an estimated cost of $4 billion. At the end of 2006, AT&T had launched its U-verse suite of services, which includes internet protocol (IP) based television, high-speed internet access and voice services. At the end of 2007, AT&T announced a major expansion of its U-verse services, with deployment expected to reach approximately 30 million living units across 22 states by the end of 2010.  

 This fiber will deliver integrated IP-based television, high-speed internet and IP voice and wireless bundles of products and services. More than two million North American households have direct connections into high-speed fiber networks. The rate of growth in fiber to the home connections continues to increase as more Americans look to next-generation networks for faster internet and more robust video services. As a result of these efforts, we expect an increase in demand for our telecommunications and underground construction services over the next few years. While not all of this spending will be for services that we provide, we believe that we are well-positioned to furnish infrastructure solutions for these initiatives throughout the United States.  

 Increased outsourcing of network infrastructure installation and maintenance. We believe that electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television providers are increasingly focusing on their core competencies, resulting in an increase in the outsourcing of network services. Total employment in the electric utility industry declined dramatically in the last decade, reflecting, in part, the outsourcing trend by utilities. We believe that by outsourcing network services to third-party service providers such as us, our customers can reduce costs, provide flexibility in budgets and improve service and performance.  

 One of the largest issues facing utilities is the aging of the workforce. NERC estimates that approximately one in three utility workers will be 50 or older by 2010, yet there will be a 25 percent increase in demand by 2015. Many utilities look to a third-party partner to help address this issue. With more than 15,000 employees across the nation, we believe we are well-positioned to provide skilled labor to supplement or completely outsource a utility’s workforce. As a specialty contractor with nationwide scope, we are able to leverage our existing labor force and equipment infrastructure across multiple customers and projects, resulting in better utilization of labor and assets.  

 Increased capital expenditures resulting from our customers’ improved financial position. The economic health of the industries we serve continues to improve after the downturn that a number of companies, including many of our customers, suffered in past years. As a result, we believe that both capital spending and maintenance budgets have stabilized and will increase in certain key end markets. We believe, however, that it is possible that a prolonged recession could have a negative impact on our customers’ spending patterns.  

 Increased demand calls for new generation sources. Industry resources estimate that almost 50 percent of North American power generation currently relies on fossil fuels such as coal, oil and natural gas. Concerns about fuel diversification and greenhouse gas emissions are driving an increased focus on the development of renewable power sources such as wind, solar and hydro electric. Under current mandates in 25 states, clean energy must comprise up to 30 percent of a utility’s energy portfolio within the next five to fifteen years. In  

 5   
 2003, just ten states had such requirements. In a recent report published by an industry research firm, it is predicted that the U.S. wind power generation market alone will exceed 50 gigawatts of capacity by 2015 and will require capital expenditures ranging from $184 billion to $356 billion between 2007 and 2025. Due to the often remote location of renewable sources of energy, significant transmission infrastructure will be required. As renewable power resources will only fulfill a portion of the increased demand in the future, we also expect a continuation of new power generation based on traditional resources such as natural gas. We anticipate that the development of renewable power sources, together with other power generation facilities to be built, will result in an increase in demand for transmission and substation engineering and installation services.  

 Strengths  

 Geographic reach and significant size and scale. As a result of our nationwide operations and significant scale, we are able to deploy services to customers across the United States. This capability is particularly important to our customers who operate networks that span multiple states or regions. The scale of our operations also allows us to mobilize significant numbers of employees on short notice for emergency restoration services.  

 Strong financial profile. Our strong liquidity position provides us with the flexibility to capitalize on new business and growth opportunities. As of December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of $407.1 million, working capital of $547.3 million and long-term debt of $143.8 million. We also have a $475 million credit facility under which we have available borrowing capacity of $306.4 million as of December 31, 2007.  

 Strong and diverse customer relationships. Our customer relationships extend over multiple end markets, and include electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. We have established a solid base of long-standing customer relationships by providing high quality service in a cost-efficient and timely manner. We enjoy multi-year relationships with many of our customers. In some cases, these relationships are decades old. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from strategic alliances or long-term maintenance agreements with our customers, which we believe offer opportunities for future growth. For example, certain of our strategic alliances contain an exclusivity clause or a right of first refusal for a certain type of work or work in a certain geographic region.  

 Proprietary technology. Our electric power customers benefit from our ability to perform services without interrupting power service to their customers, which we refer to as energized services. We hold a U.S. patent for the exclusive use through 2014 of the LineMastertm robotic arm, which enhances our ability to deliver these energized services to our customers. We believe that delivery of energized services is a significant factor in differentiating us from our competition and winning new business. Our energized services workforce is specially trained to deliver these services and operate the LineMastertm robotic arm.  

 Delivery of comprehensive end-to-end solutions. We believe that electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television companies will continue to seek service providers who can design, install and maintain their networks on a quick and reliable, yet cost effective basis. We are one of the few network service providers capable of regularly delivering end-to-end solutions on a nationwide basis. As companies in the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries continue to search for service providers who can effectively design, install and maintain their networks, we believe that our service, industry and geographical breadth place us in a strong position to meet these needs.  

 Experienced management team. Our executive management team has an average of 30 years of experience within the contracting industry, and our operating unit executives’ average over 27 years of experience in their respective industries.  

 Strategy  

 The key elements of our business strategy are:  

 Capitalize on favorable trends in certain key end markets. We believe that we are well-positioned to capitalize on increased capital spending by customers across certain key end markets. Our strong and diverse  

 6   
 customer relationships and geographic reach should allow us to benefit from investments by, among others, electric power customers in transmission and distribution infrastructure and by large telecommunications companies in FTTP and FTTN initiatives.  

 Leverage existing customer relationships and expand services to drive growth. We believe we can improve our rate of growth by expanding the portfolio of services and solutions we can provide to our existing and potential customer base. Expanding our portfolio of services allows us to develop, build and maintain networks on a regional, national and international scale and adapt to our customers’ changing needs. We believe that increasing our geographic and technological capabilities, together with promoting best practices and cross-selling our services to our customers, positions us well for the current end market environment.  

 Focus on expanding operating efficiencies. We intend to continue to:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Expand our dark fiber network. We intend to continue to expand our dark fiber network which was acquired as part of the InfraSource acquisition. Approximately $85 million of our capital spending for 2008 is targeted for the expansion of our dark fiber network in connection with committed leasing arrangements with customers, with another $75 million estimated to be expended in 2009. The dark fiber leasing business consists primarily of leasing point-to-point telecommunications infrastructure in select markets to communication services providers, large industrial and financial services customers, school districts and other entities with high bandwidth telecommunication needs.  

 Pursue strategic acquisitions. We continue to evaluate potential acquisitions of companies with strong management teams and good reputations to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operation and grow our portfolio of services. During 2007 and from 1998 through 2000, we grew significantly through acquisitions. We believe that attractive acquisition candidates still exist as a result of the highly fragmented nature of the industry, the inability of many companies to expand and modernize due to capital constraints and the desire of owners of acquisition candidates for liquidity. We also believe that our financial strength, strong equity market position and experienced management team will be attractive to acquisition candidates.  

 Pursue new business opportunities. We continuously leverage our core expertise and pursue new business opportunities, including opportunities with renewable energy projects and in the government and international arenas. In connection with renewable energy projects, we have the capabilities to install the facilities as well as provide connectivity to the grid. We also believe that we are well-positioned to participate in power and communications infrastructure projects in the United States and overseas involving customers in both the public and private sectors.  

 Services  

 We design, install and maintain networks for the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries as well as provide various ancillary services to commercial, industrial and governmental entities. The following provides an overview of the types of services we provide:  

 Electric power network services. We provide a variety of end-to-end services to the electric power industry, including:  

    •   installation, repair and maintenance of electric power transmission lines ranging in capacity from 69,000 volts to 765,000 volts;   

    •   installation, repair and maintenance of electric power distribution networks;    

 7   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Gas network services. We provide various services to the natural gas industry, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Telecommunications and cable television network services. Our telecommunications and cable television network services include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 8   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Ancillary services. We provide a variety of comprehensive ancillary services to commercial, industrial and governmental entities, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Financial Information about Geographic Areas  

 We operate primarily in the United States; however, we derived $25.7 million, $53.6 million and $71.5 million of our revenues from foreign operations, the majority of which was earned in Canada, during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In addition, we held property and equipment in the amount of $4.9 million, $6.0 million and $9.0 million in foreign countries as of December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively.  

 Our business, financial condition and results of operations in foreign countries may be adversely impacted by monetary and fiscal policies, currency fluctuations, energy shortages, regulatory requirements and other political, social and economic developments or instability.  

 Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred Provider Relationships  

 Our customers include electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. Our 10 largest customers accounted for 30.7% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2007. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 5.1% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

 Although we have a centralized marketing strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. Our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. Many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. On an operating unit level, management maintains a parallel focus on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective customers. We continue to encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of other operating units to their customers. In addition, our business development group promotes and markets our services for prospective large national accounts and projects that would require services from multiple operating units.  

 We strive to maintain our status as a preferred vendor to our customers. Many of our customers and prospective customers maintain a list of preferred vendors with whom the customer enters into a formal contractual agreement as a result of a request-for-proposal process. As a preferred vendor, we have met  

 9   
 minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintain a high level of performance and agree to certain payment terms and negotiated rates.  

 We believe that our strategic relationships with large providers of electric power and telecommunications services will offer opportunities for future growth. Many of these strategic relationships take the form of a strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreement. Strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. Strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years that may include an option to add extensions at the end of the initial term. Certain of our strategic alliance and long-term maintenance agreements are “evergreen” contracts with exclusivity clauses providing that we will be awarded all contracts, or a right of first refusal, for a certain type of work or work in a certain geographic region.  

 Backlog  

 Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed in the future on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. Our backlog at December 31, 2005 and 2006 was approximately $1.30 billion and $1.48 billion based only on work expected to be performed over the next twelve months. At that time, we did not include estimated revenues beyond twelve months in our calculations. Our total backlog at December 31, 2007 was approximately $4.67 billion, of which $2.36 billion is expected to be performed over the next twelve months.  

 The backlog estimates above include amounts under long-term maintenance contracts in addition to construction contracts. We determine the amount of work under long-term maintenance contracts, or master service agreements (MSAs), to be disclosed as backlog as the estimate of future work to be performed based upon recurring historical trends inherent in the current MSAs, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. In many instances, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our MSAs, and many of our contracts may be terminated with notice. There can be no assurance as to our customer’s requirements or that our estimates are accurate. In addition, many of our MSAs, as well as contracts for dark fiber leasing, are subject to renewal options. For purposes of calculating backlog, we have included future renewal options only to the extent the renewals can reasonably be expected to occur.  

 Competition  

 The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large domestic companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. A significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. Accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. We believe that as demand for our services increases, customers will increasingly consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit contractors such as us. There can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We may also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, gas, telecommunications, cable television and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services a those provided by us. Although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by our customers, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future.  

 10   
 Employees  

 As of December 31, 2007, we had 1,954 salaried employees, including executive officers, project managers and engineers, job superintendents, staff and clerical personnel, and 13,307 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake at any particular time. Approximately 50% of our hourly employees at December 31, 2007 were covered by collective bargaining agreements with certain of our subsidiaries, primarily with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW). These collective bargaining agreements require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than administering the funds on behalf of these employees. These collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. The majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewal, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement.  

 We provide a health, welfare and benefit plan for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. We make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee’s contribution up to 3% of that employee’s salary and 50% of each employee’s contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law.  

 Our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. In response to the shortage, we seek to take advantage of various IBEW and National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) training programs and support the joint IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program which trains qualified electrical workers. We have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor for employees not subject to the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs.  

 We believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good.  

 Materials  

 Our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. However, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. We purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any difficulties in procuring such materials.  

 Training, Quality Assurance and Safety  

 Performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. Although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our services. Our policies require that employees complete the prescribed training and service program of the operating unit for which they work in addition to those required, if applicable, by the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs. For example, all journeyman linemen are required by the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 200 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. Certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor that prescribe training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program. Also, each operating unit requires additional training, depending upon the sophistication and technical requirements of each particular job. We have established company-wide training and educational programs, as well as comprehensive safety policies and regulations, by sharing best practices throughout our operations.  

 11   
 Regulation  

 Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses.  

 Environmental Matters  

 We are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water and groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. The presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. In addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

 From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. We believe we have complied with, and are currently complying with our environmental obligations to date and that such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance.  

 Risk Management and Insurance  

 As of December 31, 2007, we were insured for employer’s liability and general liability claims, subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, and for auto liability subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence. We were also insured for workers’ compensation claims, subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, we were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers’ compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. We also had an employee health care benefits plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, which was subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year until December 31, 2007. The deductible for employee health care benefits was increased to $350,000 per claimant per year beginning January 1, 2008.  

 Effective upon the Merger, InfraSource became insured under Quanta’s property and casualty insurance program. Previously, InfraSource was insured for workers’ compensation, general liability and employer’s liability, each subject to a deductible of $0.75 million per occurrence. InfraSource was also insured for auto liability, subject to a deductible of $0.5 million per occurrence. InfraSource continued to operate its own health plan for employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements through December 31, 2007, which was subject to a deductible of $150,000 per claimant per year.  

 12   
 Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals to be adequate. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007, the gross amount accrued for self-insurance claims totaled $117.2 million and $152.0 million, with $73.4 million and $110.1 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007 were $10.7 million and $22.1 million, of which $5.0 million and $11.9 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $5.7 million and $10.2 million are included in other assets, net.  

 Our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 is experiencing financial distress but is currently paying valid claims. In the event that this insurer’s financial situation deteriorates, we may be required to pay certain obligations that otherwise would have been paid by this insurer. We estimate that the total future claim amount that this insurer is currently obligated to pay on our behalf for the above-mentioned policy periods is approximately $4.5 million, and we have recorded a receivable and corresponding liability for such amount as of December 31, 2007. However, our estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts is between $2.1 million and $7.8 million. The actual amounts ultimately paid by us related to these claims, if any, may vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development and the extent to which the insurer could not honor its obligations. We continue to monitor the financial situation of this insurer and analyze any alternative actions that could be pursued. In any event, we do not expect any failure by this insurer to honor its obligations to us, or any alternative actions we may pursue, to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition; however, the impact could be material to our results of operations or cash flows in a given period.  

 Seasonality and Cyclicality  

 Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons and holidays. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions cause delays. The second quarter is typically better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. The third quarter is typically the best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. Revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are typically lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are completed in the fourth quarter and revenues often are impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budget before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather sometimes can cause delays and thereby reduce revenues and increase costs.  

 Working capital needs are generally higher during the spring and summer seasons due to increased work activity. Conversely, working capital needs are typically lower during the winter months when work is usually slower due to winter weather.  

 Our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines in new projects in various geographic regions in the United States. Project schedules, in particular in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided under projects, which may adversely affect us in a given quarter. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter, regional economic conditions, timing of acquisitions and the timing and magnitude of acquisition assimilation costs may also materially affect our quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter or year may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or year.  

 Website Access and Other Information  

 Our website address is www.quantaservices.com. You may obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading “SEC Filings” or through the website of the Securities  

 13   
 and Exchange Commission (the SEC) at www.sec.gov. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance and Nominating Committee are posted on our website under the heading “Corporate Governance.” We intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5.05 of Form 8-K. You may obtain free copies of these items from our website or by contacting our Corporate Secretary. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our website contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. We cannot assure you that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. No information on our website is incorporated by reference herein.  

 Annual CEO Certification  

 As required by New York Stock Exchange rules, on June 11, 2007, we submitted an annual certification signed by our Chief Executive Officer certifying that he was not aware of any violation by us of New York Stock Exchange corporate governance listing standards as of the date of the certification.  

  ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors