ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

We are a world leader in sensor systems that enhance perception and awareness. We were founded in 1978 and have since become a premier designer, manufacturer, and marketer of thermal imaging and other sensing products and systems. Our advanced sensors and integrated sensor systems enable the gathering and analysis of critical information through a wide variety of applications in commercial, industrial, and government markets worldwide.

Our goal is to both enable our customers to benefit from the valuable information produced by advanced sensing technologies and to deliver sustained superior financial performance for our shareholders. We create value for our customers by providing advanced surveillance and tactical defense capabilities, improving personal and public safety and security, facilitating air, ground, and maritime navigation, enhancing enjoyment of the outdoors, providing infrastructure inefficiency information, conveying pre-emptive structural deficiency data, displaying process irregularities, and enabling commercial business opportunities through our continual support and development of new thermal imaging data and analytics applications. Our business model meets the needs of a wide range of customers – we sell off-the-shelf products to many markets and also offer a variety of system configurations to suit specific customer requirements. Centered on the design of products for low cost manufacturing and high volume distribution, our commercial operating model has been developed over time and provides us with a unique ability to adapt to market changes and meet our customers’ needs.

This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is prepared and reported based on our reporting structure of six operating segments. For a more detailed description of our segments, see "Business Segments" within Item 1.

International revenue accounted for approximately 46 percent, 47 percent and 49 percent of our revenue in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of revenue in the future. We have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations and changing dynamics of foreign competitiveness based on variations in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies. Factors contributing to this variability include significant manufacturing activity in Europe, significant sales denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar, and cross currency fluctuations between such currencies as the United States dollar, euro, Swedish kronor and British pound sterling. The impact of those fluctuations is reflected throughout our consolidated financial statements, but in the aggregate, did not have a material impact on our results of operations in 2016.

We experience fluctuations in orders and sales due to seasonal variations and customer sales cycles, such as the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States and certain foreign governments, the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations, and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. Such events have resulted and could continue to result in fluctuations in quarterly results in the future. As a result of such quarterly fluctuations in operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance.

We expect that macroeconomic factors, including reduced spending by United States government agencies and economic weaknesses in certain geographic markets, will continue to present challenges for us and render predictions regarding future performance difficult to make.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories, goodwill, warranty obligations, contingencies and income taxes on an on-going basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates affect the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue recognition. Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, upon delivery of the product to the customer at a fixed or determinable price with a reasonable assurance of collection, passage of title and risk of loss to the customer as indicated by the contractual terms and fulfillment of all significant obligations.

34

We design, market and sell our products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products. Certain customers request different system configurations, generally based on standard options or accessories that we offer. In general, our revenue arrangements do not involve acceptance provisions based upon customer specified acceptance criteria. In those circumstances when customer specified acceptance criteria exist, revenue is deferred until customer acceptance if we cannot demonstrate that the system meets those specifications prior to shipment. For any contracts with multiple elements (i.e., training, installation, additional parts, etc.) we allocate revenue among the deliverables primarily based upon objective and reliable evidence of fair value of each element in the arrangement. If objective and reliable evidence of fair value of any element is not available, we use an estimated selling price for purposes of allocating the total arrangement consideration among the elements. In addition, judgments are required in evaluating the credit worthiness of our customers. Credit is not extended to customers and revenue is not recognized until we have determined that collectability is reasonably assured.

Allowance for doubtful accounts. Our policy is to maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Credit limits are established through a process of reviewing the financial history and stability of each customer. Where appropriate, we obtain credit rating reports and financial statements of the customer when determining or modifying their credit limits. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors. When a customer’s account balance becomes past due, we initiate dialogue with the customer to determine the cause. If it is determined that the customer will be unable to meet its financial obligation to us, such as in the case of a bankruptcy filing, deterioration in the customer’s operating results or financial position or other material events impacting their business, we record a specific allowance to reduce the related receivable to the amount we expect to recover given all information presently available. Actual write-offs during the past three years have not been material to our results of operations.

We also record an allowance for all other customers based on certain other factors including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience with individual customers. As of December 31, 2016, our accounts receivable balance of $352.0 million is reported net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $6.5 million. We believe our reported allowances at December 31, 2016 are adequate. If the financial conditions of those customers were to deteriorate, however, resulting in their inability to make payments, we may need to record additional allowances that would result in additional selling, general and administrative expenses being recorded for the period in which such determination is made.

Inventory. Our policy is to record inventory write-downs when conditions exist that indicate that our inventories are likely to be in excess of anticipated demand or are obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventories based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing requirements and alternative usages are evaluated within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our write-downs are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventories to their net realizable value and establish a new cost basis. As of December 31, 2016, our inventories of $371.4 million are stated net of inventory write-downs. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory write-downs may be required in the future.

Goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess purchase price of an acquired enterprise or assets over the estimated fair value of identifiable net assets acquired. We assess goodwill for potential impairment at the reporting unit level during the third quarter of each year, or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may exceed their fair value. We may assess qualitative factors to make this determination, or bypass such a qualitative assessment and proceed directly to testing goodwill for impairment using a two-step process. Qualitative factors we may consider include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry conditions, the competitive environment, changes in the market for our products and services, regulatory and political developments and entity specific factors such as strategies and financial performance. If there are indicators that goodwill has been impaired we proceed to a two-step impairment test, whereby the first step is comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is performed. The second step is performed if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment loss equal to the difference is recorded. Our impairment test in the current year did not indicate an impairment of goodwill in any of our reporting units.

Product warranties. Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to our customers. Our policy is to record warranty liabilities at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those 

35

warranty requirements at the time that revenue is recognized. We believe that our recorded liability of $20.8 million at December 31, 2016 is adequate to cover our future cost of materials, labor and overhead for the servicing of our products sold through that date. If actual product failures or material or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, our warranty liability would need to be revised accordingly.

Contingencies. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies arising in the normal course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals and disclosures should be adjusted.

Income taxes. We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of the assets and liabilities measured using the enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances against deferred tax assets are recorded when a determination is made that the deferred tax assets are not more likely than not to be realized in the future. In making that determination, on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis, we estimate our future taxable income based upon historical operating results and external market data. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon, but not limited to, general economic conditions, competitive pressures and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2016, we have determined that a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $2.9 million is required. If we should determine that we may be unable to realize our deferred tax assets to the extent reported, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be recorded in the period such determination is made.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions, and in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. While we believe the positions we have taken are appropriate, we have reserves for taxes to address potential exposures involving tax positions that are being challenged or that could be challenged by the tax authorities. We record a benefit on a tax position when we determine that it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. For tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained, we measure the tax position at the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized when it is effectively settled, using information that is available at the reporting date. We review the tax reserves as circumstances warrant and adjust the reserves as changes in available facts arise that affect our potential liability for additional taxes.

36

Consolidated Operating Results

The following table sets forth for the indicated periods certain items as a percentage of revenue:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________ 

(1)Totals may not recompute due to rounding.

The following discussion of operating results provides an overview of our operations by addressing key elements in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations for 2016, 2015 and 2014. Given the nature of our business, we believe revenue and earnings from operations (including operating margin percentage) are most relevant to an understanding of our performance at a segment level. Additionally, at the segment level we disclose backlog, which represents orders received for products or services for which a sales agreement is in place and delivery is expected within twelve months.

37

Revenue. Revenue for 2016 totaled $1,662.2 million, an increase of 6.7 percent from 2015 revenue of $1,557.1 million. Year over year revenue growth was primarily due to increases in our OEM & Emerging, Surveillance, and Security segments, partially offset by a decline in our Instruments segment. Acquisitions made during the year ended December 31, 2016 constitute approximately 2.1% of consolidated revenue. 

Revenue for 2015 totaled $1,557.1 million, an increase of 1.7 percent over 2014 revenue of $1,530.7 million. Year over year revenue growth was primarily due to increases in our Security and Detection segments, partially offset by declines in our Surveillance, Instruments, OEM & Emerging Markets, and Maritime segments. The revenue increase was negatively impacted by year over year changes in foreign currency rates, particularly in our Instruments and Maritime segments.

International revenue in 2016 totaled $758.6 million, representing 45.6 percent of revenue. This compares with international revenue in 2015 which totaled $726.6 million, representing 46.7 percent of revenue, and $747.0 million in 2014, representing 48.8 percent of revenue. While the sales mix between United States and international sales may fluctuate from year to year, we expect revenue from customers outside the United States to continue to comprise a significant portion of our total revenue on a long-term basis.

Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $895.0 million and $803.5 million, respectively. The increase is primarily due to the increase in revenues year over year as discussed above and changes in product mix and increased manufacturing variances and period costs.

Cost of goods sold in 2015 was $803.5 million, compared to cost of goods sold of $780.3 million in 2014. The increase is primarily due to the increase in revenues year over year as discussed above and changes in product mix. 

Cost of goods sold includes materials, labor and overhead costs incurred in the manufacturing of products and services sold in the period as well as warranty costs. Material costs include raw materials, purchased components and sub-assemblies, outside processing and inbound freight costs. Labor and overhead costs consist of direct and indirect manufacturing costs, including wages and fringe benefits, operating supplies, depreciation and amortization, occupancy costs, and purchasing, receiving and inspection costs.

Gross profit. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $767.1 million compared to $753.6 million in 2015. Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, decreased from 48.4 percent in 2015 to 46.2 percent in 2016 primarily due to changes in product mix and increased manufacturing variances and period costs.

Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $753.6 million compared to $750.4 million in 2014. Gross margin decreased slightly from 49.0 percent in 2014 to 48.4 percent in 2015 primarily due to changes in product mix and the negative impact of year over year changes in foreign currency rates. 

Research and development. Research and development expenses were $147.5 million, or 8.9 percent of revenue, in 2016, compared to $132.9 million, or 8.5 percent of revenue, in 2015, and $142.8 million, or 9.3 percent of revenue, in 2014. 

We believe that spending levels are sufficient to support the development of new products and the continued growth of the business. We expect research and development expenses to be approximately 8 to 10 percent of revenue on a long-term basis.

Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $322.4 million, or 19.4 percent of revenue, in 2016 compared to $313.5 million, or 20.1 percent of revenue, in 2015 and $332.0 million, or 21.7 percent of revenue, in 2014. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to an increase in selling expenses to support the increase in revenue mentioned above as well as increased operating expenses associated with the acquisitions of DVTEL in November 2015 and Armasight in June 2016. The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue in 2016 compared to 2015 is due to the successful implementation of cost cutting measures in 2016. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to a $15.6 million decrease in corporate expenses primarily related to 2014 legal expenses incurred for litigation matters and costs of a regulatory settlement. While selling, general and administrative expenses may be affected in the future by acquisitions with different cost structures, we anticipate selling, general and administrative expenses to increase at a slower rate than revenue in our existing businesses.

38

Restructuring expenses. During the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recorded net pre-tax restructuring expenses totaling $1.4 million, $1.4 million and $17.0 million, respectively. Restructuring expenses recorded in 2016 and 2015 were recorded in operating expenses. Of the restructuring expenses recorded in 2014, $16.4 million was recorded in operating expenses and $0.6 million was recorded in costs of goods sold. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we initiated a realignment plan that included closing six not-to-scale sites in the United States and Europe and a transfer of those operations to larger facilities. We also consolidated our optics and laser manufacturing businesses to better realize the benefits of vertical integration in these areas. The benefits from these actions are reflected in our operating results. As of December 31, 2016, we have completed the majority of the actions in our realignment plan. 

Interest expense. Interest expense totaled $18.1 million, $14.1 million and $14.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Interest expense for the year was primarily associated with the $250 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.75 percent senior unsecured notes that were repaid in July 2016, the $425 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes that were issued in June 2016, and amounts drawn under our credit facility. The increase in interest expense in 2016 compared to 2015 is primarily due to the increased amount of interest bearing debt as well as a $1.3 million loss on the extinguishment of the $250 million unsecured notes that were repaid in July 2016.

Other expense (income), net. Other expense totaled $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Other income totaled $12.6 million and $3.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The change in other expenses (income), net in 2016 compared to 2015 is primarily attributed to the gain on the sale of our cost-basis investment in a private technology company during the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Income taxes. Our income tax provision was $109.3 million, $63.8 million and $49.3 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The effective tax rates for 2016, 2015 and 2014 were 39.6 percent, 20.9 percent and 19.7 percent, respectively. The mix in taxable income between our United States and international operations has a significant impact on our annual income tax provision and effective tax rates. Our effective tax rate in 2016 is higher than the United States federal tax rate of 35 percent mainly due to discrete charges, partially offset by the mix of lower foreign tax rates. In 2016, the discrete items included $39.6 million primarily related to the European Commission’s decision regarding certain tax legislation in Belgium impacting one of the Company’s international subsidiaries. In 2015, the discrete items included a $12.1 million release of a previously recorded tax valuation allowance, and in 2014, the discrete items included a $9.4 million release of previously recorded unrecognized tax benefits that were no longer required due to closure of the applicable statute. We expect the effective tax rate for 2017 to be approximately 25 percent excluding discrete items. 

At December 31, 2016, we had United States tax net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $4.2 million which expire between 2019 and 2031. In addition, we have various state net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $27.8 million which expire between 2017 and 2033. The federal and state net operating losses were primarily generated by ICx Technologies, Inc. prior to being acquired by us in 2010. Finally, we have various foreign net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $74.3 million, a portion of which expire between 2018 and 2033 and a portion of which have an indefinite carry-forward period.

Tax benefits as described above are recorded as assets when the benefits are more likely than not to be recognized. To the extent that we assess the realization of such assets to not be more likely than not, a valuation allowance is required to be recorded. As of December 31, 2016, we have determined that a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $2.9 million is required, primarily related to certain acquired net operating losses. A review of all available positive and negative evidence is considered, including past and future performance, the market environment in which we operate, utilization of tax attributes in the past, length of carry-back and carry-forward periods, and evaluation of potential tax planning strategies, when evaluating whether the deferred tax assets will be realized.

On January 11, 2016, the European Commission announced a decision concluding that certain rules under Belgian tax legislation are deemed to be incompatible with European Union regulations on state aid. As a result of this decision, the European Commission has directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of the Company’s international subsidiaries. The Belgian Government announced they have appealed this decision and filed action for an annulment in the General Court of the European Union, and in July 2016 the Company filed a separate appeal with the General Court of the European Union. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes,” the Company recorded discrete tax expense of $39.6 million during 2016 related to this matter and on January 10, 2017, received tax assessments from the Belgium government for a similar amount, which the Company has classified as current taxes payable on 

39

the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2016. The Company has filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed.

Segment Operating Results

We have six reportable operating segments. The following discusses the operating results of each of our segments for that three year period.

Surveillance

Surveillance operating results are as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Surveillance revenue increased by 5.9 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase in revenue was primarily due to the acquisition of Armasight in June 2016. Earnings from operations decreased by 0.5 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. The decrease in earnings from operations was primarily due to a change in product mix, as we sold more products with lower gross margins in 2016 compared to 2015, and acquisition-related amortization and costs associated with the Armasight acquisition in June 2016 and the Prox Dynamics acquisition in November 2016. 

Revenue decreased by 3.3 percent in 2015 compared to 2014, primarily due to reductions in demand from United States government funded customers and decreases in airborne and integrated systems product line revenues, partially offset by an increase in revenues in the land product line. Earnings from operations increased by 14.5 percent primarily due to lower operating expenses and higher gross margins, partially offset by the decrease in revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2015, Surveillance had restructuring charges of $0.2 million, compared to $5.2 million in 2014.

Instruments

Instruments operating results are as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Instruments segment revenue decreased by 3.3 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to a revenue decline in Europe and APAC regions. On a product line basis, declines in our building and predictive maintenance and science products lines were partially offset by increases in our firefighting and automation products lines. Earnings from operations decreased 13.9% in 2016 compared to 2015. The decrease in earnings from operations was due to a change in product mix, as we sold more products with lower gross margins in 2016 compared to 2015, and increased manufacturing cost under-absorption.

Revenue decreased by 1.9 percent in 2015 compared to 2014, primarily due to a revenue decline in the Americas region, partially offset by an increase in the Asia Pacific region; on a product line basis, declines in our higher end thermography and in 

40

our optical gas imaging product lines were partially offset by increases in our science, test and measurement, and fire product lines. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 were also negatively impacted by year over year changes in currency exchange rates. The increase in earnings from operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 is primarily due to lower restructuring expenses and costs savings associated with restructuring activities. As a large portion of segment expenses are incurred in Europe, the segment experienced a favorable impact on its operating expenses from the changes in foreign currency rates which largely offset the associated decline in revenues in that region. During the year ended December 31, 2015, Instruments recorded restructuring charges of $1.2 million compared to $11.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2014.

Security

Security operating results are as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Security segment revenue increased by 5.9 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase in revenue was primarily due to the acquisition of DVTEL in November 2015 and the inclusion of the associated revenues in the current year, partially offset by a decrease in consumer-grade security products. Earnings from operations decreased 63.9 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. The decrease in earnings from operations was primarily due to acquisition-related amortization and higher operating expenses associated with the DVTEL acquisition.

Security segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased by 26.5 percent compared to the prior year primarily due to increased deliveries across all product families and in the Americas and Europe geographic regions. The increase in earnings from operations in 2015 of 13.1 percent over 2014 was primarily due to the increase in revenues, partially offset by increases in sales and marketing support operating expenses. 

OEM & Emerging Markets

OEM & Emerging Markets operating results are as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

OEM & Emerging Markets segment revenue increased by 30.5 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase in revenue was primarily due to higher deliveries in most of the segment product lines, particularly in cores and components and mobile accessories, and the acquisition of Point Grey in November 2016. Earnings from operations increased 45.3% in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase in earnings from operations is primarily due to the increase in revenue. 

Revenue decreased by 6.2 percent in 2015 compared to 2014, primarily due to the loss of approximately $8.8 million in 2014 revenue from our former optical components group which was sold in August 2014 and the negative impacts of changes in currency exchange rates. Earnings from operations declined in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to the decrease in revenue and lower gross margins, partially offset by lower operating expenses.

41

Maritime

Maritime operating results are as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Maritime segment revenue increased by 4.4 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase in revenue is primarily due to an increase in the Americas and Europe regions. On a product basis, increased shipments of multifunction displays, radar, and thermal cameras more than offset declines in autopilot and instrument shipments. Earnings from operations increased 13.3% in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase in earnings from operations is due an increase in revenue and a decrease in operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in warranty costs. 

Maritime segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 decreased by 7.6 percent compared to the same period of 2014 primarily due to the negative impact of year over year changes in currency exchange rates in the Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Since the majority of the segment's costs of goods sold are incurred in United States dollars, those costs did not receive the favorable impact of changes in currency exchange rates. Consequently, the decrease in earnings from operations in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to the revenue decline.

Detection

Detection operating results are as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Detection segment revenue increased by 7.7 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase in revenue was primarily due to increased shipments from our CBRNE threat response systems to United States government customers. Earnings from operations increased 25.8 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase in earnings from operations and operating margin were primarily due to increases in revenue and reduced operating expenses. The decrease in backlog was primarily due to significant orders for our CBRNE threat response systems that were received in the first quarter and fourth quarter of 2015 and delivered in 2016. 

Detection segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased by 34.5 percent compared to 2014. The increase in revenue was primarily due to increased deliveries of our CBRNE threat response systems and related spare parts and services against orders received in the second half of 2014 on a large program with the United States government. The increase in earnings from operations and operating margin were primarily due to the increases in revenues and higher gross margins. 

42

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At December 31, 2016, we had a total of $361.3 million in cash and cash equivalents, $98.3 million of which was in the United States and $263.0 million at our foreign subsidiaries, compared to cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2015 of $472.8 million, of which $129.6 million was in the United States and $343.2 million at our foreign subsidiaries. We intend to indefinitely reinvest the cash at our foreign subsidiaries in operations and other activities outside the United States. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents in 2016 was primarily due to $419.2 million spent on the acquisitions of Innovative Security Designs, LLC, Armasight, Inc, Point Grey Research Inc. and Prox Dynamics AS, $367.4 million spent on the repayment of long-term debt and a credit agreement, $66.0 million spent for the repurchase of our common stock, dividends paid of $65.9 million and $35.9 million spent on capital expenditures, partially offset by $524.6 million of net proceeds from long-term debt and the new credit agreement and cash provided from operations of $312.3 million. 

Cash provided by operating activities in 2016 totaled $312.3 million compared to $275.8 million in 2015 and $226.2 million in 2014. The increase in cash provided from operations in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to changes in current balances and a gain from the sale of a cost-basis investment in 2015, partially offset by a decrease in net earnings. The increase in cash provided from operations in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to the increase in net earnings. 

Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 totaled $447.8 million, consisting of $419.2 million spent primarily on the acquisitions of Innovative Security Designs, LLC, Armasight, Inc, Point Grey Research Inc. and Prox Dynamics AS, and capital expenditures of $35.9 million. Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 totaled $134.8 million, consisting of $92.3 million, net of cash acquired, for the acquisition of DVTEL, Inc. and capital expenditures of $68.2 million, partially offset by $25.6 million of proceeds from the sale of an investment in a third party. Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 totaled $49.3 million, consisting of capital expenditures of $61.3 million, offset by $12.0 million of proceeds from the sale of certain tangible assets and intellectual property related to the design and manufacturing of non-thermal micro-optics. Capital expenditures in 2015 and 2014 included $33.0 million and $19.1 million, respectively, for building improvements for our new facility in Goleta, California. 

Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 totaled $38.6 million, primarily consisting of the net proceeds from long-term debt and the new credit agreement, partially offset by the repayment of long-term debt, repurchases of common stock and the payment of dividends. Cash used by financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 totaled $166.5 million and $152.0 million, respectively, primarily consisting of the repurchase of shares of our common stock and the payment of dividends, partially offset by proceeds from shares issued pursuant to stock-based compensation plans. 

On February 8, 2011, we entered into a Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association, JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. and other Lenders. The Credit Agreement provides for a $200 million, five-year revolving line of credit. On April 5, 2013, the Credit Agreement was amended to extend the maturity of the revolving credit facility from April 8, 2016 to April 5, 2018 in addition to incorporating a $150 million term loan facility maturing April 5, 2019. On May 31, 2016, the Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the borrowing capacity to $500 million and to extend the maturity of the revolving credit facility from April 5, 2018 to May 31, 2021. The amendment also incorporated a revised schedule of fees and interest rate spreads. We have the right, subject to certain conditions, including approval of additional commitments by qualified lenders, to increase the revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement by an additional $200 million until May 31, 2021. The Credit Agreement allows us and certain designated subsidiaries to borrow in United States dollars, European euros, Swedish kronor, British pound sterling, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars and other agreed upon currencies. Interest rates under the Credit Agreement are determined based on the type of borrowing. Interest associated with borrowings can be based on either the prime lending rate of Bank of America, N.A. or the published Eurocurrency rate (i.e. LIBOR). The borrowings have an applicable margin that ranges from 0.125 percent to 2.125 percent depending on the applicable base rate and our consolidated total leverage ratio. Including the respective spreads and ignoring the effects of hedging, the one-month LIBOR interest rate was 2.145 percent per annum and the prime lending rate was 4.125 percent per annum at December 31, 2016. The Credit Agreement requires us to pay a commitment fee on the amount of unused revolving commitments at a rate, based on our total leverage ratio, which ranges from 0.150 percent to 0.300 percent of unused revolving commitments. The Credit Agreement contains two financial covenants that require the maintenance of a total leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio, with which the Company was in compliance at December 31, 2016. The credit facilities available under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. 

As noted above, the Credit Agreement amendment of April 5, 2013 incorporated a $150 million term loan facility that was scheduled to mature on April 5, 2019. On May 31, 2016, we drew down $105 million under the revolving credit facility and repaid the term loan facility in full. Interest is accrued at the one-month LIBOR rate plus the scheduled spread and paid monthly. By entering into interest rate swap agreements, we have effectively fixed the basis for calculating the interest rate on the revolving 

43

credit facility. The effective interest rate paid for the revolving credit facility is equal to the median fixed rate in the swap agreements plus the credit spread then in effect. At December 31, 2016, the effective interest rate on the revolving credit facility was 2.37 percent. Principal payments of $3.75 million, at our option, will continue to be made in quarterly installments through December 31, 2018 with the final maturity payment including any accrued interest due on April 5, 2019. 

At December 31, 2016, we had $97.5 million outstanding under the Credit Agreement and the commitment fee on the amount of unused revolving credit was 0.175 percent per annum. We had $17.9 million and $30.1 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which reduced the total available revolving credit under the Credit Agreement.

On August 19, 2011, we issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.75 percent senior unsecured notes due September 1, 2016 (the "2011 Notes"). The interest on the Notes was payable semiannually in arrears on March 1 and September 1. The proceeds from the Notes were used for general corporate purposes, which include working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions and repurchases of our common stock. The 2011 Notes were repaid on July 5, 2016.

In June 2016, we issued $425 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2021 (the “2016 Notes”). The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Notes were approximately $421.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses, which are being amortized over a period of five years. Interest on the 2016 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on December 15 and June 15. The proceeds from the 2016 Notes were used to repay the 2011 Notes in July 2016 and are being used for general corporate purposes, which include working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions and repurchases of our common stock.

On February 5, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2016, an aggregate of 6.3 million shares had been repurchased under this authorization, which expired on February 5, 2017. On February 8, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock. This authorization will expire on February 8, 2019.

United States income taxes have not been provided for on accumulated earnings of certain subsidiaries outside of the United States as we currently intend to reinvest the earnings in operations outside the United States indefinitely. Should we subsequently elect to repatriate such foreign earnings, we would need to accrue and pay United States income taxes, thereby reducing the amount of our cash.

We believe that our existing cash combined with the cash we anticipate generating from operating activities, and our available credit facilities and financing available from other sources will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months. We do not have any significant commitments nor are we aware of any significant events or conditions that are likely to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2016, we leased our non-owned facilities under operating lease agreements. We also leased certain operating machinery and equipment and office equipment under operating lease agreements. Except for these operating lease agreements, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

44

Contractual Obligations

As of December 31, 2016, our contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Principal and interest on long-term debt, operating leases and licensing rights obligations are based upon contractual terms. Revolving credit facility assumed to be held to maturity with interest paid at the effective rate in effect at December 31, 2016. Actual payments may differ in terms of both timing and amounts. We did not include approximately $17.9 million of standby letters of credit and performance bonds due to the unlikely event of payment, if any, of amounts under those arrangements.

Aside from the discrete tax charge of $39.6 million recorded in 2016 related to the Belgian tax assessment, the Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of potential cash settlement of its remaining unrecognized tax benefits of $12.3 million and, therefore, has not included the related unrecognized tax benefits in the table of contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016. For further detail on unrecognized tax benefits, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

45

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK