Item 1A. Risk Factors   

Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by Regions, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on Regions. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause Regions’ actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Regions.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by recent conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.  

The capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption over the last two years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the economic slowdown that the United States has been experiencing, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly.  

A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business:  

   •    A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us;  

   •    A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate;  

   •    An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill;  

   •    A decrease in interest income from variable rate loans, due to potential reductions in interest rates;  

   •    A decrease in non-interest income due to pending regulatory changes;  

   •    An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.  

Overall, during the past two years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected.  

Recent market developments may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.  

Dramatic declines in the housing market during prior years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions.  

This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry.  

19  

Table of Contents 

Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets and/or place limitations on business activities related to credit support provided to customers.  

The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. During 2009, all of the major ratings agencies downgraded Regions and Regions Bank’s credit ratings. In addition, many of our ratings remain on negative watch or negative outlook. Negative outlook, negative watch and other similar terms mean that a future downgrade is possible. The ratings assigned to Regions and Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any ratings agency will take action to downgrade Regions, Regions Bank or both in the future.  

In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. In addition, ratings agencies have themselves been subject to scrutiny arising from the financial crisis such that the rating agencies may make or may be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices. Such changes may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of our securities or other securities in which we have an economic interest. Any decrease, or potential decrease, in credit ratings could impact our access to the capital markets or short-term funding and/or increase our financing costs, and thereby adversely affect Regions’ liquidity and financial condition. Where Regions Bank is providing forms of credit support such as letters of credit, standby lending arrangements or other forms of credit support, a decline in short-term credit ratings may require that customers of Regions Bank seek replacement credit support from a higher rated institution. We cannot predict whether customer relationships or opportunities for future relationships could be adversely affected by customers who choose to do business with a higher rated institution.  

Currently, Regions’ Senior ratings from Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investor Services, Fitch Ratings and DBRS are 2, 1, 3 and 4 notches, respectively, above non-investment grade ratings. A downgrade of Regions to a non-investment grade rating by one or more of the ratings agencies could significantly affect our ability to borrow funds and raise additional capital and our cost of capital. The market for non-investment grade securities is much smaller and less liquid than for investment grade securities. Our counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade and may be less likely to engage in transactions with us, or may only engage in them at a substantially higher cost, if our ratings were downgraded to below investment grade. The effect of such downgrades in our derivative positions is discussed in Note 21 “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our credit ratings are discussed in greater detail under the “Credit Ratings” section of Item 6. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

The value of our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our operating results and capital ratios.  

As of December 31, 2009, Regions had approximately $950 million in net deferred tax assets essentially all of which was disallowed when calculating Tier 1 capital. Applicable banking regulations permit us to include these deferred tax assets, up to a maximum amount, when calculating Regions’ Tier 1 capital to the extent these assets will be realized based on future projected earnings within one year of the calendar year end. The ability to realize these deferred tax assets during any year also includes the ability to apply these assets to offset any taxable income during the two previous years. Unless we anticipate generating sufficient taxable income in the future, we may be unable to include additional amounts related to our deferred tax assets as part of our Tier 1 capital. The inability to include future increases of deferred tax assets in our Tier 1 capital could significantly reduce our regulatory capital ratios. Additionally, if the entire amount of our deferred tax assets is disallowed, any prospective taxable loss will reduce Tier 1 capital without any related income tax benefit.  

Additionally, our deferred tax assets are subject to an evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that they will be realized for financial statement purposes. In making this determination we consider all positive and negative evidence available including the impact of recent operating results as well as potential carryback of tax  

20  

Table of Contents 

 to prior years’ taxable income, reversals of existing temporary differences, tax planning strategies and projected earnings within the statutory tax loss carryover period. We have determined that the deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized at December 31, 2009. If we were to conclude that our deferred tax assets were not more likely than not to be realized, then we would record a valuation allowance which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial position.  

Further disruptions in the residential real estate market could adversely affect our performance.  

As of December 31, 2009, residential homebuilder loans, home equity loans secured by second liens in Florida and condominium loans represented approximately 7.6% of our total loan portfolio. These portions of our loan portfolio have been under pressure for over two years and, due to weakening credit quality, we increased our loan loss provision and our total allowance for credit losses. In addition, we have implemented several measures to support the management of these sections of the loan portfolio, including reassignment of experienced, key relationship managers to focus on work-out strategies for distressed borrowers.  

While we expect that these actions will help mitigate the overall effects of the downward credit cycle, the weaknesses in these sections of our loan portfolio are expected to continue well into 2010. Accordingly, it is anticipated that our non-performing asset and charge-off levels will remain elevated.  

Further, the effects of recent mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing decrease in residential real estate market prices and demand, could result in further price reductions in home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the residential real estate and construction loans that we hold, as well as loan originations and gains on sale of real estate and construction loans. Specifically, a significant portion of our residential mortgages and commercial real estate loan portfolios are composed of borrowers in the Southeastern United States, in which certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. For example, prices of Florida properties remain under significant pressure, with rising unemployment levels and the impact of the real estate downturn on the general economy. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own upon foreclosing a loan.  

Continuing weakness in the commercial real estate market could adversely affect our performance.  

The fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector remain weak, under continuing pressure by reduced asset values, rising vacancies and reduced rents. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 23.9% of our loan portfolio consisted of investor real estate loans. The properties securing investor income-producing loans are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan. Properties securing the land, single-family and condominium loans continue to be impacted by declining property values, especially in areas where Regions has significant lending activities, including Florida and north Georgia. The borrower’s ability to repay the loan is instead reliant upon additional leasing through the life of the loan or the borrower’s successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower’s business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space are expected to continue to rise in 2010. Increased vacancies could result in rents falling further over the next several quarters. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in the fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market and the deterioration of one or more loans we have made. Any such deterioration could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

21  

Table of Contents 

Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated.  

Our success depends to a certain extent on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by Regions Bank in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on Regions Bank’s commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of these geographical areas for over two years have had a negative impact on the financial results of our banking operations and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services.  

Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases.  

Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.  

Technology and other changes are allowing parties to use alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits.  

Improvements in economic indicators disproportionately affecting the financial services industry may lag improvements in the general economy.  

Should the stabilization of the U.S. economy lead to a general economic recovery, the improvement of certain economic indicators, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly. For example, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by twelve to eighteen months. Our clients include entities active in these industries. Furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, we could be adversely affected.  

Negative perceptions associated with our continued participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors and compete for new business opportunities.  

On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (the “EESA”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The United  

22  

Table of Contents 

 States Department of the Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”) and federal banking regulators have implemented a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”).  

On November 14, 2008, we issued and sold 3,500,000 shares of Regions’ Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (“Series A Preferred Stock”) and a warrant to purchase up to 48,253,677 shares of our common stock to the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP. Several financial institutions which also participated in the CPP received approval from the U.S. Treasury to exit the program during the second half of 2009. These institutions have, or are in the process of, repurchasing the preferred stock and repurchasing or auctioning the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP. We have not yet requested the U.S. Treasury’s approval to repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock and warrant from the U.S. Treasury. In order to repurchase one or both securities, in whole or in part, we must establish that we have satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the U.S. Treasury. There can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase these securities from the U.S. Treasury. Our customers, employees and counterparties in our current and future business relationships may draw negative implications regarding the strength of Regions as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the CPP following the exit of one or more of our competitors or other financial institutions. Any such negative perceptions may impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  

The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA and its implementing regulations may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees.  

Because we have not yet repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment, we remain subject to the restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”). On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury released its interim final rule implementing the provisions of the ARRA and limiting the compensation practices at institutions in which the U.S. Treasury is invested. Financial institutions which have repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the ARRA and its implementing regulations. Due to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have repurchased the U.S. Treasury’s investment to retain and attract high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  

Our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s CPP imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and access the equity capital markets.  

Prior to November 14, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock purchased by the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the agreement pursuant to which such securities were sold, among other things, limits the payment of dividends on our common stock to a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share without prior regulatory approval, limits our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards), and grants the holders of such securities certain registration rights which, in certain circumstances, impose lock-up periods during which we would be unable to issue equity securities. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. In addition, unless we are able to redeem the preferred stock prior to November 15, 2013, the dividends on the preferred stock will increase substantially, from 5% ($175 million annually) to 9% ($315 million annually).  

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and  

23  

Table of Contents 

 counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations.  

The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state law. We are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”), the Federal Deposit Insurance Company (the “FDIC”) and the Superintendent of Banking of the State of Alabama. These regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance fund, and not our shareholders. These regulations govern matters ranging from the regulation of certain debt obligations, changes in the control of bank holding companies and state-chartered banks, and the maintenance of adequate capital to the general business operations and financial condition of Regions Bank, including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, to the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law. Additionally, certain subsidiaries of Regions and Regions Bank, such as Morgan Keegan, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities and insurance regulators. We are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous review and frequently change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, Regions Bank and our subsidiaries. Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under the “Capital Ratios” section of Item 6. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings.  

During 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the DIF. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks: deposit accounts are currently insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and non-interest bearing transactional accounts at institutions, such as Regions Bank, participating in the Transaction Account Guarantee Program are currently fully insured (unlimited coverage). These programs have placed additional stress on the DIF.  

In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund.  

We may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Further, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC requested comments on a proposed rule tying assessment rates of FDIC-insured  

24  

Table of Contents 

 institutions to the institution’s employee compensation programs. The exact requirements of such a rule are not yet known, but such a rule could increase the amount of premiums Regions must pay for FDIC insurance. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings.  

Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on Regions’ operations.  

Recent events in the financial services industry and, more generally, in the financial markets and the economy, have led to various proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry. Earlier in 2009, legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry was introduced in the U.S. Congress. Among other things, the legislation proposes the establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would have broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Additional legislative proposals call for heightened scrutiny and regulation of any financial firm whose combination of size, leverage, and interconnectedness could, if it failed, pose a threat to the country’s financial stability, including the power to restrict the activities of such firms and even require the break-up of such firms at the behest of the relevant regulator. New rules have also been proposed for the securitization market, including requiring sponsors of securitizations to retain a material economic interest in the credit risk associated with the underlying securitization.  

Other recent initiatives also include:  

   •    the Federal Reserve’s proposed guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations and the FDIC’s proposed rules tying employee compensation to assessments for deposit insurance;  

   •    the current administration’s announcement of a proposed “Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee” for banks, such as Regions, with greater than $50 billion in assets and the current administration’s proposed limits on the size and risks taken by large U.S. banks;  

   •    proposals to limit a lender’s ability to foreclose on mortgages or make such foreclosures less economically viable, including by allowing Chapter 13 bankruptcy plans to “cram down” the value of certain mortgages on a consumer’s principal residence to its market value and/or reset interest rates and monthly payments to permit defaulting debtors to remain in their home;  

   •    proposed legislation concerning the comprehensive regulation of the “over-the-counter” derivatives market, including robust and comprehensive prudential supervision (including strict capital and margin requirements) for all “over-the-counter” derivative dealers and major market participants and central clearing of standardized “over-the-counter” derivatives; and  

   •    the “Volcker Rule” proposed by the current administration which would prohibit banks and bank holding companies from engaging in proprietary trading or owning, investing or sponsoring a hedge fund or private equity fund.  

While there can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory or legislative changes will ultimately be adopted, any such changes, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities, require we change certain of our business practices, require us to divest certain business lines, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes, and could therefore also adversely affect our business and operations.  

We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.  

We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. In particular, as of December 31, 2009, we have approximately $2.3 billion in senior notes and senior bank notes which will mature during 2010. Our ability to  

25  

Table of Contents 

 raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The ongoing economic slowdown and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including, but not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve.  

We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.  

We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. Due in large part to the significant loss recorded at Regions Bank during the fourth quarter of 2008 and losses during 2009, under the Federal Reserve’s rules, Regions Bank does not expect to be able to pay dividends to us in the near term without first obtaining regulatory approval. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the “Stockholders’ Equity” section of Item 6. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.  

If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected.  

As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporate borrowers and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets.  

We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions.  

We are exposed to intangible asset risk; specifically, our goodwill may become impaired.  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we determined that a portion of our goodwill was impaired and recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the  

26  

Table of Contents 

 business climate or slower growth rates could result in further impairment of goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge, which could be materially adverse to our operating results and financial position. For further discussion, see Notes 1 and 9, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and “Intangible Assets”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance.  

Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities.  

Our current one-year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive, meaning that an immediate or gradual increase in interest rates would likely have a positive cumulative impact on Regions’ twelve-month net interest income. Alternatively, an immediate or gradual decrease in rates over a twelve-month period would likely have a negative impact on twelve-month net interest income. However, like most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the “Net Interest Income and Margin” and “Interest Rate Risk” sections of Item 6. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions.  

Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities.  

The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. See the “Securities” section of Item 6. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Hurricanes and other weather-related events could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.  

A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of  

27  

Table of Contents 

 our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of any collateral held by us. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The severity and impact of future hurricanes, droughts and other weather-related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes, droughts and other weather-related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

We have been the subject of increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation.  

We and certain of our subsidiaries have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to their business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We and certain of our subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding their business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  

In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders.  

Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us or our subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant harm to our reputation. Additional information relating to litigation affecting Regions and our subsidiaries is discussed in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success.  

Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, Regions’ ability to market its products and services may be adversely affected.  

Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability.  

The results of operations of Regions are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open-market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, ongoing military operations in the Middle East or elsewhere around the world, including those in response to terrorist attacks, may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects.  

28  

Table of Contents 

We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands.  

The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.  

We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can result in negative public opinion about our other business. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings.  

If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.  

Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially.  

We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.  

Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by  

29  

Table of Contents 

 these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations.  

Our reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates.  

Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.  

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill and other intangible asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued tax liability.  

Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.  

From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements.  

We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.  

In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects on the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations.  

We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property.  

In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous  

30  

Table of Contents 

 or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach.  

We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.  

The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate.  

The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by:  

   •    Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors;  

   •    Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally;  

   •    Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations;  

   •    The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us;  

   •    Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors;  

   •    Expectations of or actual equity dilution;  

   •    Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and  

   •    Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility.  

Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.  

We may not pay dividends on your common stock.  

Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail in the “Stockholders’ Equity” section of Item 6. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of  

31  

Table of Contents 

 Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future.  

We may elect, and shall elect if so instructed by the Federal Reserve, to accelerate the conversion date of our outstanding shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock.  

We may elect in our sole discretion (but if so directed by the Federal Reserve, we shall elect), to accelerate the conversion of all or a portion of the outstanding shares of our 10% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B (“Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock”) into shares of our common stock upon not less than 45 and not more than 60 days’ prior written notice. Any acceleration of the conversion date could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Such a conversion of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock would also dilute our existing shareholders.  

Anti-takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value.  

Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our board of directors’ approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer “controls” the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under Item 1. “Supervision and Regulation,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer.  

Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of your ownership.  

We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders.  

Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios.  

Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may also be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by “5% shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50% over a rolling three-year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions’ stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our net income and Tier 1 capital.  

32  

Table of Contents 

We have a limited number of authorized shares of our common stock available for future issuance.  

Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, we have 1.5 billion shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, authorized for issuance. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 1.2 billion shares of common stock issued and outstanding, net of treasury shares and had reserved approximately 216 million shares for future issuance. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 90 million shares of common stock available for future issuance. The approximately 216 million shares reserved for issuance, include the reservation of the maximum amount of shares that can be issued upon the conversion of the outstanding shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (approximately 107 million shares) and exercise of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury (approximately 48 million shares). The actual number of shares that would be issued in any conversion or exercise may be less than the maximum number and will depend on our stock price at the date of conversion or exercise. If we do not issue the maximum amount of reserved shares, the remaining shares will again be available for issuance. We occasionally issue additional shares of common stock for general corporate purposes, including raising Tier 1 common equity. Although we may be able to raise Tier 1 common equity by issuing contingent convertible preferred stock or other securities convertible or exchangeable for common stock on a contingent basis, an insufficient number of authorized shares available for future issuance could adversely affect our ability to opportunistically raise additional equity capital, fund future operations or mergers and attract and retain key personnel. We currently have approximately 6 million shares of preferred stock available for issuance under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  

Under Delaware law, stockholder approval is required in order to amend our Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock. We anticipate including such a proposal for consideration at our next annual meeting of stockholders; however, we cannot provide any assurances that our stockholders will approve any such proposal.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

None.  

 Item 2. Properties