Item 7. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

We, as members of the Management of Regions Financial Corporation (the “Company”), are responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Regions’ internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Company’s management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of the Company’s financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified.  

All internal controls systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements in the Company’s financial statements, including the possibility of circumvention or overriding of controls. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Regions’ management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in its Internal Control—Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment, we believe and assert that, as of December 31, 2009, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.  

Regions’ independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on the following page.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

110  

Table of Contents 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION  

We have audited Regions Financial Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Regions Financial Corporation’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

In our opinion, Regions Financial Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria.  

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Regions Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 of Regions Financial Corporation and our report dated February 22, 2010, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  

Birmingham, Alabama  

February 22, 2010  

111  

Table of Contents 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION  

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Regions Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Regions Financial Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Regions Financial Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 22, 2010, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  

Birmingham, Alabama  

February 22, 2010  

112  

Table of Contents 

REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

113  

Table of Contents 

REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Includes $266 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 of gross charges, net of $191 million of non-credit portion reported in other comprehensive income (loss). For 2008 and 2007, there was no non-credit component. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

114  

Table of Contents 

REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

115  

Table of Contents 

REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY—Continued  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) See disclosure of reclassification adjustment amount and tax effect, as applicable, in Note 15 to consolidated financial statements.  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

116  

Table of Contents 

REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

117  

Table of Contents 

REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Regions Financial Corporation (“Regions” or “the Company”) provides a full range of banking and bank-related services to individual and corporate customers through its subsidiaries and branch offices located primarily in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Company is subject to competition from other financial institutions, is subject to the regulations of certain government agencies and undergoes periodic examinations by those regulatory authorities.  

The accounting and reporting policies of Regions and the methods of applying those policies that materially affect the accompanying consolidated financial statements conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) and with general financial services industry practices. In preparing the financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the balance sheet dates and revenues and expenses for the periods shown. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used in the consolidated financial statements including, but not limited to, the estimates and assumptions related to the allowance for credit losses, intangibles, mortgage servicing rights and income taxes.  

Regions has evaluated all subsequent events for potential recognition and disclosure through February 22, 2010, the date of the filing of this Form 10-K.  

Certain amounts in prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation, except as otherwise noted. These reclassifications are immaterial and have no effect on net income (loss), total assets or stockholders’ equity.  

BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION  

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Regions, its subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities (“VIEs”). Significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Regions considers a voting rights entity to be a subsidiary and consolidates it if Regions has a controlling financial interest in the entity. VIEs are consolidated if Regions is exposed to the majority of the VIEs’ expected losses and/or residual returns (i.e., Regions is considered to be the primary beneficiary). Unconsolidated investments in voting rights entities or VIEs in which Regions has significant influence over operating and financing decisions (usually defined as a voting or economic interest of 20% to 50%) are accounted for using the equity method. Unconsolidated investments in voting rights entities or VIEs in which Regions has a voting or economic interest of less than 20% are generally carried at cost. See Note 2 for further discussion of VIEs.  

CASH AND CASH FLOWS  

Cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits in other banks, and federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). Cash flows from loans, either originated or acquired, are classified at that time according to management’s original intent to either sell or hold the loan for the foreseeable future. When management’s intent is to sell the loan, the cash flows of that loan are presented as operating cash flows. When management’s intent is to hold the loan for the foreseeable future, the cash flows of that loan are presented as investing cash flows.  

118  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes supplemental cash flow information for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

TRADING ACCOUNT ASSETS  

Trading account assets, which are primarily held for the purpose of selling at a profit, consist of debt and marketable equity securities and are carried at estimated fair value. Gains and losses, both realized and unrealized, are included in brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income.  

SECURITIES PURCHASED UNDER AGREEMENTS TO RESELL AND SECURITIES SOLD UNDER AGREEMENTS TO REPURCHASE  

Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are generally treated as collateralized financing transactions and are recorded at estimated fair value plus accrued interest. It is Regions’ policy to take possession of securities purchased under resell agreements.  

SECURITIES  

Management determines the appropriate classification of debt and equity securities at the time of purchase and periodically re-evaluates such designations. Debt securities are classified as securities held to maturity when the Company has the intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Securities held to maturity are stated at amortized cost. Debt securities not classified as securities held to maturity or trading account assets and marketable equity securities not classified as trading account assets are classified as securities available for sale. Securities available for sale are stated at estimated fair value with changes in unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported as a component of other comprehensive income (loss). See Note 22 for discussion of determining fair value.  

The amortized cost of debt securities classified as securities held to maturity and securities available for sale is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity, or in the case of mortgage-backed securities, over the estimated life of the security, using the effective yield method. Such amortization or accretion is included in interest income on securities. Realized gains and losses are included in net securities gains (losses). The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.  

The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other-than-temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions’ intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. Activity related to the credit loss component of other-than-temporary impairment is recognized in earnings. For debt securities, the portion of other-than-temporary impairment related to all other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income. See Note 4 for discussion and details of other-than-temporary impairment.  

119  

Table of Contents 

LOANS HELD FOR SALE  

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, loans held for sale included commercial loans, investor real estate loans, residential real estate mortgage loans and student loans. Commercial and investor real estate loans held for sale consist of certain non-performing loans for which management has the intent to sell in the near term. Regions primarily classifies new residential real estate mortgage loans as held for sale based on intent, which is determined when the loans are underwritten. Residential real estate mortgage loans not designated as held for sale are retained based on available liquidity, interest rate risk management and other business purposes. Regions elected the fair value option for residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale originated after January 1, 2008. Student loans held for sale include certain loans for which management has the intent to sell in the near term. Commercial and investor real estate loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value, and student loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or estimated fair value. See Note 22 for discussion of determining fair value. Gains and losses on commercial, investor real estate and student loans held for sale are included in other non-interest expense. Gains and losses on residential mortgage loans held for sale are included in mortgage income.  

LOANS  

Loans are carried at the principal amount outstanding, net of premiums, discounts, unearned income and deferred loan fees and costs. Interest income on loans is accrued based on the principal amount outstanding, except for those loans classified as non-accrual. Non-refundable loan origination and commitment fees, net of direct costs of originating or acquiring loans, are deferred and recognized over the estimated lives of the related loans as an adjustment to the loans’ effective yield.  

Regions engages in both direct and leveraged lease financing. The net investment in direct financing leases is the sum of all minimum lease payments and estimated residual values, less unearned income. Unearned income is recognized over the terms of the leases to produce a level yield. The net investment in leveraged leases is the sum of all lease payments (less non-recourse debt payments), plus estimated residual values, less unearned income. Income from leveraged leases is recognized over the term of the leases based on the unrecovered equity investment.  

Loans are placed on non-accrual status when management has determined that full payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and/or interest unless the loan is well-secured and in the process of collection. When a commercial loan is placed on non-accrual status, uncollected interest accrued in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on commercial loans placed on non-accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses. When a consumer loan is placed on non-accrual status, all uncollected interest accrued is reversed and charged to interest income. Charge-offs on commercial loans occur when available information confirms the loan is not fully collectible and the loss is reasonably quantifiable. Consumer loans are subject to mandatory charge-off at a specified delinquency date consistent with regulatory guidelines. Interest collections on non-accrual loans for which the ultimate collectability of principal is uncertain are applied as principal reductions. In certain limited situations, if management concludes that all principal is ultimately collectible, collections on non-accrual loans are applied to principal and interest. Regions determines past due or delinquency status of a loan based on contractual payment terms.  

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  

Through provisions charged directly to expense, Regions has established an allowance for credit losses (“allowance”). This allowance is comprised of two components: the allowance for loan losses, which is a contra-asset to loans, and a reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. The allowance is reduced by actual losses and increased by recoveries, if any. Regions charges losses against the allowance in the period the loss is confirmed.  

120  

Table of Contents 

The allowance is maintained at a level believed adequate by management to absorb probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance is a quarterly process and is based on an evaluation of the loan portfolio, historical loan loss experience, current economic conditions, collateral values of properties securing loans, volume, growth, quality and composition of the loan portfolio, regulatory guidance, and other relevant factors. Unfavorable changes in any of these, or other factors, or the availability of new information, could require that the allowance be adjusted in future periods. Actual losses could vary from management’s estimates. No portion of the resulting allowance is allocated to any individual credits or group of credits except for specific reserves required by authoritative accounting literature. The remaining allowance is available to absorb losses from any and all loans.  

Regions’ assessment of allowance levels is determined in accordance with GAAP and regulatory guidelines. In determining the allowance, management uses information to stratify the loan portfolio into loan pools with common risk characteristics. Loan pools in the portfolio are assigned estimated allowance amounts of loss based on various factors and analyses, including but not limited to, current and historical loss experience trends and levels of problem credits, current economic conditions, changes in product mix and underwriting. Loans deemed to be impaired include non-accrual loans, excluding consumer loans, and troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”). Impaired loans, excluding consumer loans, with outstanding balances greater than $2.5 million are evaluated individually rather than on a pool basis as described above. For these loans, Regions measures the level of impairment based on the present value of the estimated projected cash flows, the estimated value of the collateral or, if available, the observable market price. Regions generally uses the estimated projected cash flow method to measure impairment. For consumer TDRs, Regions measures the level of impairment based on pools of loans stratified by common risk characteristics.  

In order to estimate a reserve for unfunded commitments, Regions uses a process consistent with that used in developing the allowance for loan losses. Regions estimates future fundings, which are less than the total unfunded commitment amounts, based on historical funding experience. Allowance for loan loss factors, which are based on product and customer type and are consistent with the factors used for portfolio loans, are applied to these funding estimates to arrive at the reserve balance. Changes in the reserve for unfunded commitments are recognized in other non-interest expense.  

ACCOUNTING FOR TRANSFERS AND SERVICING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS  

Regions historically sold receivables, such as commercial loans, residential mortgage loans and dealer loans, in securitizations and to third parties, including conduits. When Regions sold these receivables, it retained a continuing interest in the form of interest-only strips, one or more subordinated tranches, servicing rights and/or cash reserve accounts. These retained interests were initially recognized based on their respective allocated cost basis on the date of transfer. Any gain or loss on the sale of the receivables depends in part on the previous carrying amount of the financial assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based on their relative estimated fair value at the date of transfer. Retained interests in the subordinated tranches and interest-only strips were recorded at fair value and included in securities available for sale. Subsequent adjustments to fair value are recorded through other comprehensive income. Quoted market prices for these assets are generally not available, so Regions estimates fair value based on the present value of expected future cash flows using management’s best estimates of the key assumptions—expected credit losses, prepayment speeds, weighted-average life, and discount rates commensurate with the inherent risks of the asset. In calculating prepayment rates, Regions utilizes a variety of prepayment models depending on the loan type and specific transaction requirements. The models used by Regions include the constant prepayment rate model (CPR) and the Bond Market Trade Association’s Mortgaged Asset-Backed Securities Division’s prepayment model (PSA). On a quarterly basis, Regions ensures that any retained interests are valued appropriately in the consolidated financial statements. Management reviews the historical performance of each retained interest and the assumptions used to project future cash flows. Assumptions are revised if past performance and future expectations dictate. The present value of cash flows is then recalculated based on the revised assumptions. See the “Future Application of Accounting Standards” section of Note 1 for further discussion of the impact of new accounting literature on transfers of financial assets.  

121  

Table of Contents 

Prior to January 1, 2009, amounts capitalized for the right to service mortgage loans were amortized as a component of other non-interest expense over the estimated remaining lives of the loans, considering appropriate prepayment assumptions. Mortgage servicing rights were recorded at the lower of aggregate cost or estimated fair value on a stratified basis. For purposes of evaluating impairment, the Company stratified its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and interest rate. Impairment related to mortgage servicing rights was recorded in other non-interest expense. Contractually specified servicing fees, late fees and other ancillary income related to the servicing of mortgage loans were recorded in mortgage income.  

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage income. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2009, Regions adopted an option-adjusted spread (OAS) valuation approach. The OAS represents the average spread over the Libor swap curve that equates the asset’s discounted cash flows to its market price.  

The fair value of mortgage servicing rights is calculated using various assumptions including future cash flows, market discount rates, expected prepayment rates, servicing costs and other factors. A significant change in prepayments of mortgages in the servicing portfolio could result in significant changes in the valuation adjustments, thus creating potential volatility in the carrying amount of mortgage servicing rights. See Note 22 for additional discussion regarding determination of fair value.  

PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT  

Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Depreciation expense is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the improvements (or the terms of the leases, if shorter). Generally, premises and leasehold improvements are depreciated or amortized over 10-40 years. Furniture and equipment are generally depreciated or amortized over 3-12 years.  

Regions enters into lease transactions for the right to use assets. These leases vary in term and, from time to time, include incentives and/or rent escalations. Examples of incentives include periods of “free” rent and leasehold improvement incentives. Regions recognizes incentives and escalations on a straight-line basis over the lease term as a reduction of or increase to rent expense, as applicable, in net occupancy expense on the consolidated statements of operations.  

INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

Intangible assets include goodwill, which is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses, and other identifiable intangibles. Other identifiable intangible assets include the following: (1) core deposit intangible assets, which are amounts recorded related to the value of acquired indeterminate-maturity deposits, (2) amounts capitalized related to the value of acquired customer relationships and (3) amounts recorded related to employment agreements with certain individuals of acquired entities. Core deposit intangibles and most other identifiable intangibles are amortized on an accelerated basis over their expected useful lives.  

The Company’s goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. Regions assesses the following indicators of goodwill impairment for each reporting period:  

   •    Recent operating performance,  

   •    Changes in market capitalization,  

   •    Regulatory actions and assessments,  

122  

Table of Contents 

   •    Changes in the business climate (including legal factors and competition),  

   •    Company-specific factors (including changes in key personnel, asset impairments, and business dispositions), and  

   •    Trends in the banking industry.  

Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations, or other factors could result in a decline in the implied fair value of goodwill. A goodwill impairment test includes two steps. Step One, used to identify potential impairment, compares the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. Step Two of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied estimated fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of goodwill for that reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of that unit’s goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Regions tested goodwill for impairment periodically during 2008 and 2009 and recorded a $6.0 billion impairment charge within the General Bank/Treasury unit during the fourth quarter of 2008. Based on the testing performed throughout 2009, Regions’ goodwill was not impaired in 2009.  

For purposes of performing Step One of the goodwill impairment test, Regions uses both the income and market approaches to value its reporting units. The income approach, which is the primary valuation approach, consists of discounting projected long-term future cash flows, which are derived from internal forecasts and economic expectations for the respective reporting units. The projected future cash flows are discounted using cost of capital metrics for Regions’ peer group or a build-up approach (such as the capital asset pricing model) applicable to each reporting unit. The significant inputs to the income approach include expected future cash flows, which are primarily driven by the long-term target tangible equity to tangible assets ratio, and the discount rate, which is determined in the build-up approach using the risk-free rate of return, adjusted equity beta, equity risk premium, and a company-specific risk factor. The company-specific risk factor is used to address the uncertainty of growth estimates and earnings projections of management.  

Regions uses the public company method and the transaction method as the two market approaches. The public company method applies a value multiplier derived from each reporting unit’s peer group to a financial metric of the reporting unit (e.g. last twelve months of earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation, tangible book value, etc.) and an implied control premium to the respective reporting unit. The control premium is evaluated and compared to similar financial services transactions. The transaction method applies a value multiplier to a financial metric of the reporting unit based on comparable observed purchase transactions in the financial services industry for the reporting unit (where available).  

Regions uses the output from these approaches to determine estimated fair value. Below is a table of assumptions used in estimating the fair value of each reporting unit for the annual tests in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The tables include the discount rate used in the income approach and the market multiplier and implied control premium used in the market approaches applied to all reporting units for each reporting date.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) For the General Bank/Treasury and Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting units, these multipliers are applied to tangible book value. For the Insurance reporting unit, this multiplier is applied to the last twelve months of earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation, respectively.  

123  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) For the General Bank/Treasury and Insurance reporting units, these multipliers are applied to tangible book value and the last twelve months of earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation, respectively.  

 (b) For the General Bank/Treasury and Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting units, these multipliers are applied to tangible book value and brokerage assets under management, respectively.  

For purposes of performing Step Two of the goodwill impairment test, if applicable, Regions compares the implied estimated fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. In order to determine the implied estimated fair value, a full purchase price allocation would be performed in the same manner as if a business combination had occurred. As part of the Step Two analysis, Regions estimates the fair value of all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including unrecognized assets and liabilities. The related valuation methodologies for certain material financial assets and liabilities are discussed in Note 22.  

Other identifiable intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances that could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent other identifiable intangible assets are deemed unrecoverable, impairment losses are recorded in other non-interest expense to reduce the carrying amount.  

Refer to Note 9 for further discussion of the results of the goodwill and other identifiable intangibles impairment tests.  

FORECLOSED PROPERTY AND OTHER REAL ESTATE  

Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in satisfaction of indebtedness (“foreclosure”) are carried in other assets at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less estimated costs to sell the property. At the date of transfer, when the recorded investment in the loan exceeds the property’s fair value less costs to sell, write-downs are recorded as charge-offs in the allowance. Subsequent to transfer, additional write-downs are recorded as other non-interest expense. Gain or loss on the sale of foreclosed property and other real estate is included in other non-interest expense. See Note 10 for details.  

From time to time, assets classified as premises and equipment are transferred to held for sale for various reasons. These assets are carried in other assets at the lower of the recorded investment in the asset or fair value less estimated cost to sell based upon the property’s appraised value at the date of transfer. Any write-downs of property held for sale are recorded as other non-interest expense. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the carrying values of premises and equipment held for sale were approximately $56 million and $32 million, respectively.  

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES  

The Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk, facilitate asset/liability management strategies and manage other exposures. These instruments primarily include interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, Eurodollar futures, and forward sale commitments. All derivative financial instruments are recognized on the consolidated balance sheets as other assets or other liabilities at estimated fair value. Regions enters into master netting agreements with counterparties and/or requires collateral based on counterparty credit ratings to cover exposures.  

124  

Table of Contents 

Qualifying derivative financial instruments are designated, based on the exposure being hedged, as either fair value or cash flow hedges. For derivative financial instruments not designated as fair value or cash flow hedges, gains and losses related to the change in fair value are recognized in earnings during the period of change in fair value as brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income.  

Fair value hedge relationships mitigate exposure to the change in fair value of an asset, liability or firm commitment. Under the fair value hedging model, gains or losses attributable to the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the gains and losses attributable to the change in fair value of the hedged item, are recognized in earnings in the period in which the change in fair value occurs. Hedge ineffectiveness is recognized to the extent the changes in fair value of the derivative do not offset the changes in fair value of the hedged item as other non-interest expense. The corresponding adjustment to the hedged asset or liability is included in the basis of the hedged item, while the corresponding change in the fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded as an adjustment to other assets or other liabilities, as applicable.  

Cash flow hedge relationships mitigate exposure to the variability of future cash flows or other forecasted transactions. For cash flow hedge relationships, the effective portion of the gain or loss related to the derivative instrument is recognized as a component of other comprehensive income. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss related to the derivative instrument, if any, is recognized in earnings as other non-interest expense during the period of change. Amounts recorded in other comprehensive income are recognized in earnings in the period or periods during which the hedged item impacts earnings.  

The Company formally documents all hedging relationships between hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for entering into various hedge transactions. The Company performs periodic assessments to determine whether the hedging relationship has been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items and whether the relationship is expected to continue to be highly effective in the future.  

When a hedge is terminated or hedge accounting is discontinued because the hedged item no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment, or because it is probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the specified time period, the derivative will continue to be recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at its estimated fair value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income. Any asset or liability that was recorded pursuant to recognition of the firm commitment is removed from the consolidated balance sheets and recognized currently in other non-interest expense. Gains and losses that were accumulated in other comprehensive income pursuant to the hedge of a forecasted transaction are recognized immediately in other non-interest expense.  

Regions also enters into interest rate lock commitments, which are commitments to originate mortgage loans whereby the interest rate on the loan is determined prior to funding and the customers have locked into that interest rate. Accordingly, such commitments are recorded at estimated fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage income. Regions also has corresponding forward sale commitments related to these interest rate lock commitments, which are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage income. See Note 22 for additional information related to the valuation of interest rate lock commitments.  

Regions enters into various derivative agreements with customers desiring protection from possible future market fluctuations. Regions manages the market risk associated with these derivative agreements in a trading portfolio. The contracts in this portfolio do not qualify for hedge accounting and are marked-to-market through earnings and included in other assets and other liabilities. Customer derivatives are paired with offsetting derivative contracts that, when completed, are designed to eliminate market risk.  

Concurrent with the election to use fair value measurement for mortgage servicing rights referred to above, Regions began using various derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights in the statement of operations. The instruments are primarily forward rate commitments but can include futures and swaptions. These derivatives are carried at fair value, with changes reported in mortgage income.  

125  

Table of Contents 

INCOME TAXES  

Regions and its subsidiaries file various federal and state income tax returns, including some returns that are consolidated with subsidiaries. Regions accounts for the current and future tax effects of such returns using the asset and liability method, recording deferred tax assets and liabilities and applying federal and state tax rates currently in effect to its cumulative temporary differences. Temporary differences are differences between financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities.  

From time to time, for certain business plans enacted by Regions, management bases the estimates of related tax liabilities on its belief that future events will validate management’s current assumptions regarding the ultimate outcome of tax-related exposures. If the tax effects of a transaction are significant, Regions’ practice is to obtain the opinion of advisors that the tax effects of such a transaction should prevail if challenged. If the tax benefits associated with a transaction are not more-likely-than-not of being sustained upon examination by weighing the facts and circumstances at the reporting date, Regions records a liability for the recognized income tax benefits associated with that transaction. The examination of Regions’ income tax returns or changes in tax law may impact the tax benefits of these transactions. Regions recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as tax expense. Regions believes adequate provisions for income tax have been recorded for all years open for examination.  

Regions implemented authoritative accounting literature related to uncertain tax positions which required that only benefits from tax positions that are more-likely-than-not of being sustained upon examination should be recognized in the financial statements. As a result of the implementation, the Company recognized an approximate $259 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as a reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings.  

Management evaluates the realization of deferred tax assets based on all positive and negative evidence available at the balance sheet date. Realization of deferred tax assets is based on management’s judgments regarding future events including future projected income, implementation of plans to maximize realization of deferred tax assets, taxable income within the carryback period and reversal of taxable temporary differences.  

TREASURY STOCK  

The purchase of the Company’s common stock is recorded at cost. At the date of retirement or subsequent reissuance, treasury stock is reduced by the cost of such stock with differences recorded in additional paid-in capital or retained earnings, as applicable.  

SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS  

Compensation cost for share-based payments is measured based on the fair value of the award, which most commonly includes restricted stock (i.e., unvested common stock) and stock options, at the grant date and is recognized in the consolidated financial statements on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for service-based awards. The fair value of restricted stock or restricted stock units is determined based on the closing price of Regions’ common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock options where vesting is based on service is estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and related assumptions. Expected volatility considers implied volatility from traded options on the Company’s stock and, primarily, historical volatility of the Company’s stock. Regions considers historical data to estimate future option exercise behavior, which is used to derive an option’s expected term. The expected term represents the period of time that options are expected to be outstanding from the grant date. Historical data is also used to estimate future employee attrition, which is used to calculate an expected forfeiture rate. Groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are reviewed and considered for valuation purposes. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant and the weighted-average expected life of the grant. Beginning in 2009, Regions issued restricted stock units payable solely in cash (“cash-settled RSUs”), which are  

126  

Table of Contents 

 accounted for as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. The cash settled RSUs are subject to a vesting period ranging from two weeks to one year and, following the vesting period, are subject to transfer restrictions and a delayed payment, which can range from six months to two years. The grant date fair value of the award is determined in the same manner as other restricted stock awards and is charged to the statement of operations over the vesting period. Changes in Regions’ stock price over the delayed payment period are charged to the statement of operations.  

REVENUE RECOGNITION  

The largest source of revenue for Regions is interest income. Interest income is recognized on an accrual basis driven by nondiscretionary formulas based on written contracts, such as loan agreements or securities contracts. Credit-related fees, including letter of credit fees, are recognized in non-interest income when earned. Regions recognizes commission revenue and brokerage, exchange and clearance fees on a trade-date basis. Other types of non-interest revenues, such as service charges on deposits and trust revenues, are accrued and recognized into income as services are provided and the amount of fees earned are reasonably determinable.  

PER SHARE AMOUNTS  

Earnings (loss) per common share computations are based upon the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per common share computations are based upon the weighted- average number of shares outstanding during the period, plus the effect of outstanding stock options and stock performance awards if dilutive. The diluted earnings (loss) per common share computation also assumes conversion of convertible preferred stock and warrants, unless such an assumed conversion would be antidilutive.  

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND ACCOUNTING CHANGES  

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157 “Fair Value Measurements”, codified in the “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures” Topic (“Fair Value Topic”) of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”), which provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities, but does not expand the use of fair value in any circumstance. The guidance also requires expanded disclosures about the extent to which a company measures assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value, and the effect of fair value measurements on an entity’s financial statements. The provisions apply when other guidance requires or permits assets and liabilities to be measured at fair value. The Fair Value Topic is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. Regions adopted the provisions on January 1, 2008, and the effect of adoption on the consolidated financial statements was not material. Additionally, in February 2008, the FASB issued FSP 157-2, “Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157”, also codified in the Fair Value Topic, which delays the effective date for non-recurring, non-financial instruments to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. Regions implemented these provisions as of January 1, 2009. Refer to Note 22, “Fair Value Measurements” for additional information about the impact of the adoption of the Fair Value Topic.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations”, codified in the “Business Combinations” Topic of the ASC. The guidance requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition-date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose to investors and other users all of the information needed to evaluate and understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The provisions are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Regions adopted these provisions as of January 1, 2009, and the adoption did not have a material impact on Regions’ consolidated financial statements. However, the adoption of these provisions could have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements for prospective business combinations.  

127  

Table of Contents 

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements”, codified in the “Consolidation” Topic of the ASC, which requires all entities to report noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries as equity in the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the provisions require that transactions between an entity and noncontrolling interests be treated as equity transactions. The provisions are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Furthermore, in January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2010-02 “Accounting and Reporting for Decreases in Ownership of a Subsidiary—a Scope Clarification”. ASU 2010-02 clarified the scope of the provisions of the “Consolidation” topic. Regions adopted these provisions on January 1, 2009, and their adoption did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.  

In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, codified in the “Derivatives and Hedging” Topic of the ASC. The guidance requires entities to provide enhanced disclosures about (a) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (b) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for, and (c) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The provisions are effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early adoption permitted. Regions adopted the provisions on January 1, 2009. Refer to Note 21, “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities” for additional information.  

In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. EITF 03-6-1, “Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payments Transactions Are Participating Securities”, codified in the “Earnings Per Share” Topic of the ASC. The guidance requires that instruments granted in share-based payment transactions, that are considered to be participating securities, should be included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share (“EPS”) under the two-class method. The provisions are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 with all prior period EPS data being adjusted retrospectively. Early adoption was not permitted. Regions adopted these provisions on January 1, 2009, and the adoption did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.  

In December 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 132(R)-1, “Employers’ Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets”, codified in the “Compensation – Retirement Benefits” Topic of the ASC. The guidance requires annual disclosures about assets held in an employer’s defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. These provisions are generally effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. See Note 18 for disclosures required by this guidance.  

In January 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. EITF 99-20-1, “Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue No. 99-20”, codified in the “Investments” Topic of the ASC. This FSP amends the impairment guidance in EITF Issue No. 99-20, “Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets,” to achieve more consistent determination of whether an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. Additionally, the FSP retains and emphasizes the objective of an other-than-temporary impairment assessment and the related disclosure requirements in FASB Statement No. 115 “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities”, and other related guidance. This guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after December 15, 2008, and is applied prospectively. Regions adopted this guidance as of December 31, 2008, and the effect of adoption on the consolidated financial statements was not material.  

In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 141(R)-1, “Accounting for Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies”, codified in the “Business Combinations” Topic of the ASC, to address certain implementation issues related to the accounting for assets and liabilities arising from contingencies. The guidance requires that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination arising from contingencies should be recognized at fair value on the acquisition date if fair value can be determined during the measurement period. These provisions are effective for acquisitions where the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. These provisions will be applied to any prospective business combination.  

128  

Table of Contents 

In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 157-4, “Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly”, codified in the Fair Value Topic, to provide additional guidance for estimating fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased. Additionally, it includes guidance on identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. The guidance emphasizes that even if there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability and regardless of the valuation technique(s) used, the objective of a fair value measurement remains the same. This guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, and is applied prospectively. Regions adopted these provisions during the second quarter of 2009, and the effect of the adoption on the consolidated financial statements was not material.  

In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 107-1 and APB 28-1, “Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments”, codified in the “Financial Instruments” Topic of the ASC, to require disclosures about fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting periods as well as in annual financial statements. This guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, and is applied prospectively. Regions adopted these provisions during the second quarter of 2009. Refer to Note 22, “Fair Value Measurements” for additional information.  

In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP 115-2 and 124-2, “Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments”, codified in the “Investments” Topic of the ASC, which modifies and expands other-than-temporary impairment guidance for debt securities. This guidance addresses the unique features of debt securities and clarifies the interaction of the factors that should be considered when determining whether a debt security is other-than-temporarily impaired. Additionally, it requires an entity to recognize the credit component of an other-than-temporary impairment of a debt security in earnings and the noncredit component in other comprehensive income when the entity does not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that the entity will not be required to sell the security prior to recovery. The guidance also expands and increases the frequency of existing disclosures about other-than-temporary impairments for debt and equity securities. This guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, and is applied prospectively. Regions adopted these provisions during the second quarter of 2009. Refer to Note 4 for additional information.  

In May 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 165, “Subsequent Events”, codified in the “Subsequent Events” Topic of the ASC, which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. This guidance also requires entities to disclose the date through which subsequent events were evaluated as well as whether that date is the date that the financial statements were issued or were available to be issued. Regions adopted the Subsequent Events Topic during the second quarter of 2009.  

In August 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-05 “Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value”. ASU 2009-05 provides further guidance on how to measure the fair value of a liability. ASU 2009-05 is effective for the first reporting period beginning after August 26, 2009. The adoption of ASU 2009-05 did not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements.  

In September 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-12 “Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent)”. ASU 2009-12 permits the use of net asset value per share to estimate the fair value of these investments as a practical expedient. The ASU also requires disclosure, by major category of investment, of the attributes of the investments, such as the nature of any restrictions on the investor's ability to redeem its investments at the measurement date, any unfunded commitments, and the investment strategies of the investees. ASU 2009-12 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after December 15, 2009. The adoption of ASU 2009-12 did not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements.  

129  

Table of Contents 

FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 166, “Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets—an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140”, codified in the “Consolidation” Topic of the ASC as ASU 2009-16, which eliminates the concept of a “Qualified Special Purpose Entity” from FAS 140, changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets, and requires additional disclosures. ASU 2009-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. Regions is in the process of reviewing the potential impact of these provisions; however, their adoption is not expected to have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 167, “Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)”, codified in the “Consolidation” Topic of the ASC as ASU 2009-17, which modifies how a company determines when a VIE should be consolidated. It also requires a qualitative assessment of an entity’s determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE based on whether the entity (1) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance, and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. An ongoing reassessment is also required to determine whether a company is the primary beneficiary of a VIE as well as additional disclosures about a company’s involvement in VIEs. ASU 2009-17 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. Regions is in the process of reviewing the potential impact of these provisions; however, their adoption is not expected to have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements.  

In January 2010, the FASB issued the ASU 2010-06, “Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements”, which requires additional disclosures related to the transfers in and out of fair value hierarchy and the activity of Level 3 financial instruments. This ASU also provides clarification for the classification of financial instruments and the discussion of inputs and valuation techniques. The new disclosures and clarification are effective for interim and annual reporting periods after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures related to the activity of Level 3 financial instruments. Those disclosures are effective for periods after December 15, 2010 and for interim periods within those years. Regions is in the process of reviewing the potential impact of ASU 2010-06; however, the adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements.  

NOTE 2. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES  

Regions is involved in various entities that are considered to be VIEs, as defined by authoritative accounting literature. Generally, a VIE is a corporation, partnership, trust or other legal structure that either does not have equity investors with substantive voting rights or has equity investors that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities. The following discusses the VIE’s in which Regions has a significant interest.  

Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (“trust preferred securities”) in the aggregate of approximately $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a VIE of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts’ only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long-term borrowings and Regions’ equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. Interest expense on the junior subordinated debentures is reported in interest expense on long-term borrowings. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities will continue to constitute Tier 1 Capital until further notice.  

Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. These partnerships meet the definition of a VIE. Due to the  

130  

Table of Contents 

 nature of the management activities of the general partner, Regions is not the primary beneficiary of these partnerships and accounts for these investments using the equity method. Regions’ equity method investments as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $827 million and $710 million, respectively, which are included in other assets. Regions reports its equity share of the partnership gains and losses as an adjustment to non-interest income. The Company also receives credits toward its federal income tax liabilities, which are reported as a reduction of income tax expense (or increase to income tax benefit) and a reduction of federal income taxes payable. Unfunded commitments to the partnerships included in other liabilities were $258 million and $298 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additionally, Regions has short-term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with certain of the partnerships totaling $324 million and $188 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $150 million and $115 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The funded portion is classified as commercial and industrial loans on the consolidated balance sheets.  

NOTE 3. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

On March 30, 2007, Regions sold EquiFirst Corporation (“EquiFirst”), a wholly owned non-conforming mortgage origination subsidiary. Consequently, the business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Resolution of the sales price was completed in October 2008, resulting in an after-tax loss of approximately $10 million.  

Prior to the sale of EquiFirst and excluding the loss on the sale, Regions recorded, during 2007, approximately $142 million in after-tax losses related to the operations of EquiFirst. The primary factor in the recognition of these losses was the significant and rapid deterioration of the sub-prime market during the first three months of 2007.  

The results from discontinued operations did not impact the year ending December 31, 2009. The results from discontinued operations for the years ending December 31, 2008, and 2007 are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

131  

Table of Contents 

NOTE 4. SECURITIES  

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity at December 31 are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

132  

Table of Contents 

Regions evaluates securities in a loss position for other-than-temporary impairment, considering such factors as the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions’ intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. Activity related to the credit loss component of other-than-temporary impairment is recognized in earnings. For debt securities, the portion of other-than-temporary impairment related to all other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). For the year ended December 31, 2009, activity related to credit losses for only debt securities where a portion of the other-than-temporary impairment was recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table provides details of other-than-temporary impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Includes credit portion reported in earnings and non-credit portion reported in other comprehensive  

income (loss).  

 (2) Net other-than-temporary impairment reported in earnings.  

 (3) All impairment for these securities is credit-related; therefore, gross charges equals the net amount reported in earnings.  

During 2009, non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities with other-than-temporary impairment consisted of 30 securities. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had exited its position in all of the non-agency residential mortgage backed securities for which other-than-temporary impairments had previously been recorded. All non-credit losses previously recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) had been recognized in the statement of operations as of December 31, 2009.  

The Company estimates the amount of losses attributable to credit using a third-party discounted cash flow model that compiles relevant details on borrower and collateral performance on a security-by-security basis. Assumptions including delinquencies, default rates, credit subordination support, prepayment rates, and loss severity based on the underlying collateral characteristics and year of origination are considered to estimate the future cash flows. Assumptions used can vary widely from loan to loan, and are influenced by such factors as interest rates, geography, borrower specific data and underlying collateral. Expected future cash flows are then calculated using a discount rate that management believes a market participant would consider in determining the  

133  

Table of Contents 

 fair value. Based on the results of the estimated future cash flows, the Company determines the amount of estimated losses related to credit and the remaining unrealized loss for which recovery is expected. Significant weighted-average assumptions specific to non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities for which other-than-temporary impairment was recorded during 2009 include a 22.9% collateral default rate projection, 9.2% credit subordination support and 14.2% delinquency rate.  

The following tables present unrealized loss and estimated fair value of securities available for sale at December 31, 2009 and 2008. These securities are segregated between investments that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than twelve months and twelve months or more.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The gross unrealized loss on debt securities held to maturity was $0 and $1 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, with all loss positions in a continuous loss position of less than twelve months.  

For the securities included in the tables above, management does not believe any individual unrealized loss, which was comprised of 151 securities and 1,065 securities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, represented an other-than-temporary impairment as of those dates. The unrealized losses at December 31, 2008 related primarily to the impact of lower interest rates and widening of credit and liquidity spreads related to U.S. Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities. During the second half of 2009, the Company made efforts to significantly reduce the credit risk in the available for sale portfolio. Exposures in residential non-agency mortgage-backed securities, commercial non-agency mortgage-backed securities, and obligations of states and political subdivisions have been substantially reduced. Proceeds from exiting these positions were reinvested in residential agency mortgage-backed securities.  

134  

Table of Contents 

The cost and estimated fair value of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity at December 31, 2009, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Proceeds from sales of securities available for sale in 2009 were $5.5 billion, with gross realized gains and losses of $187 million and $118 million, respectively. Proceeds from sales of securities available for sale in 2008 were $2.1 billion, with gross realized gains and losses of $95 million and $3 million, respectively. Proceeds from sales of securities available for sale in 2007 were $2.0 billion, with gross realized gains and losses of $41 million and $50 million, respectively. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.  

Equity securities included $492 million and $533 million of amortized cost related to Federal Reserve Bank stock and $473 million and $458 million of amortized cost related to Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) stock as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Both Federal Reserve Bank and FHLB stocks’ estimated fair value approximates their carrying amounts.  

Securities with carrying values of $12.4 billion and $16.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were pledged to secure public funds, trust deposits and certain borrowing arrangements.  

Trading account net gains (losses) totaled $60 million (including $27 million of net unrealized gains), $(2) million (including $43 million of net unrealized losses) and $32 million (including $2 million of net unrealized losses) in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

As of December 31, 2009, Regions owned approximately $6.4 billion, $12.2 billion, and $3.7 billion in aggregate book value of Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Federal National Mortgage Association and Government National Mortgage Association securities, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, Regions owned approximately $7.8 billion, $5.6 billion, and $76 million in aggregate book value of Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Federal National Mortgage Association and Government National Mortgage Association securities, respectively.  

135  

Table of Contents 

NOTE 5. LOANS  

The loan portfolio at December 31 consisted of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The loan portfolio is diversified geographically, primarily within Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.  

Beginning in 2008 and continuing into 2009, Regions considered its residential homebuilder, home equity loans secured by second liens in Florida and condominium portfolios as concentrations due to the recent pressures from economic downturns and real estate market deterioration. The residential homebuilder portfolio was approximately $2.9 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and represented extensions of credit to real estate developers where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate. The majority of these loans are reported in the commercial investor real estate construction category while a smaller portion is reported as commercial investor real estate mortgage. The portion of the home equity portfolio where the collateral is comprised of second liens in Florida, was $3.5 billion and $3.7 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The condominium portfolio was $0.6 billion and $0.9 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Beginning in the second quarter and continuing through year-end 2009, income-producing investor real estate, including multi-family and retail, also showed signs of credit pressure. Multi-family and retail totaled $9.2 billion at December 31, 2009 compared to $8.8 billion at December 31, 2008.  

Unearned income totaled $1.1 billion and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Included in loans, net of unearned income at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $50 million and $107 million, respectively, of net deferred loan costs. Unamortized net discounts on loans net of unearned income totaled $18 million and $26 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Included in commercial and industrial loans were $1.3 billion and $2.4 billion of rentals receivable and $1.1 billion and $2.2 billion of unearned income on leveraged leases at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Also, estimated residuals on leveraged leases were $339 million and $481 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Pre-tax income from leveraged leases for the years ending December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $100 million, $67 million and $67 million, respectively. The tax effect of this income was an expense of $72 million, $62 million and $62 million for the years ending December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

136  

Table of Contents 

At December 31, 2009, non-accrual loans including loans held for sale totaled $3.8 billion, compared to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2008. The amount of interest income recognized in 2009, 2008 and 2007 on non-accrual loans was approximately $55 million, $41 million and $25 million, respectively. If these loans had been current in accordance with their original terms, approximately $160 million, $116 million and $40 million, respectively, would have been recognized on these loans in 2009, 2008 and 2007. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Regions had loans contractually past due 90 days or more and still accruing of approximately $688 million and $554 million, respectively.  

Impaired loans are defined in Note 1. The recorded investment in impaired loans was $5.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2008. The allowance allocated to impaired loans, excluding TDRs, totaled $403 million and $130 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The allowance allocated to TDRs totaled $38 million and $9 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The average amount of impaired loans was $3.6 billion during 2009, $1.3 billion during 2008 and $396 million during 2007. No material amount of interest income was recognized on impaired loans for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 or 2007.  

In addition to the impaired loans discussed in the preceding paragraph, there were approximately $317 million and $423 million in nonperforming loans classified as held for sale at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loans are larger balance credits, primarily investor real estate. Management does not have the intent to hold these loans for the foreseeable future. The loans are carried at an amount approximating a price which will be recoverable through the loan sale market. Because the adjusted carrying value is lower than the outstanding principal, these loans are considered impaired.  

Regions had approximately $61 million and $77 million in book value of sub-prime loans retained from the disposition of EquiFirst at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The credit loss exposure related to these loans is addressed in management’s periodic determination of the allowance for credit losses.  

As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, Regions had funded $626 million and $332 million, respectively, in letters of credit backing Variable-Rate Demand Notes (“VRDNs”). An additional $61 million has been tendered but not yet funded as of December 31, 2009. The remaining unfunded VRDN letters of credit portfolio at December 31, 2009 was approximately $2.7 billion (net of participations).  

Regions’ recorded recourse liability, which primarily relates to residential mortgage loans, totaled $30 million and $32 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The recourse liability represents Regions’ estimated credit losses on contingent repurchases of loans or make-whole payments related to residential mortgage loans previously sold. This recourse arises when debtors fail to pay for an initial period of time after the loan is sold or due to defects in the underwriting of the sold loans.  

Of the balances at December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $3.2 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively, of first mortgage loans on one-to-four family dwellings, as well as $5.6 billion and $6.0 billion, respectively, of home equity loans held by Regions were pledged to secure borrowings from the FHLB (see Note 13 for further discussion). At December 31, 2009, approximately $8.3 billion of commercial and industrial loans, $9.9 billion of owner-occupied loans, $7.9 billion of investor real estate loans and $1.8 billion of other consumer loans held by Regions were pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank. At December 31, 2008, approximately $22.0 billion of commercial loans and $3.1 billion of other consumer loans held by Regions were pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank.  

Directors and executive officers of Regions and its principal subsidiaries, including the directors’ and officers’ families and affiliated companies, are loan and deposit customers and have other transactions with Regions in the ordinary course of business. Total loans to these persons (excluding loans which in the aggregate do not exceed $60,000 to any such person) at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $266 million and $319 million, respectively. These loans were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with other persons and involve no unusual risk of collectability.  

137  

Table of Contents 

NOTE 6. ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  

The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance for loan losses, which is presented on the consolidated balance sheets as a contra-asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.  

An analysis of the allowance for credit losses for the years ended December 31 follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NOTE 7. TRANSFERS AND SERVICING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS  

SECURITIZATIONS  

Prior to the third quarter of 2008, Regions sold commercial loans to third-party multi-issuer conduits, of which Regions retained servicing responsibilities. During 2008, Regions discontinued the sale and securitization of commercial loans to conduits. As part of the sale and securitization of commercial loans to conduits, Regions provided credit enhancements to the conduits in the form of letters of credit; there were none outstanding at either December 31, 2009 or 2008. Regions also provided liquidity lines of credit to support the issuance of commercial paper under 364-day loan commitments. These liquidity lines could be drawn upon in the event of a commercial paper market disruption or other factors, which could prevent the asset-backed commercial paper issuers from being able to issue commercial paper. Regions had no liquidity lines of credit supporting these conduit transactions at either December 31, 2009 or 2008. No gains or losses were recognized on commercial loans sold to third-party conduits nor was any retained interest recorded due to the relatively short life of the commercial loans sold into the conduits.  

During 2009, Regions exercised clean-up calls on a residential mortgage loan securitizations. As of December 31, 2009, $42 million of loans related to clean-up calls are recorded in residential first mortgage loans on the balance sheet. An immaterial amount of securitized loans related to residential mortgage loan securitizations remains at December 31, 2009.  

138  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to securitization transactions for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

SERVICING  

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method (see Note 1). The fair value of mortgage servicing rights is calculated using various assumptions including future cash flows, market discount rates, expected prepayment rates, servicing costs and other factors. A significant change in prepayments of mortgages in the servicing portfolio could result in significant changes in the valuation adjustments, thus creating potential volatility in the carrying amount of mortgage servicing rights. Regions uses various derivative instruments and trading securities to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in the statement of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, Regions recognized a net $37 million gain associated with changes in mortgage servicing rights and the aforementioned derivatives and securities. The net gain is included in several line items in the statement of operations; $20 million is included in interest income, $13 million is included in mortgage income and $4 million is included in brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2009, Regions adopted an option-adjusted spread (OAS) valuation approach. The OAS represents the additional spread over the swap rate that is required in order for the asset’s discounted cash flows to equal its market price. The change to OAS valuation did not materially impact the fair value of the mortgage servicing rights. An analysis of the OAS and its sensitivity to rate fluctuations is presented below.  

The table below presents an analysis of mortgage servicing rights for the year ended December 31, 2009, under the fair value measurement method:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Represents economic amortization associated with borrower repayments.  

Data and assumptions used in the fair value calculation related to residential mortgage servicing rights (excluding related derivative instruments) as of December 31, 2009 are as follows (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

139  

Table of Contents 

The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the mortgage servicing rights is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. The derivative instruments utilized by Regions would serve to reduce the estimated impacts to fair value included in the table above.  

The tables below present several analyses of mortgage servicing rights under the amortization method for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

An analysis of mortgage servicing rights for the year ended December 31, 2008 is presented below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The changes in the valuation allowance for servicing assets were as follows for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Data and assumptions used in the fair value calculation related to mortgage servicing rights for the years ended December 31 are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The estimated fair value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights was $161 million at December 31, 2008. In 2008 and 2007, Regions’ amortization of mortgage servicing rights was $76 million and $79 million, respectively.  

During 2009, 2008 and 2007, Regions recognized $70 million, $86 million and $102 million, respectively, in contractually specified servicing fees, late fees and other ancillary income resulting from the servicing of mortgage loans.  

140  

Table of Contents 

NOTE 8. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT  

A summary of premises and equipment at December 31 is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NOTE 9. INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

GOODWILL  

Goodwill allocated to each reportable segment as of December 31 is presented as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

A summary of goodwill activity at December 31 is presented as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As stated in Note 1, Regions evaluates each reporting unit’s goodwill for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter, or more often if events or circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. Due to the deteriorating economic environment in 2008 and 2009, Regions performed interim impairment tests during the second and third quarters of 2008 and then again in the second and third quarters of 2009 in addition to the 2008 and 2009 annual tests. The results of these interim tests indicated that goodwill was not impaired as of these test dates.  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions performed the Step One analysis for all three reporting units. Regions’ annual test indicated potential impairment for the General Banking/Treasury reporting unit. Therefore, Step Two was performed and resulted in the Company recording a goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion in the General Banking/Treasury reporting unit. The primary cause of the goodwill impairment in the General Banking/Treasury reporting unit was the continued and significant decline in the estimated fair value of the unit.  

141  

Table of Contents 

 This was evidenced by rapid deterioration in credit costs, continued compression of the net interest margin, costs of the preferred stock issuance to the U.S. Treasury and continued declines in the Company’s overall market capitalization during the fourth quarter of 2008. The Step One analysis did not indicate that goodwill was impaired for the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance reporting units as of December 31, 2008.  

The $6.0 billion impairment charge discussed above was Regions’ first recorded goodwill impairment. There has been no impairment recorded subsequent to this time. Accordingly, the cumulative impairment at December 31, 2008 and 2009 was $6.0 billion.  

In the fourth quarter of 2009, Regions performed the Step One analysis for all three reporting units. This annual test indicated potential impairment for the General Banking/Treasury reporting unit. Based on the results of the Step Two analysis performed, Regions concluded the General Banking/Treasury reporting unit’s goodwill was not impaired. The Step One analysis did not indicate that goodwill was impaired for the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance reporting units as of December 31, 2009.  

The valuation methodologies of certain material financial assets and liabilities are discussed in Note 22, “Fair Value of Financial Instruments.”  

OTHER INTANGIBLES  

A summary of core deposit intangible assets at December 31 is presented as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Regions’ core deposit intangible assets are being amortized on an accelerated basis over a ten-year period.  

Identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed at least annually, usually in the fourth quarter, for events or circumstances that could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent other identifiable intangible assets are deemed unrecoverable, impairment losses are recorded in other non-interest expense to reduce the carrying amount.  

Regions has other intangible assets totaling $42 million and $55 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These other intangible assets resulted from customer relationships and employment agreements related to various acquisitions and are being amortized primarily on an accelerated basis over a period ranging from two to twelve years. In both 2009 and 2008, Regions’ amortization of other intangibles was $16 million. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for all other identifiable intangible assets.  

The aggregate amount of amortization expense for core deposit intangible assets and other intangible assets is estimated to be $118 million in 2010, $105 million in 2011, $88 million in 2012, $74 million in 2013, and $61 million in 2014.  

142  

Table of Contents 

NOTE 10. FORECLOSED PROPERTIES  

Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in foreclosure are carried at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less estimated costs to sell the property.  

An analysis of foreclosed properties for the years ended December 31 follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NOTE 11. DEPOSITS  

The following schedule presents a detail of interest-bearing deposits at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The aggregate amount of time deposits of $100,000 or more, including certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more, was $12.6 billion and $12.7 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

The aggregate amount of maturities of all time deposits (deposits with stated maturities, consisting primarily of certificates of deposit and IRAs) in each of the next five years is as follows: 2010–$19.0 billion; 2011–$7.5 billion; 2012–$2.3 billion; 2013–$2.6 billion; 2014–$110 million; and thereafter–$36 million.  

NOTE 12. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS  

Following is a summary of short-term borrowings at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

143  

Table of Contents 

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are used to satisfy daily funding needs. Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase had weighted-average maturities of 5 days and 2 days at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Weighted-average rates on these dates were 0.2 and 0.5%, respectively.  

During 2009 and 2008, the Company utilized short-term borrowings through participation in the Federal Reserve’s Term Auction Facility (“TAF”). These fundings were utilized primarily to repay other short-term borrowings or provide excess balances at the Federal Reserve. At December 31, 2009, Regions did not have any borrowings under the TAF and currently does not plan to borrow again through the TAF program. Regions exited the TAF program in July 2009. Borrowings under the TAF had a weighted-average maturity of 13 days and a weighted-average interest rate of 1.14% at December 31, 2008.  

Treasury, tax and loan notes consist of borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank. At December 31, 2009, Regions can borrow a maximum amount of approximately $14 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank. Regions has pledged certain commercial, home equity and other consumer loans as discount window collateral. See Note 5 for loans pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank at December 31, 2009 and 2008.  

See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of Regions’ borrowing capacity with the FHLB.  

The short-sale liability represents Regions’ trading obligation to deliver certain securities at a predetermined date and price. Through Morgan Keegan, Regions maintains a liability for its brokerage customer position, which represents liquid funds in the customers’ brokerage accounts.  

Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks that provide for maximum borrowings of $585 million as of both December 31, 2009 and 2008. Amounts outstanding under these lines of credit as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, are included in other short-term borrowings.  

144  

Table of Contents 

NOTE 13. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS  

Long-term borrowings at December 31 consist of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Long-term FHLB structured advances have stated maturities ranging from 2010 to 2013, but are convertible quarterly at the option of the FHLB. The convertible feature provides that after a specified date in the future, the advances will remain at a fixed rate, or Regions will have the option to either pay off the advance or convert from a fixed rate to a variable rate based on the LIBOR index. The FHLB structured advances have a weighted-average interest rate of 3.1% at December 31, 2009 and 5.4% at both December 31, 2008 and 2007. Other FHLB advances at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 have a weighted-average interest rate of 3.4%, 3.8% and 4.8%, respectively, with maturities of one to twenty years. FHLB borrowings are contingent upon the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one-to-four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. See Note 5 for loans pledged to the FHLB at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Additionally, membership in the FHLB requires an institution to hold FHLB stock, which was $473 million at December 31, 2009 and $458 million at December 31, 2008.  

As of December 31, 2009, Regions had ten issuances of subordinated notes totaling $4.3 billion, with stated interest rates ranging from 4.85% to 7.75%. In May 2008, Regions Bank issued $750 million of subordinated notes bearing an initial fixed rate of 7.50%, with a final maturity of May 15, 2018. All issuances of these notes are, by definition, subordinated and subject in right of payment of both principal and interest to the prior payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which is generally defined as all indebtedness and other obligations of the Company to its creditors, except subordinated indebtedness. Payment of the principal of the  

145  

Table of Contents 

 notes may be accelerated only in the case of certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency proceedings or reorganization of the Company. The subordinated notes described above qualify as Tier 2 capital under Federal Reserve guidelines. Approximately $175 million in subordinated notes matured during the first quarter of 2009. None of the subordinated notes are redeemable prior to maturity.  

As of December 31, 2009, Regions had senior notes totaling $5.3 billion. In November 2009, Regions issued $700 million of senior notes (gross of discount) bearing an initial fixed rate of 7.75%, with a final maturity on November 10, 2014. Approximately $250 million of senior debt notes matured during the second quarter of 2009. In October 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) announced a new program – the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) – to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Under the original rules, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt with maturities greater than 30 days issued on or before June 30, 2009, would be backed by the “full faith and credit” of the U.S. government through June 30, 2012. The FDIC’s payment obligation under the guarantee for eligible senior unsecured debt would be triggered by a payment default. The guarantee is limited to 125% of senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. This includes federal funds purchased, promissory notes, commercial paper and certain types of inter-bank funding. Participants were charged a 50-100 basis point fee to protect their new debt issues which varies depending on the maturity date. Additionally, participants could elect to pay a fee of 37.5 basis points on their TLGP capacity for the right to issue non-guaranteed debt during the program. This fee was non-refundable and used to offset the guarantee fee for issuances until exhausted. In December 2008, Regions Bank completed an offering of $3.75 billion of qualifying senior bank notes covered by the TLGP. Payment of principal and interest on the notes will be guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States pursuant to the TLGP. Several notes related to the TLGP also mature during 2010. Approximately $250 million will mature June 11, 2010 currently having an interest rate of 0.66%, $500 million will mature on December 10, 2010 currently having an interest rate of 0.91%, and $999 million will mature December 10, 2010 with an interest rate of 2.75%. Also, $497 million of senior notes will mature during December 2010 which have an interest rate of 4.375%. None of the senior notes are redeemable prior to maturity.  

On June 22, 2009, the Company exchanged 33 million common shares for $202 million of outstanding 6.625% trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (“the Trust”). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of junior subordinated notes (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements).  

In April 2008, Regions issued $345 million of junior subordinated notes (“JSNs”) bearing an initial fixed interest rate of 8.875%. These JSNs have a scheduled maturity of June 15, 2048 and a final maturity of June 15, 2078, and are redeemable at Regions’ option on or after June 15, 2013. The JSNs were issued to affiliated trusts, which contemporaneously issued trust preferred securities which Regions guaranteed.  

Other long-term debt at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 had weighted-average interest rates of 2.9%, 2.9% and 6.1%, respectively, and a weighted-average maturity of 5.3 years at December 31, 2009. Regions has $59 million included in other long-term debt in connection with a seller-lessee transaction with continuing involvement (see Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for further information).  

Regions uses derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swaps, to manage interest rate risk by converting a portion of its fixed-rate debt to a variable-rate. The effective rate adjustments related to these hedges are included in interest expense on long-term borrowings. The weighted-average interest rate on total long-term debt, including the effect of derivative instruments, was 3.6%, 4.6% and 5.7% for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Further discussion of derivative instruments is included in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.  

146  

Table of Contents 

The aggregate amount of contractual maturities of all long-term debt in each of the next five years and thereafter is as follows: 2010–$5.5 billion; 2011–$6.0 billion; 2012–$1.9 billion; 2013–$1.0 billion; 2014–$0.7 billion; and thereafter–$3.4 billion.  

In May 2007, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and/or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in May 2010. Regions expects to file a new shelf registration statement prior to the expiration of the current shelf registration statement.  

At December 31, 2009, Regions Bank had issued the maximum amount of $5 billion under its previously approved Bank Note program. In July 2008, the Board of Directors approved a Bank Note program that allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes that can be outstanding at any one time. No issuances had been made under this program as of December 31, 2009. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC.  

On October 19, 2009, the Federal Reserve Bank released a new collateral margin table for loans and securities pledged to the discount window. These new margins significantly reduced the lendable collateral value available to all participating banks. As a result of these margin reductions, Regions’ borrowing availability as of December 31, 2009, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $14.3 billion for terms of less than 29 days, or $11.5 billion with terms of greater than or equal to 29 days.  

Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares.  

NOTE 14. REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS  

Regions and Regions Bank are subject to regulatory capital requirements administered by Federal banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Company’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the most recent notification from Federal banking agencies categorized Regions and its significant subsidiaries as “well capitalized” under the regulatory framework.  

Minimum capital requirements for all banks are Tier 1 Capital of at least 4% of risk-weighted assets, Total Capital of at least 8% of risk-weighted assets and a Leverage Ratio of 3%, plus an additional 100 to 200 basis-point cushion in certain circumstances, of adjusted quarterly average assets. Tier 1 Capital consists principally of stockholders’ equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), less goodwill, deferred tax assets, and certain other intangibles. Total Capital consists of Tier 1 Capital plus certain debt instruments and the allowance for credit losses, subject to limitation. The Company believes that no changes in conditions or events have occurred since December 31, 2009, which would result in changes that would cause Regions or Regions Bank to fall below the well capitalized level.  

147  

Table of Contents 

Regions’ and its banking subsidiary’s capital levels at December 31 exceeded both the minimum and “well capitalized” levels, as shown below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has identified 4% as the level of Tier 1 Common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios.  

Regions Bank is required to maintain reserve balances with the Federal Reserve Bank. The average amount of the reserve balances maintained for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, was approximately $35 million and $73 million, respectively.  

Substantially all net assets are owned by subsidiaries. The primary source of operating cash available to Regions is provided by dividends from subsidiaries. Statutory limits are placed on the amount of dividends the subsidiary bank can pay without prior regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory authorities require the maintenance of minimum capital-to-asset ratios at banking subsidiaries. Under the Federal Reserve’s Regulation H, Regions Bank may not, without approval of the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to Regions if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year exceeds the total of (a) Regions Bank’s net income for that year and (b) its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to additional paid-in capital or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock. As a result of the losses incurred by Regions Bank in 2009 and 2008, Regions Bank cannot, without approval from the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to Regions until such time as Regions Bank is able to satisfy the criteria discussed in the preceding sentence. Given the losses in 2009 and 2008, Regions Bank does not expect to be able to pay dividends to Regions in the near term without obtaining regulatory approval. In addition to dividend restrictions, Federal statutes also prohibit unsecured loans from banking subsidiaries to the parent company. Because of these limitations, substantially all of the net assets of Regions’ subsidiaries are restricted.  

148  

Table of Contents 

In addition, Regions must adhere to various U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) regulatory guidelines including required minimum capital to maintain their Federal Housing Administration approved status. Failure to comply with the HUD guidelines could result in withdrawal of this certification. As of December 31, 2009, Regions was in compliance with HUD guidelines. Regions is also subject to various capital requirements by secondary market investors.  

NOTE 15. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)  

On November 14, 2008, Regions completed the sale of 3.5 million shares of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $1.00 and liquidation preference $1,000.00 per share (and $3.5 billion liquidation preference in the aggregate) to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). Regions will pay the U.S. Treasury on a quarterly basis a 5% dividend, or $175 million annually, for each of the first five years of the investment, and 9% thereafter unless Regions redeems the shares. Regions performed a discounted cash flow analysis to value the preferred stock at the date of issuance. For purposes of this analysis, Regions assumed that the preferred stock would most likely be redeemed five years from the valuation date based on optimal financial budgeting considerations. Regions used the Bloomberg USD US Bank BBB index to derive the market yield curve as of the valuation date to discount future expected cash flows to the valuation date. The discount rate used to value the preferred stock was 7.46%, based on this yield curve at a 5-year maturity. Dividends were assumed to be accrued until redemption. While the discounting was required based on a 5-year redemption, Regions did not have a 5-year security or similarly termed security available. As a result, it was necessary to use a benchmark yield curve to calculate the 5-year value. To determine the appropriate yield curve that was applicable to Regions, the yield to maturity on the outstanding debt instrument with the longest dated maturity (8.875% junior subordinated notes due June 2048) was compared to the longest point on the USD US Bank BBB index as of November 14, 2008. Regions concluded that the yield to maturity as of the valuation date of the debt, which was 11.03%, was consistent with the indicative yield of the curve noted above. The longest available point on this curve was 10.55% at 30 years.  

As part of its purchase of the preferred securities, the U.S. Treasury also received a warrant to purchase 48.3 million shares of Regions’ common stock at an exercise price of $10.88 per share, subject to anti-dilution and other adjustments. The warrant expires ten years from the issuance date. Regions used the Cox-Ross-Rubinstein Binomial Option Pricing Model (“CRR Model”) to value the warrant at the date of issuance. The CRR Model is a standard option pricing model which incorporates optimal early exercise in order to receive the benefit of future dividend payments. Based on the transferability of the warrant, the CRR Model approach that was applied assumes that the warrant holder will not sub-optimally exercise its warrant. The following assumptions were used in the CRR Model:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Closing stock price of Regions as of the valuation date (November 14, 2008).  

 (b) As outlined in the Warrant to Purchase Agreement, dated November 14, 2008.  

 (c) Expected volatility based on Regions’ historical volatility, as of November 14, 2008, over a look-back period of 10 years, commensurate with the terms of the warrant.  

 (d) The risk-free rate represents the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury Strips as of November 14, 2008.  

 (e) The dividend yield assumption was calculated based on a weighting of 30% on management’s dividend yield expectations for the next 3 years and a weighting of 70% on Regions’ average dividend yield over the 10 years prior to the valuation date.  

149  

Table of Contents 

The fair value allocation of the $3.5 billion between the preferred shares and the warrant resulted in $3.304 billion allocated to the preferred shares and $196 million allocated to the warrant. Accrued dividends on the Series A preferred shares reduced retained earnings by $175 million in 2009 and $23 million during 2008. The unamortized discount on the preferred shares was $157 million and $193 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Discount accretion on the preferred shares reduced retained earnings by $36 million during 2009 and $3 million in 2008. Both the preferred securities and the warrant will be accounted for as components of Regions’ regulatory Tier 1 Capital.  

On May 20, 2009 the Company issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (“Series B shares”), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million. Regions will pay annual dividends at a rate of 10% per share on the initial liquidation preference of $1,000.00 per share. Series B shares may be converted into common shares: 1) at December 15, 2010 (the “mandatory conversion date”); 2) prior to December 15, 2010 at the option of the holder; 3) upon occurrence of certain changes in ownership as defined in the offering documents; or 4) prior to December 15, 2010 at the option of the Company. At the mandatory conversion date, the Series B shares are subject to conversion into shares of Regions’ common stock with a per share conversion rate of not more than approximately 250 shares of common stock and not less than approximately 227 shares of common stock dependent upon the applicable market price, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. The Series B shares are not redeemable and rank senior to common stock and to each other class of capital stock established in the future, and on parity with the Series A preferred stock previously issued to the U.S. Treasury. If converted at December 31, 2009, approximately 61 million shares of Regions’ common stock would have been issued. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $19 million during 2009.  

On May 20, 2009, the Company issued 460 million shares of common stock at $4 per share, generating proceeds of $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs.  

In addition to the offerings mentioned above, the Company also exchanged approximately 33 million common shares for $202 million of outstanding 6.625% trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (“the Trust”) in the second quarter of 2009. The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders’ equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs.  

On January 18, 2007, Regions’ Board of Directors approved the repurchase of 50 million shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock. The common shares may be repurchased in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and will be taken into treasury. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2009 or 2008. Regions’ ability to repurchase shares is limited under the terms of the CPP mentioned above. Regions stock maintained within trust or brokerage accounts related to Company deferred compensation plans was recorded in treasury stock during 2009 and 2008. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were approximately 23.1 million shares remaining under this authorization.  

At December 31, 2009, there were 53,216,000 shares reserved for issuance under stock compensation plans. Stock options outstanding represent 52,969,000 shares and 247,000 shares are reserved for issuance under deferred compensation plans.  

In 2009, Regions decreased its dividend to $0.13 per common share, compared to $0.96 in 2008 and $1.46 in 2007. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above the current $0.01 for the foreseeable future.  

Comprehensive income (loss) is the total of net income (loss) and all other non-owner changes in equity. Items that are to be recognized under accounting standards as components of comprehensive income (loss) are displayed in the consolidated statements of changes in stockholders’ equity. In the calculation of comprehensive  

150  

Table of Contents 

 income (loss), certain reclassification adjustments are made to avoid double-counting items that are displayed as part of net income (loss) for a period that also had been displayed as part of other comprehensive income (loss) in that period or earlier periods.  

The disclosure of the reclassification amount for the years ended December 31 is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

151  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NOTE 16. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE  

The following table sets forth the computation of basic earnings (loss) per common share and diluted earnings (loss) per common share for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Certain per share amounts may not appear to reconcile due to rounding.  

152  

Table of Contents 

The effect from the assumed issuance of 61 million common shares upon conversion of mandatorily convertible preferred stock was not included in the above computations of diluted earnings (loss) per common share because such amounts would have had an antidilutive effect on earnings (loss) per common share for 2009 (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.) The effect from the assumed exercise of 53 million, 53 million and 31 million stock options was not included in the above computations of diluted earnings (loss) per common share for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, because such amounts would have had an antidilutive effect on earnings (loss) per common share.  

NOTE 17. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS  

Regions has stock option and long-term incentive compensation plans, which permit the granting of incentive awards in the form of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights. While Regions has the ability to issue stock appreciation rights, as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, there were no outstanding stock appreciation rights. The terms of all awards issued under these plans are determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, but no options may be granted after the tenth anniversary of the plans’ adoption. Options and restricted stock granted usually vest based on employee service and generally vest within three years from the date of the grant. Grants of performance-based restricted stock typically have a one-year performance period, after which shares vest within three years after the grant date. Restricted stock units, which were granted in 2008, have a vesting period of five years. Generally, the terms of these plans stipulate that the exercise price of options may not be less than the fair market value of Regions’ common stock at the date the options are granted; however, under prior stock option plans, non-qualified options could be granted with a lower exercise price than the fair market value of Regions’ common stock on the date of grant. The contractual life of options granted under these plans ranges from seven to ten years from the date of grant. Regions issues new shares from authorized reserves upon exercise. Grantees of restricted stock awards or units must either remain employed with the Company for certain periods from the date of grant in order for shares to be released or issued or retire after meeting the standards of a retiree, at which time shares would be prorated and released. Upon adoption of a new long-term incentive plan in 2006, Regions amended all other open stock and long-term incentive plans, such that no new awards may be granted under those plans subsequent to the amendment date. The outstanding awards were unaffected by this plan amendment. The plan adopted in 2006 provides that 20,000,000 common share equivalents are subject to and available for distribution to recipients. Each share of restricted stock granted under the 2006 plan is assigned a share equivalent factor of 4.0, as compared to the stock option equivalent factor of 1.0. The number of remaining share equivalents authorized for issuance under Regions’ long-term compensation plans was approximately 4,290,000 share equivalents at December 31, 2009.  

In 2009, Regions made a stock option grant that vests based upon a service condition and a market condition in addition to awards that were similar to prior grants. The fair value of these stock options was estimated on the date of the grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation method. The simulation generates a defined number of stock price paths in order to develop a reasonable estimate of the range of future expected stock prices and minimize standard error. For all other grants that vest solely upon a service condition, the fair value of stock options is estimated at the date of the grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and related assumptions.  

In connection with the AmSouth acquisition, Regions assumed AmSouth’s long-term incentive plans. The awards issued under these plans are consistent with the awards issued under Regions’ plans described above. However, all unvested awards vest upon the employee’s retirement. Also, in determining shares authorized, restricted stock grants are equally weighted with stock options. At December 31, 2009, approximately 3,358,000 shares were authorized for issuance under these assumed plans. In other business combinations prior to 2006, Regions assumed stock options that were previously granted by those companies and converted those options, based on the appropriate exchange ratio, into options to acquire Regions’ common stock. The common stock for such options has been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 by Regions and is not included in the maximum number of shares that may be granted by Regions under its existing stock option plans.  

153  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes the elements of compensation costs recognized in the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table summarizes the weighted-average assumptions used and the weighted-average estimated fair values related to stock options granted during the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Refer to Note 1 for a discussion of the methodologies used to derive the underlying assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The expected dividend yield decreased in 2009 based upon the market’s expectation of reduced dividends in the near term. During 2009, expected volatility increased based upon increases in the historical volatility of Regions’ stock price and the implied volatility measurements from traded options on the Company’s stock. The expected option life increased in 2009 due to changes in the employee grant base and employee exercise behavior.  

The following table summarizes the activity for 2009, 2008 and 2007 related to stock options:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 the total intrinsic value of options exercised was $0, $0, and $33 million, respectively.  

154  

Table of Contents 

In 2009, Regions granted 2.9 million restricted shares that vest based upon a service condition and a market condition in addition to awards that were similar to prior grants. The fair value of these restricted shares was estimated on the date of the grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation method. The assumptions related to this grant included expected volatility of 84.81%, expected dividend yield of 1.00%, and an expected term of 4.0 years based on the vesting term of the market condition. The risk-free rate is consistent with the assumption used to value stock options. For all other grants that vest solely upon a service condition, the fair value of the awards is estimated based upon the fair value of the underlying shares on the date of the grant.  

Restricted stock award and unit activity for 2009, 2008 and 2007 is summarized as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As of December 31, 2009, the pre-tax amount of non-vested stock options and restricted stock awards and units not yet recognized was $58 million, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.4 years. No share-based compensation costs were capitalized during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  

During 2009, Regions issued 645,683 cash-settled restricted stock units.  

NOTE 18. PENSION AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS  

PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS  

Regions has a defined-benefit pension plan (the “Regions pension plan”) covering substantially all employees employed on or before December 31, 2000. After January 1, 2001, the Regions pension plan was closed to new entrants. Benefits under the Regions pension plan are based on years of service and the employee’s highest five years of compensation during the last ten years of employment. Regions’ funding policy is to contribute annually at least the amount required by Internal Revenue Service minimum funding standards. Contributions are intended to provide not only for benefits attributed to service to date, but also for those expected to be earned in the future. The Company also sponsors a supplemental executive retirement program (the “Regions SERP”), which is a non-qualified plan that provides certain senior executive officers defined pension benefits in relation to their compensation. Regions also sponsors a defined-benefit postretirement health care plan that covers certain retired employees. Currently, the Company pays a portion of the costs of certain health care benefits for all eligible employees who retired before January 1, 1989. No health care benefits are provided for employees retiring at normal retirement age after December 31, 1988. For employees retiring before normal retirement age, the Company currently pays a portion of the costs of certain health care benefits until the retired employee becomes eligible for Medicare. Certain retirees, participating in plans of acquired entities, are offered a Medicare supplemental benefit. The plan is contributory and contains other cost-sharing features such  

155  

Table of Contents 

 as deductibles and co-payments. Retiree health care benefits, as well as similar benefits for active employees, are provided through a self-insured program in which Company and retiree costs are based on the amount of benefits paid. The Company’s policy is to fund the Company’s share of the cost of health care benefits in amounts determined at the discretion of management.  

As a result of the merger with AmSouth, Regions assumed the obligations related to AmSouth’s employee benefit plans. One of these assumed plans is a defined-benefit pension plan (the “AmSouth pension plan”) covering substantially all regular full-time employees and part-time employees who regularly work 1,000 hours or more each year and were employed at AmSouth at or before the merger. Subsequent to the merger, the AmSouth pension plan was closed to new participants. Regions also assumed AmSouth’s non-qualified supplemental executive retirement plan, which provides additional benefits to certain senior executives and is the Company’s current active non-qualified plan (the “SERP”). Effective September 30, 2007, the Regions pension plan and AmSouth pension plan were merged into one plan (the “pension plan”). The benefit structures of each former plan remain intact. All defined-benefit plans are referred to as “the plans” throughout the remainder of this footnote.  

Regions also assumed postretirement medical plans from AmSouth. These plans provide postretirement medical benefits to all former AmSouth employees who retire between the ages of 55 and 65 with five or more calendar years of service and provide certain retired and grandfathered retired participants with postretirement benefits past age 65. Postretirement life insurance is also provided to a grandfathered group of employees and retirees.  

Actuarially determined pension expense is charged to current operations using the projected unit credit method. Expense associated with the SERP and postretirement benefit plans is charged to current operations based on actuarial calculations.  

Regions transitioned from a September 30 measurement date to a December 31 measurement date during 2008. The effect of this transition was not material to the consolidated financial statements.  

Effective April 16, 2009, future benefit accruals under the pension plan and the SERP were suspended for all participants. Even during the suspension, participants continued to earn service towards vesting and eligibility for early retirement benefits. Effective January 1, 2010, these benefit accruals were reinstated for pension plan and SERP participants.  

156  

Table of Contents 

The following table sets forth the plans’ change in benefit obligation, plan assets and the funded status of the pension and other postretirement benefits plans, using a December 31 measurement date, and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The curtailment gains during 2008 resulted from merger-related employment terminations. The settlement payments during 2009 relate to the settlement of liabilities under the SERP for certain executive officers.  

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined-benefit plans was $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

157  

Table of Contents 

Information for the plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets as of December 31 was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net periodic benefit cost included the following components for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The estimated amounts that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost in 2010 are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31, 2009 and 2008 follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31 are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

158  

Table of Contents 

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on an estimated reasonable range of probable returns. Management chose a point within the range based on the probability of achievement combined with incremental returns attributable to active management.  

The assumed health care cost trend rate for postretirement medical benefits was 7.0% for 2009 and is assumed to decrease gradually to 4.5% by 2027 and remain at that level thereafter.  

A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The pension plan’s investment strategy is shifting from focusing on maximizing asset returns to minimizing funding ratio volatility, with an increase to the allocation to bonds. The target asset allocation is 43% equities, 32% fixed income securities and 25% in all other types of investments. Equity securities include investments in large and small/mid cap companies primarily located in the United States as well as investments in international equities. Fixed income securities include investments in corporate and government bonds, asset-backed securities and any other fixed income investments as allowed by respective prospectuses and other offering documents. Other types of investments may include hedge funds, real estate funds, and private equity funds that follow several different strategies. Plan assets are highly diversified with respect to asset class, security and manager. Investment risk is controlled with plan assets rebalancing to target allocations on a periodic basis and continual monitoring of investment manager’s performance relative to the investment guidelines established with each investment manager.  

The Regions pension plan has a portion of its investments in Regions common stock. The number of shares held by the plan was 2,839,446, which represents approximately 1.2% of the plan assets, at December 31, 2009, for a total market value of $15 million.  

The following table presents the fair value of Regions’ defined-benefit pension plans and other postretirement plan financial assets as of December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1) This amount includes the other postretirement plan financial assets of approximately $4 million.  

For all investments, quoted market prices of identical assets on active exchanges, or Level 1 measurements, are used if available. Where such quoted market prices are not available, quoted market prices of similar instruments (including matrix pricing) and/or discounted cash flows to estimate a value of these securities, or Level 2 measurements are utilized. Level 2 discounted cash flow analyses are typically based on market interest rates, prepayment speeds and/or option adjusted spreads. Level 3 measurements are based on assumptions that are not readily observable in the market place.  

159  

Table of Contents 

The following table illustrates a rollforward for pension plan financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the other postretirement plan had no Level 3 financial assets):  

Fair Value Measurements Using  

Significant Unobservable Inputs  

Year Ended December 31, 2009  

(Level 3 measurements only)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Information about the expected cash flows for the pension plan and other postretirement benefits plans is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

OTHER PLANS  

Regions has a defined-contribution 401(k) plan that historically included a company match of eligible employee contributions. Through March 31, 2009, this match totaled 100% of the eligible employee pre-tax contribution (up to 6% of compensation) after one year of service and was initially invested in Regions common stock. Matching contributions in the 401(k) plan were temporarily suspended beginning in the second quarter of 2009. Effective January 1, 2010, Regions restored matching contributions to the 401(k) plan to the pre-existing levels. Regions’ contribution to the 401(k) plan on behalf of employees totaled $18 million, $55 million and $72 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Regions’ 401(k) plan held 24 million and 17 million shares of Regions common stock at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the 401(k) plan received $5 million, $12 million and $20 million, respectively, in dividends on Regions common stock. Regions also assumed the AmSouth 401(k) plan as a result of the merger. Effective April 1, 2008, the Regions and AmSouth 401(k) plans were merged into one plan.  

160  

Table of Contents 

NOTE 19. OTHER NON-INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE  

The following is a detail of other non-interest income for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following is a detail of non-interest expense for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

161  

Table of Contents 

NOTE 20. INCOME TAXES  

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of Regions’ deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31 are listed below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As a result of the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment during 2008, Regions is currently in a three-year cumulative pre-tax loss position. Excluding the goodwill impairment, which is not treated as tax deductible, Regions would have had cumulative three-year pre-tax income of $669 million.  

Regions has carryback potential to taxable income in prior years allowed by the tax law and future reversal of taxable temporary differences. Due to Regions’ strong capital position and history of significant pre-tax earnings, management believes these projected future earnings will significantly exceed total deferred tax assets.  

Of the $1.8 billion gross deferred tax asset at December 31, 2009, only $38 million relating to tax credits (primarily affordable housing credits) has been recognized for tax purposes, which impose a 20 year expiration date by the operation of the United States tax law. The remaining gross deferred tax asset is produced by timing differences between GAAP and taxable income, a significant portion of which relates to allowances for loan losses. This portion of the gross deferred tax asset relates to items that have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore, do not have a set expiration as of December 31, 2009.  

Accordingly, except as noted below relating to certain state tax net operating losses, management continues to believe that it is more-likely-than-not that the federal and remaining state deferred tax assets are realizable.  

At December 31, 2009, Regions has state and federal net operating loss carryforwards of $3.0 billion that expire in years 2010 through 2029. Management does not believe that it can realize all of its state net operating loss carryforwards. Accordingly, a valuation allowance of $23 million has been established against such benefits.  

162  

Table of Contents 

Income taxes from continuing operations for financial reporting purposes differs from the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% for the years ended December 31, for the reasons below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

From time to time Regions engages in business plans that may also have an effect on its tax liabilities. While Regions has obtained the opinion of advisors that the tax aspects of these strategies should prevail, examination of Regions’ income tax returns or changes in tax law may impact the tax benefits of these plans.  

The provisions for income taxes from continuing operations charged to earnings are summarized for the years ended December 31 as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

UNCERTAIN TAX POSITIONS  

Regions and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the United States, as well as various state jurisdictions. As the successor of acquired taxpayers, Regions is responsible for the resolution of audits from both federal and state taxing authorities. In December 2008, the Company reached an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) Appeals Division on the Federal tax treatment of a broad range of uncertain tax positions. The agreement covered the Federal tax returns of Regions Financial Corporation, Union Planters Corporation and AmSouth Bancorporation for tax years 1999-2006. With few exceptions in certain jurisdictions,  

163  

Table of Contents 

 the Company is no longer subject to state and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2003, which would include audits of acquired entities. Certain states have proposed various adjustments to the Company’s previously filed tax returns. Management is currently evaluating those proposed adjustments; however, the Company does not anticipate the adjustments would result in a material change to its financial position or results of operations.  

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Essentially all of the Company’s liability for gross unrecognized tax benefits would reduce the Company’s effective tax rate, if recognized. As of December 31, 2009, Regions recognized a liability for interest on uncertain tax positions of $5 million on a pre-tax basis. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, Regions recognized interest expense on uncertain tax positions of $5 million, on a pre-tax basis. During 2009, the Company filed amended state and local income tax returns to reflect the agreement reached with the IRS for tax years 1999-2006. This accounted for a $52 million decrease in gross unrecognized tax benefits including interest, and a $26 million decrease related to various other state audit settlements.  

NOTE 21. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES  

Regions enters into derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk, facilitate asset/liability management strategies and manage other exposures. These derivative instruments primarily include interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, Eurodollar futures, forward rate contracts and forward sale commitments. All derivative financial instruments are recognized on the consolidated balance sheets as other assets or other liabilities, as applicable, at fair value. Regions enters into master netting agreements with counterparties and/or requires collateral based on counterparty credit ratings to cover exposures.  

Interest rate swaps are agreements to exchange interest payments based upon notional amounts. Interest rate swaps subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates, as well as the credit risk that the counterparty will fail to perform. Option contracts involve rights to buy or sell financial instruments on a specified date or over a period at a specified price. These rights do not have to be exercised. Some option contracts such as interest rate floors, involve the exchange of cash based on changes in specified indices. Interest rate floors are contracts to hedge interest rate declines based on a notional amount. Interest rate floors subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates, as well as the credit risk that the counterparty will fail to perform. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. Regions primarily enters into forward rate contracts on marketable instruments, which expose Regions to market risk associated with changes in the value of the underlying financial instrument, as well as the credit risk that the counterparty will fail to perform. Eurodollar futures are futures contracts on Eurodollar deposits. Eurodollar futures subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures.  

164  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents the fair value of derivative instruments on a gross basis as of December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Changes in fair value are cash-settled daily; therefore there is no ending balance at any given reporting period.  

HEDGING DERIVATIVES  

Derivatives entered into to manage interest rate risk and facilitate asset/liability management strategies are designated as hedging derivatives. Derivative financial instruments that qualify in a hedging relationship are classified, based on the exposure being hedged, as either fair value or cash flow hedges. The Company formally documents all hedging relationships between hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for entering into various hedge transactions. The Company performs periodic assessments to determine whether the hedging relationship has been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items and whether the relationship is expected to continue to be highly effective in the future.  

When a hedge is terminated or hedge accounting is discontinued because the hedged item no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment, or because it is probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the specified time period, the derivative will continue to be recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in other non-interest income. Any asset or liability that was recorded pursuant to recognition of the firm commitment is removed from the consolidated balance sheets and recognized currently in other non-interest expense. Gains and losses that were accumulated in other comprehensive income pursuant to the hedge of a forecasted transaction are recognized immediately in other non-interest expense.  

165  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents the effect of derivative instruments on the statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) After-tax  

 (2) Pre-tax  

FAIR VALUE HEDGES  

Fair value hedge relationships mitigate exposure to the change in fair value of an asset, liability or firm commitment. Under the fair value hedging model, gains or losses attributable to the change in fair value of the derivative instrument, as well as the gains and losses attributable to the change in fair value of the hedged item, are recognized in earnings in the period in which the change in fair value occurs. The corresponding adjustment to the hedged asset or liability is included in the basis of the hedged item, while the corresponding change in the fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded as an adjustment to other assets or other liabilities, as applicable. Hedge ineffectiveness exists to the extent the changes in fair value of the derivative do not offset the changes in fair value of the hedged item as other non-interest expense.  

Regions enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate exposure on the Company’s fixed-rate borrowings, which includes long-term debt and certificates of deposit. These agreements involve the receipt of fixed-rate amounts in exchange for floating-rate interest payments over the life of the agreements. As of December 31, 2009, the total notional amount of the Company’s interest rate swaps designated in fair value hedges was $10.3 billion.  

CASH FLOW HEDGES   

Cash flow hedge relationships mitigate exposure to the variability of future cash flows or other forecasted transactions. For cash flow hedge relationships, the effective portion of the gain or loss related to the derivative instrument is recognized as a component of other comprehensive income. Ineffectiveness is measured by  

166  

Table of Contents 

 comparing the change in fair value of the respective derivative instrument and the change in fair value of a “perfectly effective” hypothetical derivative instrument. Ineffectiveness will be recognized in earnings only if it results from an overhedge. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss related to the derivative instrument, if any, is recognized in the statement of operations as other non-interest expense during the period of change. Amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income are recognized in earnings in the period or periods during which the hedged item impacts earnings.  

Regions enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage overall cash flow changes related to interest rate risk exposure on LIBOR-based loans. The agreements effectively modify the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing receive fixed/pay LIBOR interest rate swaps. As of December 31, 2009, the total notional amount of the Company’s interest rate swaps hedging cash flows on LIBOR-based loans was $4.3 billion.  

Regions issues long-term fixed-rate debt for various funding needs. Regions enters into receive LIBOR/pay-fixed forward starting swaps to hedge risks of changes in the projected quarterly interest payments attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate (LIBOR) during the time leading up to the probable issuance date of the new long term fixed-rate debt. As of December 31, 2009, the total notional amount of the Company’s forward-starting swaps was $1.0 billion.  

Regions enters into interest rate option contracts to protect cash flows through the maturity date of the hedging instrument on designated one-month LIBOR floating-rate loans from adverse extreme market interest rate changes. As of December 31, 2009, the total notional amount of the Company’s interest rate options was $2.0 billion.  

Regions purchases Eurodollar futures to hedge the variability in future cash flows based on forecasted resets of one-month LIBOR-based floating rate loans due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. As of December 31, 2009, the total notional amount of the Company’s Eurodollar futures was $30.2 billion.  

Regions entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage overall cash flow changes related to interest rate risk exposure on prime-based loans. The agreements effectively modified the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing receive fixed/pay prime interest rate swaps. As of December 31, 2009, Regions had no active hedges on prime-based loans.  

Regions realized an after-tax benefit of $13 million in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2009, related to terminated cash flow hedges of loan and debt instruments which will be amortized into earnings in conjunction with the recognition of interest payments through 2012. Regions recognized pre-tax income of $39 million during 2009 related to this amortization.  

Regions expects to reclassify out of other comprehensive income and into earnings approximately $189 million in pre-tax income due to the receipt of interest payments on all cash flow hedges within the next twelve months. Of this amount, $19 million relates to the amortization of discontinued cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which Regions is hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions is approximately two years as of December 31, 2009.  

TRADING DERIVATIVES  

Derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are classified as trading with gains and losses related to the change in fair value recognized in the statement of operations during the period.  

The Company maintains a derivatives trading portfolio of interest rate swaps, option contracts, and futures and forward commitments used to meet the needs of its customers. The portfolio is used to generate trading profit and to help clients manage market risk. The Company is subject to the credit risk that a counterparty will fail to perform. The Company is also subject to market risk, which is evaluated by the Company and monitored by the  

167  

Table of Contents 

 asset/liability management function. Separate derivative contracts are entered into to reduce overall market exposure to pre-defined limits. The contracts in this portfolio do not qualify for hedge accounting and are marked-to-market through earnings and included in other assets and other liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, the total absolute notional amount of the Company’s derivatives trading portfolio was $63.9 billion.  

In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments on U.S. Government and municipal securities. As of December 31, 2009, no forward and future commitments were held. The brokerage subsidiary typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on the subsidiary’s financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. The exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility.  

Regions enters into interest rate lock commitments, which are commitments to originate mortgage loans whereby the interest rate on the loan is determined prior to funding and the customers have locked into that interest rate. At December 31, 2009, Regions had $368 million in total notional amount of rate lock commitments. Regions manages market risk on interest rate lock commitments and mortgage loans held for sale with corresponding forward sale commitments, which are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage income. At December 31, 2009, Regions had $1.1 billion in total absolute notional amount related to these forward rate commitments.  

On January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to account for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Concurrent with the election to use the fair value measurement method, Regions began using various derivative instruments, in the form of forward rate commitments and futures contracts, to mitigate the statement of operations effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. As of December 31, 2009, the total notional amount related to these contracts was $275 million.  

The following table presents information for derivatives not designated as hedging instruments in the statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Credit risk, defined as all positive exposures not collateralized with cash or other assets, at December 31, 2009, totaled approximately $956 million. This amount represents the net credit risk on all trading and other derivative positions held by Regions.  

168  

Table of Contents 

CREDIT DERIVATIVES  

Regions has both bought and sold credit protection in the form of participations on interest rate swaps (swap participations). These swap participations, which meet the definition of credit derivatives, were entered into in the ordinary course of business to serve the credit needs of customers. Credit derivatives, whereby Regions has purchased credit protection, entitle Regions to receive a payment from the counterparty when the customer fails to make payment on any amounts due to Regions upon early termination of the swap transaction and have maturities between 2012 and 2026. Credit derivatives whereby Regions has sold credit protection have maturities between 2010 and 2015. For contracts where Regions sold credit protection, Regions would be required to make payment to the counterparty when the customer fails to make payment on any amounts due to the counterparty upon early termination of the swap transaction. Regions bases the current status of the prepayment/performance risk on bought and sold credit derivatives on recently issued internal risk ratings consistent with the risk management practices of unfunded commitments.  

Regions’ maximum potential amount of future payments under these contracts is approximately $49 million. This scenario would only occur if variable interest rates were at zero percent and all counterparties defaulted with zero recovery. The fair value of sold protection at December 31, 2009, was immaterial. In transactions where Regions has sold credit protection, recourse to collateral associated with the original swap transaction is available to offset some or all of Regions’ obligation.  

CONTINGENT FEATURES  

Certain Regions’ derivative instruments contain provisions that require Regions Bank’s debt to maintain an investment grade credit rating from major credit rating agencies. If Regions Bank’s debt were to fall below investment grade, it would be in violation of these provisions, and the counterparties to the derivative instruments could request immediate payment or demand immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization on derivative instruments in net liability positions. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a liability position on December 31, 2009, was $347 million, for which Regions had posted collateral of $336 million in the normal course of business. If the credit-risk-related contingent features underlying these agreements were triggered on December 31, 2009, Regions would be required to post an additional $11 million of collateral to its counterparties.  

NOTE 22. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  

Authoritative accounting literature establishes a framework for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities and defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price). A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Required disclosures include stratification of balance sheet amounts measured at fair value based on inputs the Company uses to derive fair value measurements. These strata include:  

   •    Level 1 valuations, where the valuation is based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (which include exchanges and over-the-counter markets with sufficient volume),  

   •    Level 2 valuations, where the valuation is based on quoted market prices for similar instruments traded in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market, and  

   •    Level 3 valuations, where the valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company-specific data. These  

169  

Table of Contents 

 unobservable assumptions reflect the Company’s own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability.  

ITEMS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE ON A RECURRING BASIS  

Trading account assets, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, and derivatives were recorded at fair value on a recurring basis during 2009 and 2008. Mortgage servicing rights were recorded at fair value on a recurring basis during 2009 and at lower of aggregate cost or estimated fair value during 2008. Below is a description of valuation methodologies for these assets and liabilities.  

Trading account assets, net and securities available for sale primarily consist of U.S. Treasuries, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities (including agency securities), municipal bonds and equity securities (primarily common stock and mutual funds). Regions uses quoted market prices of identical assets on active exchanges, or Level 1 measurements. Where such quoted market prices are not available, Regions typically employs quoted market prices of similar instruments (including matrix pricing) and/or discounted cash flows to estimate a value of these securities, or Level 2 measurements. Level 2 discounted cash flow analyses are typically based on market interest rates, prepayment speeds and/or option adjusted spreads. Level 3 measurements include discounted cash flow analyses based on assumptions that are not readily observable in the market place. Such assumptions include projections of future cash flows, including loss assumptions, and discount rates. Trading assets are presented net of short-sale liabilities which are valued based on the fair value of the underlying securities.  

Mortgage loans held for sale consist of residential first mortgage loans held for sale that are valued based on traded market prices of similar assets where available and/or discounted cash flows at market interest rates, adjusted for securitization activities that include servicing value and market conditions, a Level 2 measurement. Regions has elected to measure mortgage loans held for sale at fair value by applying the fair value option (see additional discussion under the “Fair Value Option” section below).  

Mortgage servicing rights consist of residential mortgage servicing rights and were valued during 2009 using an option-adjusted spread valuation approach. During 2008, mortgage servicing rights were valued by projecting and discounting future cash flows. Various assumptions including future cash flows, market discount rates, expected prepayment rates, servicing costs and other factors are used in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights, and therefore are Level 3 measurements. As discussed in Note 1, on January 1, 2009, the Company made an election to prospectively change the policy of accounting for mortgage servicing rights under the fair value method. Prior to this date, mortgage servicing rights were accounted for under the amortization method and adjusted to the lower of aggregate cost or estimated fair value as appropriate.  

Derivatives, net which primarily consist of interest rate contracts that include futures, options and swaps, are included in other assets and other liabilities (as applicable) on the consolidated balance sheets, and are presented in the tables below as a net amount. For exchange-traded options and futures contracts, values are based on quoted market prices, or Level 1 measurements. For all other options and futures contracts traded in over-the-counter markets, values are determined using discounted cash flow analyses and option pricing models based on market rates and volatilities, or Level 2 measurements. Interest rate lock commitments on loans intended for sale, treasury locks and credit derivatives are valued using option pricing models that incorporate significant unobservable inputs, and therefore are Level 3 measurements.  

Interest rate swaps are predominantly traded in over-the-counter markets and, as such, values are determined using widely accepted discounted cash flow models, or Level 2 measurements. These discounted cash flow models use projections of future cash payments/receipts that are discounted at mid-market rates. These valuations are adjusted for the unsecured credit risk at the reporting date, which considers collateral posted and the impact of master netting agreements.  

170  

Table of Contents 

The following tables presents financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2009 and 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Beginning in 2009, the Company made an election to prospectively change the policy of accounting for mortgage servicing rights to the fair value method. Prior to this date, mortgage servicing rights were accounted for under the amortization method and adjusted to the lower of aggregate cost or estimated fair value as appropriate.  

 (2) Derivatives include approximately $966 million related to legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Company to settle positive and negative positions. Derivatives, net are also presented excluding cash collateral received of $70 million and cash collateral posted of $336 million with counterparties.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Derivatives include approximately $1.6 billion related to legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Company to settle positive and negative positions. Derivatives, net are also presented excluding cash collateral received of $108 million and cash collateral posted of $451 million with counterparties.  

Assets and liabilities in all levels could result in volatile and material price fluctuations. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on Level 3 assets represent only a portion of the risk to market fluctuations in Regions’ balance sheets. Further, trading account assets, net and derivatives, net included in Levels 1, 2 and 3 are used by the Asset and Liability Management Committee of the Company in a holistic approach to managing price fluctuation risks.  

The following tables illustrates a rollforward for all assets and (liabilities) measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Brokerage income from trading account assets, net, primarily represents gains/(losses) on disposition, which inherently includes commissions on security transactions during the period.  

171  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Brokerage income from trading account assets, net, primarily represents gains/(losses) on disposition, which inherently includes commissions on security transactions during the period.  

The following tables details the presentation of both realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in earnings for Level 3 assets and liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Brokerage income from trading account assets, net, primarily represents gains/(losses) on disposition, which inherently includes commissions on security transactions during the period.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Brokerage income from trading account assets, net, primarily represents gains/(losses) on dispositions, which inherently includes commissions on security transactions during the period.  

172  

Table of Contents 

The following table details the presentation of only unrealized gains and losses recorded in earnings for Level 3 assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

ITEMS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE ON A NON-RECURRING BASIS  

From time to time, certain assets may be recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis. These non-recurring fair value adjustments typically are a result of the application of lower of cost or fair value accounting or a write-down occurring during the period. For example, if the fair value of an asset in these categories falls below its cost basis, it is considered to be at fair value at the end of the period of the adjustment. In periods where there is no adjustment, the asset is generally not considered to be at fair value. The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for certain assets that are recorded at fair value.  

Loans held for sale for which the fair value option has not been elected are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value and therefore are reported at fair value on a non-recurring basis. The fair values for loans held for sale that are based on either observable transactions of similar instruments or formally committed loan sale prices or valuations performed using discounted cash flows with observable inputs are classified as a Level 2 measurement. In the event that neither of these measurements is available, valuations are performed using discounted cash flows with unobservable inputs and therefore such valuations are classified as a Level 3 measurement.  

Foreclosed property and other real estate is carried in other assets at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less estimated costs to sell the property. The fair value for foreclosed property that is based on either observable transactions of similar instruments or formally committed sale prices is classified as a Level 2 measurement.   

173  

Table of Contents 

In addition to the assets currently measured at fair value mentioned above, Regions often uses fair value measurements in determining the period-end balance of certain financial instruments such as non-marketable investments. Typically, these assets use fair value measurements to determine the recorded lower of cost or fair value of the asset or to determine the losses incurred during the period.  

The following tables present the carrying value of those assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, as well as the corresponding fair value adjustments. The table does not reflect the change in fair value attributable to any related economic hedges the Company used to mitigate the interest rate risk associated with these assets.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Beginning in 2009, due to issuance of new accounting guidance, non-financial assets and liabilities were required to be reported with non-recurring fair value measurements.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Beginning in 2009, the Company made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for mortgage servicing rights to fair value. Prior to this date, mortgage servicing rights were accounted for under the amortization method and adjusted to the lower of aggregate cost or estimated fair value as appropriate. Accordingly, prior to the change, lower of cost or fair value adjustments to mortgage servicing rights were considered non-recurring fair value adjustments.  

FAIR VALUE OPTION  

Regions adopted the fair value option for certain financial assets and financial liabilities as of January 1, 2008. The fair value option allows an entity the irrevocable option to elect fair value for the initial and subsequent measurement for certain financial assets and liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis. Additionally, the fair value option requires the difference between the carrying value before election of the fair value option and the fair value of these financial instruments be recorded as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the period of adoption. There was no material effect of adoption on the consolidated financial statements.  

Regions elected the fair value option for residential mortgage loans held for sale originated after January 1, 2008. This election allows for a more effective offset of the changes in fair values of the loans and the derivative instruments used to economically hedge them without the burden of complying with the requirements for hedge accounting. Regions has not elected the fair value option for other loans held for sale primarily because they are not economically hedged using derivative instruments. Fair values of loans held for sale are based on traded market prices of similar assets where available and/or discounted cash flows at market interest rates, adjusted for securitization activities that include servicing values and market conditions. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, loans held for sale for which the fair value option was elected had an aggregate fair value of $780 million and $506 million, respectively, and an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $773 million and $492 million, respectively, and were recorded in loans held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet. Interest income on mortgage loans held for sale is recognized based on contractual rates and reflected in interest income on loans  

174  

Table of Contents 

 held for sale in the consolidated statements of operations. Net gains (losses) resulting from changes in fair value of these loans of $7 million and $16 million, respectively, were recorded in mortgage income in the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. These changes in fair value are mostly offset by economic hedging activities. An immaterial portion of this amount was attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit risk.  

The election of the fair value option impacts the timing and recognition of servicing value, as well as origination fees and costs. The servicing value of a loan was precluded from being recognized until the sale of the loan prior to the election of the fair value option. After adoption of the fair value option, this value is recognized in the statement of operations at the time of origination. Origination fees and costs for mortgage loans held for sale, which had been previously deferred, are now recognized in the statement of operations at the time of origination. Prior to the election of the fair value option, net loan origination costs for mortgage loans held for sale were capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the loans and recognized as a reduction of mortgage income upon the sale of such loans. Approximately $10 million of loan servicing value was recognized in non-interest income during 2008 related to the adoption of the fair value option. The net impact of ceasing deferrals of origination fees and costs during 2008 related to the adoption of the fair value option was not material.  

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  

The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating fair values of financial instruments that are not disclosed above:  

Cash and cash equivalents: The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets and cash flows approximate the estimated fair values.  

Securities held to maturity: Estimated fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not available, estimated fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments and/or discounted cash flow analyses.  

Loans, net: The fair values of loans, excluding leases, are estimated based on groupings of similar loans by type, interest rate, and borrower creditworthiness. Discounted future cash flow analyses are performed for the groupings incorporating assumptions of current and projected prepayment speeds. Discount rates are determined using the Company’s current origination rates on similar loans, adjusted for changes in current liquidity and credit spreads (if necessary) observed in market pricing.  

Other interest-earning assets: The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets approximate the estimated fair values.  

Deposits: The fair value of non-interest bearing demand accounts, interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts and certain other time deposit accounts is the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., the carrying amount). Fair values for certificates of deposit are estimated by using discounted cash flow analyses, based on market spreads to benchmark rates.  

Short-term and long-term borrowings: The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings reported in the consolidated balance sheets approximate the estimated fair values. The fair values of long-term borrowings are estimated using quoted market prices. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using discounted future cash flow analyses based on current interest rates, liquidity and credit spreads.  

Loan commitments and letters of credit: The estimated fair values for these off-balance sheet instruments are based on probabilities of funding to project expected future cash flows, which are discounted using the loan methodology described above. The premium/discounts are adjusted for the time value of money over the average remaining life of the commitments and the opportunity cost associated with regulatory requirements.  

175  

Table of Contents 

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments as of December 31 are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Estimated fair values are consistent with an exit price concept. The assumptions used to estimate the fair values are intended to approximate those that a market participant would use in a hypothetical orderly transaction. In estimating fair value, the Company makes adjustments for interest rates, market liquidity and credit spreads as appropriate.  

 (2) The estimated fair value of portfolio loans assumes sale of the notes to a third-party financial investor. Accordingly, the value to the Company if the notes were held to maturity is not reflected in the fair value estimate. In the current whole loan market, given the lack of market liquidity, financial investors are generally requiring a much higher rate of return than the return inherent in loans if held to maturity. The fair value discount at December 31, 2009 of $13.3 billion or 15.6% includes an estimated $9.6 billion or approximately 72% of the fair value discount, which represents the higher rate of return required by financial investors.  

 (3) Excluded from this table is the lease carrying amount of $2.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2008, which approximates fair value.  

NOTE 23. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION  

Regions’ segment information is presented based on Regions’ key segments of business. Each segment is a strategic business unit that serves specific needs of Regions’ customers. The Company’s primary segment is General Banking/Treasury, which represents the Company’s branch network, including consumer and commercial banking functions, and has separate management that is responsible for the operation of that business unit. This segment also includes the Company’s Treasury function, including the Company’s securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. Prior to year-end 2008, Regions had reported an Other segment that included merger charges and the parent company. Regions realigned to include the parent company with General Banking/Treasury as parent company transactions essentially support the Treasury function. The 2008 and 2007 amounts presented below have been adjusted to conform to the 2009 presentation.  

In addition to General Banking/Treasury, Regions has designated as distinct reportable segments the activity of its Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance divisions. Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust includes trust activities and all brokerage and investment activities associated with Morgan Keegan. Insurance includes all business associated with commercial insurance and credit life products sold to consumer customers.  

176  

Table of Contents 

The reportable segment designated Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations includes merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition and the results of EquiFirst (see Note 3) for the periods presented. These amounts are excluded from other reportable segments because management reviews the results of the other reportable segments excluding these items.  

The following tables present financial information for each reportable segment for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

177  

Table of Contents 

NOTE 24. COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND GUARANTEES  

COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS  

Regions issues off-balance sheet financial instruments in connection with lending activities. The credit risk associated with these instruments is essentially the same as that involved in extending loans to customers and is subject to Regions’ credit policies. Regions measures inherent risk associated with these instruments by recording a reserve for unfunded commitments based on an assessment of the likelihood that the guarantee will be funded and the creditworthiness of the customer or counterparty. Collateral is obtained based on management’s assessment of the customer.  

Credit risk associated with these instruments as of December 31 is based upon the contractual amounts indicated in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Unused commitments to extend credit—To accommodate the financial needs of its customers, Regions makes commitments under various terms to lend funds to consumers, businesses and other entities. These commitments include (among others) revolving credit agreements, term loan commitments and short-term borrowing agreements. Many of these loan commitments have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. Since many of these commitments are expected to expire without being funded, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future liquidity requirements.  

Standby letters of credit—Standby letters of credit are also issued to customers, which commit Regions to make payments on behalf of customers if certain specified future events occur. Regions has recourse against the customer for any amount required to be paid to a third party under a standby letter of credit. Historically, a large percentage of standby letters of credit expire without being funded. The current credit environment has resulted in increased fundings of standby letters of credit. The contractual amount of standby letters of credit represents the maximum potential amount of future payments Regions could be required to make and represents Regions’ maximum credit risk. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Regions had $119 million and $118 million, respectively, of liabilities associated with standby letter of credit agreements, with related assets of $114 million and $108 million, respectively.  

Commercial letters of credit—Commercial letters of credit are issued to facilitate foreign or domestic trade transactions for customers. As a general rule, drafts will be drawn when the goods underlying the transaction are in transit.  

The reserve for all of these off-balance sheet financial instruments was $74 million at both December 31, 2009 and 2008.  

LEASES  

Operating leases—Regions and its subsidiaries lease land, premises and equipment under cancelable and non-cancelable leases, some of which contain renewal options under various terms. The leased properties are used primarily for banking purposes. Total rental expense on operating leases for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $213 million, $194 million and $198 million, respectively.  

178  

Table of Contents 

The approximate future minimum rental commitments as of December 31, 2009, for all non-cancelable leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or more are shown in the following table. Included in these amounts are all renewal options reasonably assured of being exercised.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sale-leaseback transaction—In 2005, Regions sold 111 properties to a third party with an agreement to lease back a portion of 99 of these properties. The remaining 12 properties were not leased back by Regions. Of the 99 properties that included a leaseback, 20 of the properties qualified for sale-leaseback accounting. The other 79 properties included lease terms that require lease payments that are significantly more heavily weighted toward the early years of the fifteen-year lease term (approximately 60% in excess of the calculated straight-line rental amount). This constituted additional collateral or financing to the buyer-lessor and effectively resulted in Regions having a continuing involvement in these 79 properties, requiring Regions to account for these properties as a financing arrangement. Accordingly, the properties continue to be reflected on the Company’s balance sheet and depreciated based on their current carrying value. Proceeds of $83.1 million attributable to these properties were reflected as a financing obligation with monthly rental payments due, reflected as a component of principal reduction and interest expense at the Company’s incremental borrowing rate. The approximate total future minimum rental commitment as of December 31, 2009, for all leases related to this transaction is $63.4 million, including $8.4 million in 2010, $5.2 million in 2011, $5.4 million in 2012, $5.5 million in 2013 and $5.6 million in 2014.  

LEGAL  

Regions and its affiliates are subject to litigation, including the litigation discussed below, and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Punitive damages are routinely claimed in these cases. Regions continues to be concerned about the general trend in litigation involving large damage awards against financial service company defendants. Regions evaluates these contingencies based on information currently available, including advice of counsel and assessment of available insurance coverage. Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate resolution or financial liability with respect to these litigation contingencies, management is currently of the opinion that the outcome of pending and threatened litigation would not have a material effect on Regions’ consolidated financial position or results of operations, except to the extent indicated in the discussion below.  

Regions and certain of its affiliates have been named in class-action lawsuits filed in federal and state courts on behalf of investors who purchased shares of certain Regions Morgan Keegan Select Funds (the “Funds”) and shareholders of Regions. The Funds were formerly managed by Morgan Asset Management, Inc. The complaints contain various allegations, including claims that the Funds and the defendants misrepresented or failed to disclose material facts relating to the activities of the Funds. No class has been certified, and at this stage of the lawsuits Regions cannot determine the probability of a material adverse result or reasonably estimate a range of potential exposures, if any. However, it is possible that an adverse resolution of these matters may be material to Regions’ consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

Certain of the shareholders in these Funds and other interested parties have entered into arbitration proceedings and individual civil claims, in lieu of participating in the class actions. Although it is not possible to  

179  

Table of Contents 

 predict the ultimate resolution or financial liability with respect to these contingencies, management is currently of the opinion that the outcome of these proceedings would not have a material effect on Regions’ consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

In July 2009, Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (“Morgan Keegan”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions, Morgan Asset Management, Inc. and three employees each received a Wells notice from the Staff of the Atlanta Regional Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) stating that the Staff intends to recommend that the Commission bring enforcement actions for possible violations of the federal securities laws. The potential actions relate to the Staff’s investigation of the Funds. Additionally, in July 2009, Morgan Keegan received a Wells notice from the enforcement staff of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) advising Morgan Keegan that it had made a preliminary determination to recommend disciplinary action against Morgan Keegan for violation of various NASD rules relating to sales of the Funds during 2006 and 2007. A Wells notice is neither a formal allegation nor a finding of wrongdoing. The notices provide the recipients the opportunity to provide their perspective and to address issues raised prior to any formal action being taken by the SEC or FINRA. Responses have been submitted to both the SEC and FINRA notices. Also, a joint state task force has indicated that it is considering charges against Morgan Keegan, related entities and certain of their officers in connection with sales of the Funds. Discussions are ongoing with the state securities commissioners in the task force about the proposed charges and possible resolutions. Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate resolution or financial liability with respect to these matters, management is currently of the opinion that the outcome of these matters will not have a material effect on Regions’ business, consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

In March 2009, Morgan Keegan received a Wells notice from the SEC’s Atlanta Regional Office related to auction rate securities (“ARS”) indicating that the SEC staff intended to recommend that the Commission take civil action against Morgan Keegan. On July 21, 2009, the SEC filed a complaint in United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against Morgan Keegan alleging violations of the federal securities laws in connection with ARS that Morgan Keegan underwrote, marketed and sold. The SEC is seeking an injunction against Morgan Keegan for violations of the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws, as well as disgorgement, financial penalties and other equitable relief for customers, including repurchase by Morgan Keegan of all ARS that it sold prior to March 20, 2008. Beginning in February 2009, Morgan Keegan commenced a voluntary program to repurchase ARS that it underwrote and sold to the firm’s customers, and extended that repurchase program on October 1, 2009 to include certain ARS that were sold by Morgan Keegan to its customers but were underwritten by other firms. As of December 31, 2009, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $247 million of ARS and Morgan Keegan held approximately $166 million of ARS on its balance sheet. On July 21, 2009, the Alabama Securities Commission issued a “Show Cause” order to Morgan Keegan arising out of the ARS matter that is the subject of the SEC complaint described above. The order requires Morgan Keegan to show cause why its registration as a broker-dealer should not be suspended or revoked in the State of Alabama and also why it should not be subject to disgorgement, repurchasing all ARS sold to Alabama residents and payment of costs and penalties. Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate resolution or financial liability with respect to the ARS matter, management is currently of the opinion that the outcome of this matter will not have a material effect on Regions’ business, consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

In April 2009, Regions, Regions Financing Trust III (the “Trust”) and certain of Regions’ current and former directors, were named in a purported class-action lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of the purchasers of trust preferred securities offered by the Trust. The complaint alleges that defendants made statements in Regions’ registration statement, prospectus and year-end filings which were materially false and misleading. No class has been certified, and at this stage of the lawsuit Regions cannot determine the probability of a material adverse result or reasonably estimate a range of potential exposures, if any. However, it is possible that an adverse resolution of these matters may be material to Regions’ business, consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

180  

Table of Contents 

In December 2009, Regions and certain current and former directors and officers were named in a consolidated shareholder derivative action filed in Jefferson County, Alabama. The complaint alleges mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment relating to bonuses and other benefits received by executive management. Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate resolution or financial liability with respect to this matter, management is currently of the opinion that the outcome of this matter will not have a material effect on Regions' business, consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

GUARANTEES  

As a member of the Visa USA network, Regions, along with other members, indemnified Visa USA against litigation. On October 3, 2007, Visa USA was restructured and acquired several Visa affiliates. In conjunction with this restructuring, Regions’ indemnification of Visa USA was modified to cover five specific cases (“covered litigation”). Certain of the covered litigation has been settled or Visa has recorded a liability for it, and, accordingly, Regions has recorded its pro-rata share. Additionally, this modification required Regions to recognize a liability at fair value for Regions’ share of the indemnification for the covered litigation that has not been settled or accrued by Visa. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, Regions’ liability recognized under this indemnification was approximately $27 million and $51 million, respectively.  

On March 25, 2008, Visa executed an initial public offering (“IPO”) of common stock and, in connection with the IPO, Regions’ ownership interest in Visa was converted into Class B common stock of approximately 3.8 million shares. On March 28, 2008, Visa redeemed approximately 1.5 million shares of the Class B common stock from Regions for proceeds of approximately $63 million, all of which was recorded as “Other Income” in the consolidated statements of operations. The Class B common stock is subject to a restriction period of the lesser of three years from the date of the IPO or settlement of all covered litigation. The number of shares of Class B common stock may also be adjusted by Visa, depending on the outcome of the covered litigation.  

In the second quarter of 2009, Regions sold the Visa Class B common stock to a third party. The sale resulted in a gain of $80 million.  

A portion of Visa’s proceeds from the IPO, totaling $3.0 billion, was escrowed to fund the covered litigation. To the extent that the amount available under the escrow arrangement is insufficient to fully resolve the covered litigation, Visa will enforce the indemnification obligations of Visa USA’s members for any excess amount. During 2008, Visa settled its lawsuit with American Express for approximately $2.25 billion. Additionally, Visa agreed to settle litigation with Discover Financial, and the portion of the settlement funded from the escrow account is approximately $1.74 billion. As a result, Visa reduced the conversion rate applicable to Class B common stock outstanding and an additional $1.1 billion was deposited into the escrow account. As of December 31, 2008, Regions’ remaining investment totaled approximately 1.5 million shares with a cost basis of zero. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, Regions reduced expenses by approximately $13 million and $28 million, respectively, which represents the Company’s proportionate economic interest in the escrow account to settle the litigation liability.  

181  

Table of Contents 

NOTE 25. PARENT COMPANY ONLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Presented below are condensed financial statements of Regions Financial Corporation:  

Balance Sheets  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

182  

Table of Contents 

Statements of Operations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

183  

Table of Contents 

Statements of Cash Flows  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

184  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure