PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Kimberly-Clark Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1928. We are a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life through product innovation and building our personal care, consumer tissue, K-C Professional and health care brands. We are principally engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of a wide range of products mostly made from natural or synthetic fibers using advanced technologies in fibers, nonwovens and absorbency. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms "Corporation," "Kimberly-Clark," "K-C," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Kimberly-Clark Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

For financial information by business segment and geographic area, including revenue, profit and total assets of each reportable segment, and information about our principal products and markets, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" ("MD&A") and Item 8, Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted. 

Recent Developments

In November 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized management to pursue a potential tax-free spin-off of our health care business, consisting primarily of the Health Care segment described below. A spin-off would create a stand-alone, publicly traded health care company with approximately $1.6 billion in annual net sales, focused on the sale of surgical and infection prevention products for the operating room and other medical supplies, and medical devices focused on pain management, respiratory and digestive health. We expect that the spin-off would be in the form of a tax-free distribution of 100 percent of the new company’s common stock to Kimberly-Clark shareholders.

Although our current target is to complete the spin-off by the end of the third quarter of 2014, there are no assurances as to when the proposed spin-off will be completed, if at all, or if the spin-off will be completed based on the expected plans.

Description of Kimberly-Clark

We are organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into four reportable global business segments. Information on these four segments, as well as their principal sources of revenue, is included below.

•Personal Care brands offer parents a trusted partner in caring for their families and deliver confidence, protection and discretion to adults through a wide variety of innovative solutions and products such as disposable diapers, training and youth pants, swimpants, baby wipes, feminine and incontinence care products, and other related products. Products in this segment are sold under the Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, DryNites, Kotex, U by Kotex, Intimus, Depend, Plenitud, Poise and other brand names.

•Consumer Tissue offers a wide variety of innovative solutions and trusted brands that touch and improve people's lives every day. Products in this segment include facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins and related products, and are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Viva, Andrex, Scottex, Neve and other brand names.

•K-C Professional ("KCP") helps transform workplaces for employees and patrons, making them healthier, safer and more productive, through a range of solutions and supporting products such as apparel, wipers, soaps, sanitizers, tissue and towels. Key brands in this segment include Kleenex, Scott, WypAll, Kimtech and Jackson Safety. 

•Health Care provides essentials that help restore patients to better health and improve the quality of patients' lives. This segment offers surgical and infection prevention products for the operating room, and a portfolio of innovative medical devices focused on pain management, respiratory and digestive health. This business is a global leader in education to prevent healthcare-associated infections. Products are sold primarily under the Kimberly-Clark and ON-Q brand names. 

These reportable segments were determined in accordance with how our chief operating decision maker and our executive managers develop and execute our global strategies to drive growth and profitability of our worldwide personal care, consumer tissue, KCP and health care operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and development programs, cost reductions including supply chain management and capacity and capital investments for each of these businesses. 

  1KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

Products for household use are sold directly to supermarkets, mass merchandisers, drugstores, warehouse clubs, variety and department stores and other retail outlets, as well as through other distributors and e-commerce. Products for away-from-home use are sold through distributors and directly to manufacturing, lodging, office building, food service, health care establishments and high volume public facilities.

Net sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. were approximately 12 percent in 2013, 2012 and 2011.

Patents and Trademarks

We own various patents and trademarks registered domestically and in many foreign countries. We consider the patents and trademarks that we own and the trademarks under which we sell certain of our products to be material to our business. Consequently, we seek patent and trademark protection by all available means, including registration.

Raw Materials

Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or fiber recycled from recovered waste paper, is the primary raw material for our tissue products and is a component of disposable diapers, training and youth pants, feminine pads and incontinence care products.

Polypropylene and other synthetics and chemicals are the primary raw materials for manufacturing nonwoven fabrics, which are used in disposable diapers, training and youth pants, wet wipes, feminine pads, incontinence and health care products, and away-from-home wipers. Superabsorbent materials are important components of disposable diapers, training and youth pants and incontinence care products. 

Most raw materials are purchased from third parties, and we consider the supply to be adequate to meet the needs of our businesses. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors."

Competition

We have several major competitors in most of our markets, some of which are larger and more diversified than us. The principal methods and elements of competition include brand recognition and loyalty, product innovation, quality and performance, price, and marketing and distribution capabilities. For additional discussion of the competitive environment in which we conduct our business, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors."

Research and Development

Research and development expenditures are directed toward new or improved personal care, tissue, wiping, safety and health care products and nonwoven materials. Consolidated research and development expense was $360 in 2013, $356 in 2012 and $316 in 2011.

Foreign Market Risks

We operate and market our products globally, and our business strategy includes targeted growth in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with a particular emphasis in China, Russia and Latin America. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for a discussion of foreign market risks that may affect our financial results.

Environmental Matters

Total worldwide capital expenditures for voluntary environmental controls or controls necessary to comply with legal requirements relating to the protection of the environment at our facilities, including our health care facilities, are expected to be as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  2KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

Total worldwide operating expenses for environmental compliance, including pollution control equipment operation and maintenance costs, governmental payments, and research and engineering costs, including for our health care facilities, are expected to be as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. Current environmental spending estimates could be modified as a result of changes in our plans, changes in legal requirements, including any requirements related to global climate change, or other factors.

Employees

In our worldwide consolidated operations, we had approximately 57,000 employees as of December 31, 2013, including approximately 16,000 health care employees.

Available Information

We make financial information, news releases and other information available on our corporate website at www.kimberly-clark.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on this website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the SEC. Stockholders may also contact Stockholder Services, P.O. Box 612606, Dallas, Texas 75261-2606 or call 972-281-1522 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS