ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Introduction

This MD&A is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our recent performance, financial condition and prospects. The following will be discussed and analyzed:

•Overview of Business

•Overview of 2013 Results

•Results of Operations and Related Information

•Unaudited Quarterly Data

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

•Legal Matters

•Business Outlook

•Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted. 

Overview of Business

We are a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life, with manufacturing facilities in 35 countries and products sold in more than 175 countries. Our products are sold under well-known brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend. We have four reportable global business segments: Personal Care, Consumer Tissue, K-C Professional ("KCP") and Health Care. These global business segments are described in greater detail in Item 8, Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In operating our global business, we seek to:

•manage our portfolio to balance growth, margin and cash flow, 

•invest in our brands, innovation and growth initiatives, 

•deliver sustainable cost reductions, and 

•provide disciplined capital management to improve return on invested capital and return cash to shareholders. 

Key strategies for our segments include: 

•We plan to grow our strong positions in personal care by leveraging our brands and providing innovations. 

•For consumer tissue, we seek to bring differentiated, value-added innovations to grow and strengthen our brands while focusing on net realized revenue, improving mix and reducing costs. 

•We plan to continue to shift our mix to faster-growing, higher-margin wiping and safety segments within KCP. 

We plan to drive growth throughout K-C International ("KCI"), which includes our businesses in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa, with a particular emphasis in China, Russia and Latin America. Our goals for KCI include seeking targeted expansion and growth, taking advantage of attractive market opportunities and deploying our strong brands and innovation capabilities.

In November 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized management to pursue a potential tax-free spin-off of our health care business. A spin-off would create a stand-alone, publicly traded health care company with approximately $1.6 billion in annual net sales, focused on the sale of surgical and infection prevention products for the operating room and other medical supplies, and medical devices focused on pain management, respiratory and digestive health. We expect that the spin-off would be in the form of a tax-free distribution of 100 percent of the new company’s common stock to Kimberly-Clark shareholders.

  14KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

Although our current target is to complete the spin-off by the end of the third quarter of 2014, there are no assurances as to when the proposed spin-off will be completed, if at all, or if the spin-off will be completed based on the expected plans.

Highlights for 2013 include the following:

•We executed our growth strategies in KCI with a focus on markets in China, Russia and Latin America. Net sales in KCI grew mid-single digits in 2013, including a 9 percent increase before taking into account the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. KCI accounted for 39 percent of company net sales in 2013, up from 37 percent in the previous year.

•In North America, we launched a number of new or improved products that helped drive volume growth on our Depend, Poise, U By Kotex and Cottonelle brands. In KCI, we launched innovations across our line-up, including a number of new Huggies diapers and diaper-pants, premium feminine care products and adult care offerings. These innovations were important contributors to KCI’s volume growth. 

•To help fund our investments in innovations and growth initiatives and to improve our profit margins, we are generating cost savings through several initiatives, including leveraging our global procurement organization and deploying lean principles. Full-year cost savings from our ongoing program in 2013 were $310.

•In 2013, we continued our strategic changes related to our Western and Central European consumer and professional businesses to focus our resources and investments on stronger market positions and growth opportunities. We have exited the diaper category in that region, with the exception of the Italian market, and divested or exited some lower-margin businesses, mostly in consumer tissue, in certain markets. Restructuring actions related to the strategic changes involve the sale or closure of five of our European manufacturing facilities and a streamlining of our administrative organization. The restructuring actions commenced in the fourth quarter of 2012 and are expected to be completed by December 31, 2014.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We are subject to risks and uncertainties, which can affect our business operations and financial results. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K for additional information.

Overview of 2013 Results

•Net sales were essentially even with the prior year as increases in sales volumes and net selling prices were mostly offset by unfavorable currency effects and lost sales from European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Diluted earnings per share increased 25 percent, from $4.42 in 2012 to $5.53 in 2013. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Results of Operations and Related Information

This section presents a discussion and analysis of net sales, operating profit and other information relevant to an understanding of 2013 results of operations. This discussion and analysis compares 2013 results to 2012, and 2012 results to 2011.

  15KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

Results By Business Segment

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Results By Geography

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Other (income) and expense, net for 2013 includes a balance sheet remeasurement charge of $36 due to the February 2013 devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar, partially offset by gains on the sales of certain non-core assets. The results for 2012 include currency transaction gains of $14 and the impact of the favorable resolution of a legal matter, partially offset by $19 in asset impairment charges. The results for 2011 include gains from the divestiture of a small non-core business in Latin America and the sale of a venture investment in a health care start-up company, as well as currency transaction gains of $27.

  16KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

Percentage Change

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Lost sales related to the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions.

(b)Mix/Other includes rounding.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes inflation/deflation in raw materials, energy and distribution costs.

(b)Other includes the impact of changes in marketing, research and general expenses and manufacturing costs not separately listed in the table. In addition, consolidated includes the impact of the charges in 2013 and 2012 related to the European strategic changes and in 2013 related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. Consolidated also includes the impact of charges in 2012 and 2011 related to the pulp and tissue restructuring actions and in 2011 a non-deductible business tax charge due to a law change in Colombia. 

Commentary - 2013 Compared to 2012

Consolidated

Net sales of $21.2 billion in 2013 were essentially even with the prior year with increased organic sales volumes of 3 percent and higher net selling prices of 1 percent. Changes in foreign currency rates, and lost sales in conjunction with European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions, each reduced net sales by 2 percent.  

Operating profit of $3,208 in 2013 increased 19 percent from $2,686 in 2012. The increase in operating profit included benefits from organic volume growth and higher net selling prices, as well as FORCE (Focused On Reducing Costs Everywhere) cost 

  17KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

savings of $310. Comparisons were positively impacted by lower restructuring costs, as 2012 included $299 and $135 of charges for the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions, respectively, and 2013 included $81 of charges for the European strategic changes. Operating profit in 2013 was negatively impacted by inflation in input costs of $205 versus 2012 and unfavorable foreign currency translation effects of $70 as a result of the weakening of several currencies, including the Australian dollar and Brazilian real, relative to the U.S. dollar. Currency transaction effects also negatively impacted the operating profit comparison. 

The effective tax rate was 31.5 percent in 2013 compared to 31.7 percent in 2012. 

Kimberly-Clark's share of net income of equity companies was $205 in 2013 and $176 in 2012. At Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. ("KCM"), results benefited from net sales growth, increased operating profit margin and a stronger Mexican peso versus the U.S. dollar.

Diluted earnings per share were $5.53 in 2013 and $4.42 in 2012. The increase was primarily due to higher operating profit, along with increased equity income and a lower share count. 

Personal Care Segment

Net sales of $9.5 billion were essentially even with the prior year with increased organic sales volumes of 4 percent and improved product mix of 1 percent. Lost sales in conjunction with European strategic changes reduced net sales by 3 percent and currency rates were unfavorable by 2 percent.  Operating profit of $1,698 increased 2 percent due to cost savings and organic sales volume increases, partially offset by inflation in input costs, manufacturing cost increases, higher marketing, research and general expenses and unfavorable currency effects.

Net sales in North America decreased 1 percent due to lower net selling prices and the impact of unfavorable product mix, which reduced net sales by a combined 1 percent. Sales volumes increased 1 percent and were partially offset by unfavorable currency effects. Adult care volumes increased mid-single digits, including benefits from product innovation on the Depend and Poise brands. Huggies diaper and baby wipe volumes each increased low-single digits. Child care volumes decreased low-single digits and were impacted by category softness, competitive activity and lower shipments for Huggies Little Swimmers swim pants. Feminine care volumes were also down low-single digits.

In KCI, net sales increased 4 percent with sales volumes up 7 percent and higher net selling prices and improved product mix of 1 percent each. Currency rates were unfavorable by more than 4 percent. Volumes increased significantly in China, Russia, Vietnam and throughout most of Latin America, including Brazil, but declined in South Korea and Venezuela. For diapers, the total increase in sales volumes, net selling prices and product mix was more than 35 percent in China and approximately 20 percent in Russia and Brazil.

Net sales in Europe decreased 31 percent, including a 40 percent negative impact from lost sales in conjunction with European strategic changes. Organic sales volumes rose 8 percent, including growth in Huggies baby wipes and child care products, and currency rates were favorable by 1 percent. 

Consumer Tissue Segment

Net sales of $6.6 billion increased 2 percent, as higher organic sales volumes and net selling prices each increased 2 percent. These increases were partially offset by the impact of lost sales in conjunction with the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, which each decreased net sales by 1 percent. Operating profit of $988 increased 11 percent due to higher net sales, cost savings, the positive impact from higher production volumes, and lower marketing, research and general expenses, partially offset by input cost inflation, other manufacturing cost increases and unfavorable currency effects. 

Net sales in North America increased 3 percent compared to 2012, including a 2 percent increase in net selling prices and a 1 percent improvement in product mix. The increase in net selling prices was driven by sheet count reductions accompanying product innovation in 2013 on Kleenex facial tissue and Cottonelle and Scott Extra Soft bathroom tissue. Sales volumes were up slightly compared to 2012, as gains in bath tissue and paper towels were mostly offset by lower volumes in facial tissue. 

Net sales increased 5 percent in KCI, with higher sales volumes of 5 percent and increased net selling prices of 4 percent. Unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates decreased net sales by 4 percent. The growth in volume and price was driven by increases in Latin America. 

In Europe, net sales decreased 5 percent, including the impact from lost sales in conjunction with the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions of 7 percent and decreased net selling prices of 1 percent. These decrease were partially offset by increased organic sales volumes of 2 percent and favorable currency effects of 1 percent. 

  18KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

KCP Segment

Net sales of $3.3 billion increased 1 percent compared to 2012 with organic sales volumes, net selling prices and improved product mix each increasing net sales by 1 percent. These increases were partially offset by total lost sales in conjunction with the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions of 1 percent and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates of 1 percent. Operating profit of $608 increased 12 percent due to sales growth and cost savings, partially offset by input cost inflation, increased marketing, research and general expenses and unfavorable currency effects.

Net sales in North America were up slightly compared to 2012. Higher volumes in washroom and wiper products were mostly offset by the impact from the exit of certain lower-margin safety product offerings.

Net sales increased 4 percent in KCI, despite a 5 percent decrease from unfavorable changes in currency rates. Sales volumes increased 4 percent, driven by growth in Latin America, and net selling prices also rose 4 percent. Improved product mix increased net sales by 1 percent.

In Europe, net sales decreased 1 percent. Lost sales in conjunction with the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced sales volumes by 2 percent and organic sales volumes decreased 1 percent. These decreases were partially offset by the impact of favorable currency rates and improved product mix of 1 percent each. 

Health Care Segment

Net sales of $1.6 billion were even with the prior year, as increased sales volumes of 1 percent were offset by unfavorable currency effects of 1 percent. Medical device volumes increased 5 percent, partially offset by lower surgical and infection prevention volumes. Operating profit was $230 in 2013 and $229 in 2012. Benefits from higher sales volumes and deflation in input costs were mostly offset by higher manufacturing costs, increased marketing, research and general expenses and unfavorable currency rates.

Commentary - 2012 Compared to 2011

Consolidated

Net sales of $21.1 billion in 2012 increased 1 percent compared to 2011 due to higher organic sales volumes and net selling prices of 2 percent each and improved product mix of 1 percent. Foreign currency exchange rates were unfavorable by 3 percent and lost sales in conjunction with pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced net sales by 1 percent. Operating profit increased $244 compared to 2011. Operating profit benefited from increases in net sales, cost savings of $295 and deflation in input costs of $90. These benefits were partially offset by increased marketing, research and general expenses, including $115 in higher strategic marketing spending. Administrative and research spending also increased, in part to build further capabilities and support future growth. Foreign currency translation effects reduced operating profit by $55 as a result of the weakening of several currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Comparisons were also impacted by the 2012 charges related to the European strategic changes, and 2012 and 2011 charges for the pulp and tissue restructuring actions. In addition, 2011 included a charge for a non-deductible business tax in Colombia.

The effective income tax rate in 2012 was 31.7 percent compared to 30.2 percent in 2011. The increase was primarily due to the tax impact related to the charges for the European strategic changes, partially offset by favorable audit resolutions.

Kimberly-Clark's share of net income of equity companies increased by $15 primarily due to higher earnings at KCM. KCM's net sales grew 3 percent due to increased sales volumes of 6 percent, higher net selling prices of 3 percent and a slight improvement in product mix, partially offset by unfavorable currency effects of 7 percent. Results were also impacted by higher marketing, research and general expenses, cost savings and deflation in input costs. 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $15 primarily due to the redemption in 2011 of certain redeemable preferred securities. See Item 8, Note 8 for information on these securities and their redemption.

Personal Care Segment

Net sales of $9.6 billion increased 5 percent due to increased organic sales volumes of 5 percent and an increase in net selling prices of 3 percent. Foreign currency exchange rates were unfavorable by 3 percent. Operating profit of $1.7 billion increased 9 percent due to higher net sales and cost savings, partially offset by inflation in input costs, increases in marketing, research and general expenses and manufacturing costs and unfavorable currency effects.

Net sales in North America increased 2 percent. Net selling prices rose 3 percent, driven by improved revenue realization for Huggies diapers and baby wipes. Overall volumes were down 1 percent as infant care volumes decreased mid-single digits, primarily reflecting category declines. This decrease was mostly offset by volume improvements in adult care of mid-single digits and feminine care of low-single digits, primarily due to innovations in Depend and U by Kotex brands.

  19KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

In KCI, net sales increased 8 percent despite a 5 percent decrease from unfavorable changes in currency rates. Sales volumes were up 9 percent, with high single-digit to low double-digit growth in each major region. Volume performance increased in a number of markets, including Brazil, China, Russia, South Africa, South Korea, Vietnam and Venezuela. Overall net selling prices improved 3 percent compared to the year-ago period, driven by increases in Latin America. 

In Europe, net sales increased 2 percent, despite an unfavorable currency impact of 6 percent. Sales volumes rose 10 percent, mostly due to growth in non-branded offerings, Huggies baby wipes and child care offerings. 

Consumer Tissue Segment

Net sales of $6.5 billion decreased 4 percent due to a 3 percent negative impact of lost sales in conjunction with pulp and tissue restructuring actions, unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates of 2 percent and unfavorable sales mix of 1 percent. Net selling prices increased 2 percent. Operating profit of $887 increased 14 percent due to higher net selling prices, cost savings and deflation in input costs, partially offset by increased marketing, research and general expenses and lower sales volumes.

Net sales in North America were down 3 percent compared to 2011, including a 5 percent decrease from lost sales in conjunction with pulp and tissue restructuring actions. Organic sales volumes were essentially flat with 2011, as gains in paper towels were offset by lower volumes in facial tissue. Overall net selling prices increased 3 percent and changes in product mix reduced net sales 1 percent. 

Net sales decreased 1 percent in KCI. Currency rates were unfavorable by 4 percent and lost sales in conjunction with pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced sales by 1 percent. Net selling prices increased 3 percent and changes in product mix increased net sales by 1 percent. These benefits were partially offset by decreases in organic sales volumes of 1 percent.

In Europe, net sales decreased 8 percent, including an unfavorable currency impact of 5 percent. Changes in product mix, net selling prices and organic sales volumes each decreased net sales by 1 percent. 

KCP Segment

Net sales of $3.3 billion were essentially even with 2011 as increased organic sales volumes of 2 percent and higher net selling prices of 1 percent, were mostly offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates of 2 percent. Lost sales in conjunction with pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced sales by 1 percent. Operating profit of $545 increased 12 percent due to higher sales volumes and net selling prices, cost savings and deflation in input costs, partially offset by increased marketing, research and general expenses, unfavorable currency effects and increased manufacturing costs.

Net sales in North America were essentially even with 2011. Although washroom product volumes increased, these gains were offset by lower volumes in other areas, including safety products and wipers. 

Net sales increased 5 percent in KCI, despite a 4 percent decrease from unfavorable changes in currency rates. Sales volumes increased 6 percent, driven by double-digit growth in Latin America, and net selling prices rose 3 percent. 

In Europe, net sales decreased 9 percent. Currency rates were unfavorable by 6 percent and lost sales in conjunction with pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced sales by 4 percent. Organic sales volumes were essentially flat with 2011, and net selling prices increased 1 percent. 

Health Care Segment

Net sales of $1.6 billion increased 1 percent as sales volumes increased 2 percent, partially offset by the impact of unfavorable currency effects of 1 percent. Medical device volumes increased 3 percent and surgical and infection prevention volumes increased 2 percent. Operating profit of $229 increased 5 percent as higher net sales, deflation in input costs and lower marketing, research and general expenses were partially offset by increased manufacturing costs. 

European Strategic Changes

In 2012, we approved strategic changes related to our Western and Central European consumer and professional businesses to focus our resources and investments on stronger market positions and growth opportunities. We have exited the diaper category in that region, with the exception of the Italian market, and divested or exited some lower-margin businesses, mostly in consumer tissue, in certain markets. The changes primarily affect our consumer businesses, with a modest impact on KCP. The impacted businesses generated annual net sales of approximately $0.5 billion and negligible operating profit. As a result of the restructuring activities, annual net sales in 2013 were decreased by $350.

Restructuring actions related to the strategic changes involve the sale or closure of five of our European manufacturing facilities and streamlining our administrative organization.

  20KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

The restructuring actions commenced in 2012 and are expected to be completed by December 31, 2014. The restructuring is expected to result in cumulative charges toward the high end of the range of $350 to $400 pre-tax ($300 to $350 after-tax) over that period. Cash costs related to severance and other expenses are expected to be toward the low end of the range of 50 to 60 percent of the charges. Noncash charges consist primarily of asset impairment charges and incremental depreciation.

During 2013, $81 of pre-tax charges were recognized for the strategic changes, including $54 recorded in cost of products sold, $22 recorded in marketing, research and general expenses and $5 recorded in other (income) and expense, net. A related benefit of $15 was recorded in provision for income taxes. On a segment basis, $36, $27 and $13 of the charges were related to personal care, consumer tissue, and KCP, respectively. Cash payments of $156 related to the restructuring were made during 2013.

During 2012, $299 of pre-tax charges were recognized for the strategic changes, including $250 recorded in cost of products sold and $49 recorded in marketing, research and general expenses. A related benefit of $57 was recorded in provision for income taxes. On a segment basis, $213, $66 and $20 of the charges were related to personal care, consumer tissue and KCP, respectively. Non-cash charges totaled $165 in 2012.

For additional information on the European strategic changes, see Item 8, Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Pulp and Tissue Restructuring Actions

In 2011 and 2012, we executed pulp and tissue restructuring actions in order to exit our remaining integrated pulp manufacturing operations and improve the underlying profitability and return on invested capital of our consumer tissue and KCP businesses. These actions involved the streamlining, sale or closure of seven of our manufacturing facilities around the world. In conjunction with these actions, we exited certain non-strategic products, primarily non-branded offerings, and transferred some production to lower-cost facilities in order to improve overall profitability and returns. The actions were substantially complete at December 31, 2012.

As a result of the restructuring activities, versus the 2010 baseline, annual net sales in 2013 were decreased by $280 and operating profit was increased by $70. The annual improvement in operating profit, versus the 2010 baseline, is expected to increase to at least $100 in 2014.

During 2012, charges of $128, $6 and $1 were recorded in cost of products sold, marketing, research and general expenses and other (income) and expense, net, respectively, for the restructuring actions. A related benefit of $49 was recorded in provision for income taxes. On a segment basis, $125 and $9 of the charges were related to consumer tissue and KCP, respectively. On a geographic basis, $97, $35 and $3 of the charges were recorded in the United States, Australia and elsewhere, respectively.

During 2011, charges of $407, $6 and $2 were recorded in cost of products sold, marketing, research and general expenses and other (income) and expense, net, respectively, for the restructuring actions. A related benefit of $126 was recorded in provision for income taxes. On a segment basis, $357 and $56 of the charges were related to consumer tissue and KCP, respectively. On a geographic basis, $204, $133 and $78 of the charges were recorded in the United States, Australia and elsewhere, respectively.

  21KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

Unaudited Quarterly Data

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Results include charges related to the European strategic changes in 2013 and 2012, a charge related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar in 2013 and charges related to the pulp and tissue restructuring actions in 2012. See Item 8, Notes 1, 3 and 4 for more information. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Provided by Operations

Cash provided by operations was $3.0 billion in 2013 compared to $3.3 billion in 2012. Despite higher earnings and improvements in our working capital cash conversion cycle, cash from operations decreased as a result of higher tax payments, pension contributions and cash payments for restructuring actions. 

Obligations

The following table presents our total contractual obligations for which cash flows are fixed or determinable. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Projected interest payments for variable-rate debt were calculated based on the outstanding principal amounts and prevailing market rates as of December 31, 2013.

•Two consolidated financing subsidiaries have issued redeemable preferred securities. In December 2013, the holder of the securities of one of the subsidiaries caused the subsidiary to elect to redeem the $500 face value of the securities in December 2014. As a result, we will repay the $500 face value plus accrued return in 2014. Returns on the redeemable preferred securities reflect required return payments through the December 2014 redemption date for the $500 face 

  22KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

value and through the potential redemption date in 2019 for the $26 face value of securities issued by the other subsidiary. See Item 8, Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the securities.

•The unconditional purchase obligations are for the purchase of raw materials, primarily pulp, and utilities. Although we are primarily liable for payments on the above operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations, based on historic operating performance and forecasted future cash flows, we believe exposure to losses, if any, under these arrangements is not material.

•The open purchase orders displayed in the table represent amounts for goods and services we have negotiated for delivery.

The table does not include amounts where payments are discretionary or the timing is uncertain. The following payments are not included in the table:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Accrued income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, deferred taxes and noncontrolling interests.

Investing

During 2013, our capital spending was $1.0 billion compared to $1.1 billion in the prior year. We expect capital spending to be $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion in 2014. In 2013, proceeds from the disposition of property were $129 primarily due to the sale of certain non-core assets.

Financing

At December 31, 2013 and 2012, total debt and redeemable securities was $6.3 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively. In December 2013, a financial institution assumed our monetization loan of $397 and acquired ownership rights to most of the related note receivable. See Item 8, Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the securities.

We repurchase shares of Kimberly-Clark common stock from time to time pursuant to publicly announced share repurchase programs. During 2013, we repurchased 12.4 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $1.2 billion through a broker in the open market. In 2014, we plan to repurchase $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion of shares through open market purchases, subject to market conditions.

On May 23, 2013, we issued $250 aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due May 15, 2016, $350 aggregate principal amount of 2.4% notes due June 1, 2023, and $250 aggregate principal amount of 3.7% notes due June 1, 2043. Proceeds from the offering were used to repay our $500 aggregate principal amount of 5.0% notes due August 15, 2013, to fund investment in our business and for general corporate purposes.

We maintain a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, scheduled to expire in October 2016, as well as the option to increase this facility by an additional $500. This facility, currently unused, supports our commercial paper program and would provide liquidity in the event our access to the commercial paper markets is unavailable for any reason.

Our short-term debt, which consists of U.S. commercial paper with original maturities up to 90 days and/or other similar short-term debt issued by non-U.S. subsidiaries, was $63 as of December 31, 2013 (included in debt payable within one year on the Consolidated Balance Sheet). The average month-end balance of short-term debt for the fourth quarter of 2013 was $302, and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2013 was $472. These short-term borrowings provide supplemental funding for supporting our operations. The level of short-term debt generally fluctuates depending upon the amount of operating cash flows and the timing of customer receipts and payments for items such as dividends and income taxes.

We account for our operations in Venezuela using highly inflationary accounting. On February 13, 2013, the Venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the Central Bank of Venezuela ("Central Bank") regulated currency exchange system rate to 6.3 bolivars per U.S. dollar and the elimination of the SITME rate. As a result of the devaluation, we recorded a $26 after-tax charge ($36 pre-tax) related to the remeasurement of the local currency-denominated balance sheet to the new exchange rate in 2013. Prior to this 

  23KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

devaluation, we used the Central Bank SITME rate of 5.4 bolivars per U.S. dollar to measure K-C Venezuela's bolivar-denominated transactions into U.S. dollars. The $36 pre-tax charge is reflected in the Consolidated Income Statement in other (income) and expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2013. In the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, this non-cash charge is included in other in cash provided by operations.

At December 31, 2013, K-C Venezuela had a bolivar-denominated net monetary asset position of $309 and our net investment in K-C Venezuela was $445, both valued at 6.3 bolivars per U.S. dollar. Net sales of K-C Venezuela represented approximately 2 percent of consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 and approximately 1 percent of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. 

Management believes that our ability to generate cash from operations and our capacity to issue short-term and long-term debt are adequate to fund working capital, capital spending, payment of dividends, pension plan contributions and other needs for the foreseeable future. Further, we do not expect restrictions or taxes on repatriation of cash held outside of the United States to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations for the foreseeable future.

Variable Interest Entities

We have interests in the financing entities discussed in Item 8, Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. The critical accounting policies we used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. The critical judgments by management relate to accruals for sales incentives and trade promotion allowances, pension and other postretirement benefits, future cash flows associated with impairment testing for goodwill and long-lived assets and deferred income taxes and potential income tax assessments. These critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Sales Incentives and Trade Promotion Allowances

Among those factors affecting the accruals for promotions are estimates of the number of consumer coupons that will be redeemed and the type and number of activities within promotional programs between us and our trade customers. Generally, the estimates for consumer coupon costs are based on historical patterns of coupon redemption, influenced by judgments about current market conditions such as competitive activity in specific product categories. Estimates of trade promotion liabilities for promotional program costs incurred, but unpaid, are generally based on estimates of the quantity of customer sales, timing of promotional activities and forecasted costs for activities within the promotional programs. Trade promotion programs include introductory marketing funds such as slotting fees, cooperative marketing programs, temporary price reductions, favorable end-of-aisle or in-store product displays and other activities conducted by our customers to promote our products. Promotion accruals as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $311 and $319, respectively. Rebate accruals are based on estimates of the quantity of products expected to be sold to specific customers, and were $358 and $340 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Employee Postretirement Benefits

Pension Plans

We have defined benefit pension plans in North America and the United Kingdom (the "Principal Plans") and/or defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all regular employees. Certain other subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans or, in certain countries, termination pay plans covering substantially all regular employees. The funding policy for our qualified defined benefit plans is to contribute assets at least equal to regulatory minimum requirements. Nonqualified U.S. plans providing pension benefits in excess of limitations imposed by the U.S. income tax code are not funded.

Consolidated pension expense for defined benefit pension plans was $69 in 2013 compared with $122 in 2012. Expense in 2013 included a benefit of $31 from a plan curtailment related to restructuring associated with the European strategic changes. Pension expense is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions applied to each of the defined benefit plans. The weighted-average expected long-term rate of return on pension fund assets used to calculate pension expense was 6.26 percent in 2013 compared with 6.49 percent in 2012 and will be 5.98 percent in 2014. The weighted-average expected long-term rate of return 

  24KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

on pension fund assets used to calculate pension expense for the Principal Plans was 6.43 percent in 2013 compared with 6.68 percent in 2012 and will be 6.16 percent in 2014. The expected long-term rates of return are evaluated on an annual basis. In setting these assumptions, we consider a number of factors including projected future returns by asset class relative to the target asset allocation. Actual asset allocations are regularly reviewed and they are periodically rebalanced to the targeted allocations when considered appropriate. 

Pension expense is determined using the fair value of assets rather than a calculated value that averages gains and losses ("Calculated Value") over a period of years. Investment gains or losses represent the difference between the expected return calculated using the fair value of assets and the actual return based on the fair value of assets. The variance between actual and expected gains and losses on pension assets is recognized in pension expense more rapidly than it would be if a Calculated Value was used for plan assets. As of December 31, 2013, the Principal Plans had cumulative unrecognized investment and actuarial losses of approximately $2.5 billion. These unrecognized net losses may increase future pension expense if not offset by (i) actual investment returns that exceed the assumed investment returns, (ii) other factors, including reduced pension liabilities arising from higher discount rates used to calculate pension obligations, or (iii) other actuarial gains, including whether such accumulated actuarial losses at each measurement date exceed the "corridor" as required.

The discount (or settlement) rate used to determine the present value of our future U.S. pension obligation at December 31, 2013 was based on a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities with cash flows that largely match the expected benefit payments of the plan. For the U.K. and Canadian plans, the discount rate was determined based on yield curves constructed from a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities. Each year's expected future benefit payments were discounted to their present value at the appropriate yield curve rate to determine the pension obligations. The weighted-average discount rate for the Principal Plans increased to 4.76 percent at December 31, 2013 from 4.12 percent at December 31, 2012. These rates are used as an input in calculating pension expense for 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Consolidated pension expense for defined benefit pension plans is estimated to approximate $110 in 2014. This estimate includes a charge of approximately $15 from an expected plan settlement related to the European strategic changes. Pension expense beyond 2014 will depend on future investment performance, our contributions to the pension trusts, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the covered employees in the plans.

If the expected long-term rates of return on assets for the Principal Plans were lowered by 0.25 percent, our annual pension expense would increase by approximately $13 in 2014. If the discount rate assumptions for these same plans were reduced by 0.25 percent, annual pension expense would increase by approximately $3 and the December 31, 2013 pension liability would increase by about $177.

The fair value of the assets in our defined benefit plans was $5.6 billion and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. The projected benefit obligations of the defined benefit plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by approximately $0.6 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. On a consolidated basis, we contributed $220 to our pension plans in 2013 compared with $110 in 2012. In addition, we made direct benefit payments of $13 in 2013 and $14 in 2012. We currently anticipate contributing $100 to $200 to our pension plans in 2014.

Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

Substantially all U.S. retirees and employees have access to our unfunded healthcare and life insurance benefit plans. We made benefit payments of $52 in 2013 compared with $55 in 2012. The determination of the discount rates used to calculate the benefit obligations of the plans is discussed in the pension benefit section above. If the discount rate assumptions for these plans were reduced by 0.25 percent, there would be no impact to 2014 other postretirement benefit expense and the December 31, 2013 benefit liability would increase by about $18.

The methodology for determining the discount rate used for each country's other postretirement benefit obligation is the same as the methodology used to determine the discount rate used for that country's pension obligation. The discount rates displayed for the two types of obligations for our consolidated operations may appear different due to the unique benefit payments of the plans. 

The healthcare cost trend rate is based on a combination of inputs including our recent claims history and insights from external advisers regarding recent developments in the healthcare marketplace, as well as projections of future trends in the marketplace. The annual increase in the consolidated weighted-average healthcare cost trend rate is expected to be 6.2 percent in 2014 and to gradually decline to 5.0 percent in 2022 and thereafter. See Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of the effect of a one percentage point change in the healthcare cost trend rate.

  25KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The carrying amount of goodwill is tested annually for impairment and whenever events or circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. During the third quarter of 2013, we changed our annual goodwill impairment testing date from the beginning of the fourth quarter to the beginning of the third quarter, which did not result in the delay, acceleration or avoidance of an impairment charge. We believe this timing is preferable as it better aligns the goodwill impairment test with our strategic business planning process, which is a key component of the goodwill impairment test. The change was applied prospectively, as retrospective application would have been impractical because we are unable to objectively select assumptions that would have been used in previous periods without the benefit of hindsight. 

Impairment testing is conducted at the reporting unit level of our businesses and is based on a discounted cash flow approach to determine the fair value. The determination of fair value requires significant management judgment including estimating future sales volumes, selling prices and costs, changes in working capital, investments in property and equipment and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. Sensitivities of these fair value estimates to changes in assumptions for sales volumes, selling prices and costs are also tested. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit that contains goodwill exceeds fair value, a possible impairment would be indicated.

If a possible impairment is indicated, the implied fair value of goodwill would be estimated by comparing the fair value of the net assets of the unit excluding goodwill to the total fair value of the unit. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment charge would be recorded. Judgment is used in assessing whether goodwill should be tested more frequently for impairment than annually. Factors such as unexpected adverse economic conditions, competition, product changes and other external events may require more frequent assessments. The annual goodwill impairment testing has been completed and, as the fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of the respective reporting unit's carrying value, it has been determined that our $3.2 billion of goodwill is not impaired.

We have no significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. At December 31, 2013, we have intangible assets with finite useful lives with a gross carrying amount of $546 and a net carrying amount of $236. These assets are being amortized over their estimated useful lives and are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset is not recoverable based on estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss would be indicated. The amount of the impairment loss to be recorded would be based on the excess of the carrying amount of the intangible asset over its fair value (based on discounted future cash flows). Judgment is used in assessing whether the carrying amount of intangible assets is not expected to be recoverable over their estimated remaining useful lives. The factors considered are similar to those outlined in the goodwill impairment discussion above.

Deferred Income Taxes and Potential Assessments

As of December 31, 2013, we have recorded deferred tax assets related to income tax loss carryforwards, income tax credit carryforwards and capital loss carryforwards totaling $604 and had established valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets of $173, thereby resulting in a net deferred tax asset of $431. As of December 31, 2012, the net deferred tax asset was $527. These carryforwards are primarily in non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions and in certain states in the U.S. Foreign tax credits earned in the U.S. in current and prior years, which cannot be used currently, also give rise to net deferred tax assets. In determining the valuation allowances to establish against these deferred tax assets, many factors are considered, including the specific taxing jurisdiction, the carryforward period, income tax strategies and forecasted earnings for the entities in each jurisdiction. A valuation allowance is recognized if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.

As of December 31, 2013, U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on approximately $9.8 billion of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. These earnings are considered by management to be invested indefinitely. However, they would be subject to income tax if they were remitted as dividends, were lent to one of our U.S. entities or if we were to sell our stock in the subsidiaries. It is not practicable to determine the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability on these unremitted earnings. We periodically determine whether our non-U.S. subsidiaries will invest their undistributed earnings indefinitely and reassess this determination, as appropriate.

We record our global tax provision based on the respective tax rules and regulations for the jurisdictions in which we operate. Where we believe that a tax position is supportable for income tax purposes, the item is included in our income tax returns. Where treatment of a position is uncertain, a liability is recorded based upon the expected most likely outcome taking into consideration the technical merits of the position based on specific tax regulations and facts of each matter. These liabilities may be affected by 

  26KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

changing interpretations of laws, rulings by tax authorities or the expiration of the statute of limitations. Our U.S. federal income tax returns have been audited through 2009. IRS assessments of additional taxes have been paid through 2003. We have various federal income tax return positions in administrative appeals or litigation for 1999 to 2009. We currently believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Legal Matters

We are subject to various legal proceedings, claims and governmental inquiries, inspections, audits or investigations pertaining to issues such as contract disputes, product liability, tax matters, patents and trademarks, advertising, pricing, business practices, governmental regulations, employment and other matters. Although the results of litigation and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the ultimate disposition of these matters, to the extent not previously provided for, will not have a material adverse effect, individually or in the aggregate, on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations with respect to our business operations and are operating in compliance with, or taking action aimed at ensuring compliance with, these laws and regulations. We have been named a potentially responsible party under the provisions of the U.S. federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or analogous state statutes, at a number of sites where hazardous substances are present. None of our compliance obligations with environmental protection laws and regulations, individually or in the aggregate, is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

New Accounting Standards

See Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of new accounting standards and their anticipated effects on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Business Outlook

2014 Operating Results

We plan to continue to execute our Global Business Plan strategies, which include a focus on targeted growth initiatives, innovation and brand building, cost savings programs and shareholder-friendly capital allocation. In 2014, we expect GAAP earnings per share in a range of $5.95 to $6.17. Growth in organic volume, net selling prices and product mix is expected to be in the combined 3 to 5 percent target range, led by KCI. We expect net sales to be negatively impacted by lost sales from the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions of 1 percent and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates of 2 to 3 percent. We plan to achieve cost savings of at least $300 to help offset anticipated unfavorable foreign currency translation operating profit impacts of 3 to 4 percent and commodity cost inflation of $150 to $250. We anticipate that advertising and research and development spending will increase faster than sales to support targeted growth initiatives and innovation activities. We expect the effective tax rate to be between 31.0 and 32.5 percent. We anticipate capital spending to be in a $1.0 to $1.2 billion range and share repurchases to total $1.3 to $1.5 billion, subject to market conditions. We expect to contribute $100 to $200 to our defined benefit pension plans and to increase our quarterly dividend 2 to 4 percent effective April 2014, subject to approval by the Board of Directors. The 2014 assumptions include a full year of the health care business and do not include spin-off transaction or related costs.

Potential Spin-off of Health Care Business

In November 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized management to pursue a potential tax-free spin-off of our health care business. A spin-off would create a stand-alone, publicly traded health care company with approximately $1.6 billion in annual net sales, focused on the sale of surgical and infection prevention products for the operating room and other medical supplies, and medical devices focused on pain management, respiratory and digestive health. We expect that the spin-off would be in the form of a tax-free distribution of 100 percent of the new company’s common stock to Kimberly-Clark shareholders.

Although our current target is to complete the spin-off by the end of the third quarter of 2014, there are no assurances as to when the proposed spin-off will be completed, if at all, or if the spin-off will be completed based on the expected plans.

  27KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2013 Annual Report

Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Certain matters contained in this report concerning the business outlook, including the anticipated costs, scope, timing and financial and other effects of the European strategic changes and the pulp and tissue restructuring actions, the proposed spin-off of our health care business, cash flow and uses of cash, growth initiatives, innovations, marketing and other spending, cost savings and reductions, net sales, anticipated currency rates and exchange risks, raw material, energy and other input costs, contingencies and anticipated transactions of Kimberly-Clark, including dividends, share repurchases and pension contributions, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based upon management's expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting Kimberly-Clark. There can be no assurance that these future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update them. 

The assumptions used as a basis for the forward-looking statements include many estimates that, among other things, depend on the achievement of future cost savings and projected volume increases. In addition, many factors outside our control, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the prices and availability of our raw materials, potential competitive pressures on selling prices for our products, energy costs and retail trade customer actions, as well as general economic and political conditions globally and in the markets in which we do business, could affect the realization of these estimates.

The factors described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K, or in our other SEC filings, among others, could cause our future results to differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could also affect our business operations and financial results.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK