ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as market conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.  

Deterioration of or instability in the global economy and financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial statements.  

Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S. During 2011, the global economy showed signs of recovering from the widespread recessionary conditions of 2008 and 2009,  

16  

Table of Contents 

 which witnessed record levels of unemployment in some countries and extreme volatility in and tightening of the capital and credit markets. However, uncertainty remains as to the overall rate and sustainability of the recovery, particularly in Europe, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience further recessionary conditions and other adverse effects from broad economic trends, or that any improvements will be broad-based and will benefit the markets we serve. The deterioration or instability of the economies and financial markets in the geographies in which we do business could adversely affect the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, including having the effect of:  

   •    reducing demand for our products and services, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies;  

   •    increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories;  

   •    increasing price competition in our served markets;  

   •    resulting in supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products;  

   •    increasing the risk of impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets; and  

   •    increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us.  

In particular, the European debt crisis and the instability and uncertainty relating to the Euro could constrain government budgets, limit the financing available to our suppliers and customers and adversely affect the economies and capital markets in Europe and other geographies, which could in turn adversely affect demand for our products, the availability of supplies and the value of our Euro-denominated assets and obligations.  

Although we have been able to continue accessing the commercial paper markets through the date of this report, there can be no assurances that the commercial paper markets will remain available to us or that the lenders participating in our revolving credit facilities will be able to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations.  

The restructuring actions that we have taken to reduce costs could have long-term adverse effects on our business.  

In 2008, 2009 and 2011, we implemented significant restructuring activities across our businesses to adjust our cost structure. These restructuring activities and our regular ongoing cost reduction activities (including in connection with the integration of acquired businesses) have the effect of reducing our available talent, assets and other resources and could slow improvements in our products and technologies, adversely affect our ability to respond to customers and limit our ability to increase production quickly as demand for our products increases. These circumstances could adversely impact our financial statements.  

Our growth could suffer if the markets into which we sell our products decline, do not grow as anticipated or experience cyclicality.  

Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve, and visibility into our markets is limited (particularly for markets into which we sell through distribution). Our quarterly sales and profits depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our financial statements. Certain of our businesses operate in industries that may experience periodic, cyclical downturns. In addition, in certain of our businesses product demand depends on customers’ capital spending budgets as well as government funding policies, and matters of public policy as well as product and economic cycles can affect the spending decisions of these entities. Our product demand is also sensitive to changes in customer order patterns, which may be affected by announced price changes, changes in incentive programs, new product introductions and customer inventory levels. Any of these factors could adversely affect our growth and results of operations in any given period.  

We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience decreased demand, decreased market share and price reductions for our products.  

Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation. Because of the diversity of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors; please see “Item 1. Business – Competition” for additional details. In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers and continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually developing new products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and leadership position in various product and service categories and penetrate new markets, including in developing countries. Our failure to compete effectively and/or pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our financial statements.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation.  

We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards. If we do not develop innovative new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, our products will become obsolete over time and our competitive position and financial statements will suffer. Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to:  

   •    correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences;  

   •    allocate our research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects;  

   •    anticipate and respond to our competitors’ development of new products and technological innovations;  

   •    differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings and avoid product commoditization;  

   •    innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in our served markets;  

   •    obtain adequate intellectual property rights;  

   •    successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time; and  

   •    encourage customers to adopt new technologies.  

In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue, which would adversely affect our profitability. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new products and product enhancements, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer.  

Our reputation, ability to do business and financial statements may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners.  

We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, could cause us to incur significant legal fees and could damage our reputation.  

Any inability to consummate acquisitions at our historical rate and at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price.  

We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price. Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers, the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and antitrust and other regulatory approvals and the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets. In addition, competition for acquisitions in our current and anticipated business areas is significant and may result in higher purchase prices. Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. Our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies.  

Our acquisition of businesses, including our acquisition of Beckman Coulter, could negatively impact our financial statements.  

As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses in the ordinary course, some of which may be material; please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) for additional details. In particular, as of the date of this report the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, Inc. in June 2011  

18  

Table of Contents 

 was Danaher’s largest acquisition and has expanded Danaher’s business into new markets. Our acquisitions involve a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational, legal and other risks and challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our financial statements:  

   •    Any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it, or not perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable.  

   •    Acquisitions could cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community’s expectations in any given period, or over the long-term.  

   •    Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period.  

   •    Acquisitions could create demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems that we are unable to effectively address.  

   •    We could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other systems and retaining key employees and customers.  

   •    We may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition.  

   •    We may assume by acquisition unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquired company’s activities. The realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations.  

   •    In connection with acquisitions, we often enter into post-closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn-out obligations and indemnification obligations, which may have unpredictable financial results.  

   •    As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets on our balance sheet. If we are not able to realize the value of these assets, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets.  

The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities.  

Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will protect us fully or at all, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our financial statements.  

Divestitures could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our financial statements.  

We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business. For example, when we decide to sell a business or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms and within our anticipated timeframe, and even after reaching a definitive agreement to sell a business the sale is typically subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions which may not become satisfied. In addition, divestitures may dilute the Company’s earnings per share, have other adverse accounting impacts and distract management, and disputes may arise with buyers. In addition, we have retained responsibility for and/or have agreed to indemnify buyers against some known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, product liability claims and environmental matters. The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material effect on our financial statements but we cannot be certain that this favorable pattern will continue.  

Certain of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by comparable agencies of other countries, as well as laws regulating fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and the privacy and security of health information. Failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our reputation and financial statements.  

Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the FDA, by comparable agencies of other countries and by regulations governing radioactive or other hazardous materials (or the manufacture and sale of products containing such materials). For more information regarding these regulations please see “Item 1 – Business – Regulatory Matters.” We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain regulatory  

19  

Table of Contents 

 clearance (such as 510(k) clearance) for our new products or modifications to existing products within the anticipated timeframe or at all, and if we do obtain such clearance it may be time-consuming, costly and restrictive. Our ability to obtain such regulatory clearances will depend on many factors, including our ability to obtain the necessary clinical trial results, and the process for obtaining such clearances could change over time and may require the withdrawal of products from the market until such clearances are obtained. Failure to obtain such regulatory clearances before marketing our products, other violations of these regulations, efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products (even after obtaining clearance for distribution) and unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials can lead to FDA Form 483 Inspectional Observations, warning letters, notices to customers, declining sales, loss of customers, loss of market share, recalls, seizures of adulterated or misbranded products, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, partial or total shutdown of production facilities or the implementation of operating restrictions, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and pre-market notification rescissions.  

As Beckman Coulter previously reported in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a stand-alone company, the business is addressing issues raised by the FDA relating to its compliance and quality systems and product clearances for certain of its assays. These matters have been the subject of Form 483 Inspectional Observations and warning letters issued by the FDA to certain of the business’ facilities. Although the obtaining of regulatory clearances and other resolutions with respect to these matters depends upon many factors and the timing thereof cannot be predicted with certainty, the business is working diligently to address these issues. We are also subject to various laws regulating (1) fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, and (2) the privacy and security of health information, including the federal regulations described in “Item 1 – Business – Regulatory Matters.” Many states and foreign countries have also adopted laws and regulations similar to, and in some cases more stringent than, such federal regulations. For more information regarding these regulations please see “Item 1 – Business – Regulatory Matters.”  

Failure to comply with the regulations described above could result in the adverse effects referenced below under “Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial statements and reputation.” Compliance with these and other regulations may also require us to incur significant expenses.  

The healthcare industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce costs, which could adversely affect our financial statements.  

The healthcare industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce costs, including the following:  

   •    Many of our customers, and the end-users to whom our customers supply products, rely on government funding of and reimbursement for healthcare products and services and research activities. The recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), healthcare austerity measures in Europe and other potential healthcare reform changes and government austerity measures may reduce the amount of government funding or reimbursement available to customers or end-users of our products and services. Global economic uncertainty or deterioration can also adversely impact government funding and reimbursement.  

   •    Beginning in 2013, the PPACA will also impose a 2.3% excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States as well as new reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device manufacturers.  

   •    Governmental and private healthcare providers and payors around the world are increasingly utilizing managed care for the delivery of healthcare services, forming group purchasing organizations to improve their purchasing leverage and using competitive bid processes to procure healthcare products and services.  

These changes may cause participants in the healthcare industry and related industries that we serve to purchase fewer of our products and services, reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services, reduce the amounts of reimbursement and funding available for our products services from governmental agencies or third-party payors, reduce the volume of medical procedures that use our products and services, increase our tax liabilities and increase our compliance and other costs. In addition, we may be unable to enter into contracts with group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on terms acceptable to us, and even if we do enter into such contracts they may be on terms that negatively affect our current or future profitability. All of the factors described above could adversely affect our financial statements.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Our operations, products and services expose us to the risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities, costs and violations that could adversely affect our financial statements and reputation.  

Our operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. We cannot assure you that our environmental, health and safety compliance program has been or will at all times be effective. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements.  

In addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances. We may also become subject to additional remedial, compliance or personal injury costs due to future events such as changes in existing laws or regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations and changes in accounting rules. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to “Item 1. Business – Regulatory Matters.” We cannot assure you that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements and reputation or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. However, based on the information we currently have we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of our reserves as of December 31, 2011 will have a material effect on our financial statements.  

Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial statements and reputation.  

In addition to the anticorruption, environmental, health, safety and FDA-related regulations noted above, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following:  

   •    We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons and dealings between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies. In other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory.  

   •    We also have agreements to sell products and services to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing and other terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. Our agreements with government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification at the convenience of the government or in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors, and we may underestimate our costs of performing under the contract. Government contracts that have been awarded to us following a bid process could become the subject of a bid protest by a losing bidder, which could result in loss of the contract. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts.  

These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with. Failure to comply with these or any other regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to manufacture, import, export and sell products and services, disbarment from selling to certain federal agencies, damage to our reputation and loss of customers and could cause us to incur significant legal fees. Compliance with these and other regulations may also require us to incur significant expenses. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the ISO, and failure to comply with these rules could result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services and otherwise adversely impact our financial statements. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to “Item 1. Business – Regulatory Matters.”  

21  

Table of Contents 

We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets.  

At December 31, 2011, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets totaled approximately $17.1 billion. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments would adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized.  

Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial statements.  

Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our financial statements. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which may require us to lower our prices or adversely affect sales to the extent we do not increase local currency prices. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products and services purchased overseas. Our sales and expenses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects. In addition, certain of our businesses may invoice customers in a currency other than the business’ functional currency, and movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could also result in unfavorable translation effects.  

Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.  

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. Please see the MD&A for a discussion of the factors that may adversely affect our effective tax rate and decrease our profitability in any period. The impact of these factors may be substantially different from period to period. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. Due to the potential for changes to tax law and the ambiguity of tax laws, the subjectivity of factual interpretations and other factors, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. Intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services and intellectual property are complex and can also affect our tax liabilities.  

We are subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings in the course of our business that could adversely affect our financial statements.  

We are subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings incidental to our business (or the business operations of previously owned entities), including claims for damages arising out of the use of products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition or divestiture-related matters. These lawsuits may include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages and/or injunctive relief. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial statements. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against such losses. In addition, developments in legal proceedings in any given period may require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our financial statements, make estimates for liabilities or assets previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates or pay cash settlements or judgments. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial statements in any particular period. We cannot assure you that our liabilities in connection with litigation and similar proceedings will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements and reputation. However, based on the information we currently have we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with litigation and similar proceedings in excess of our reserves as of December 31, 2011 will have a material effect on our financial statements.  

22  

Table of Contents 

If we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.  

We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business. The intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not be sufficiently broad or otherwise may not provide us a significant competitive advantage, and patents may not be issued for pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. In addition, the steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and financial statements.  

We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary rights.  

Third parties may claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights and we could suffer significant litigation expenses, losses or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services.  

From time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. Any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of many of our technologies and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position and financial statements. Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our financial statements.  

Product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements.  

Manufacturing or design defects in (including in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products that we make or sell can lead to personal injury, death or property damage. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. Recalls, removals and product liability claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products.  

Our indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow, and any failure to comply with the covenants that apply to our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.  

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $5.3 billion in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, based on the availability under our credit facilities as of December 31, 2011, we had the ability to incur an additional $1.5 billion of indebtedness in direct borrowings or under our outstanding commercial paper facilities. Our debt level and related debt service obligations can have negative consequences, including (1) requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and capital investment; (2) reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and (3) exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. We may incur significantly more debt in the future, particularly to finance acquisitions.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Our current revolving credit facility and long-term debt obligations also impose certain restrictions on us; for more information please refer to the MD&A. If we breach any of these restrictions and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, subject to applicable cure periods the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, any failure to maintain the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies would adversely affect our cost of funds and could adversely affect our liquidity and access to the capital markets. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase.  

Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns of, key distributors and other channel partners could adversely affect our financial statements.  

Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to key distributors and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end-users. Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors’ products, and if they favor our competitors’ products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively. Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, or adverse developments in their financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns, could adversely affect our financial statements. Changes in the levels of inventory maintained by our distributors and other channel partners can also significantly impact our results of operations in any given period. In addition, the consolidation of distributors in certain of our served industries, as well as the formation of large and sophisticated purchasing groups in industries such as healthcare, could adversely impact our profitability.  

We may incur higher costs to produce our products if commodity prices rise.  

As discussed in “Item 1. Business – Materials,” our manufacturing and other operations employ a wide variety of raw materials. Prices for and availability of these raw materials have fluctuated significantly in the past. Due to the highly competitive nature of the industries that we serve, the cost-containment efforts of our customers and the terms of certain contracts we are party to, if commodity prices rise we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we are unable to fully recover higher raw material costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, or if there is a time delay between the increase in costs and our ability to recover or offset these costs, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our financial statements could be adversely affected.  

If we cannot adjust the purchases required for our manufacturing activities to reflect changing market conditions or customer demand, our profitability may suffer. In addition, our reliance upon sole sources of supply for certain materials and components could cause production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies.  

We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Our income could be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations, including those caused by seasonality or cyclicality. During a market upturn, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices. If we cannot purchase sufficient products at competitive prices and quality and on a timely enough basis to meet increasing demand, we may not be able to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our costs may increase. Conversely, in order to secure supplies for the production of products, we sometimes enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to reflect declining market demands. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability may suffer.  

In addition, some of our businesses purchase certain requirements from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, availability or uniqueness of design. If these or other suppliers encounter financial, operating or other difficulties or if our relationship with them changes, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply. The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by supplier capacity constraints, decreased availability of key raw materials or commodities and external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes. Any of these factors could result in production interruptions, delays, extended lead times and inefficiencies.  

If we cannot adjust our manufacturing capacity to reflect the demand for our products, our profitability may suffer.  

Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our profitability.  

24  

Table of Contents 

Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses.  

We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as regulations governing health and safety, the environment, food and drugs, privacy and electronic communications. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Any significant change in any of these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. In addition, in certain of our markets our growth depends in part upon the introduction of new regulations. In these markets, the delay or failure of governmental and other entities to adopt or enforce new regulations, or the adoption of new regulations which our products and services are not positioned to address, could adversely affect demand for our products. In addition, the manner in which regulations and related regulatory deadlines impact demand for our products may be substantially different from period to period.  

Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations.  

We have a number of U.S. collective bargaining units and various non-U.S. collective labor arrangements. We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and potential labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations.  

International economic, political, legal and business factors could negatively affect our financial statements.  

In 2011, approximately 58% of our sales were derived from customers outside the U.S. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located outside the U.S. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S. and increase the localization of our products and services, we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the U.S., particularly in emerging markets, such as China, India and Brazil. Our international business (and particularly our business in emerging markets) is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations, including:  

   •    interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers;  

   •    differences in terms of sale, including payment terms;  

   •    local product preferences and product requirements;  

   •    changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions (including safety and health issues);  

   •    trade protection measures and import or export restrictions and requirements;  

   •    unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including negative changes in tax laws;  

   •    limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash;  

   •    the potential for nationalization of enterprises;  

   •    limitations on legal rights and our ability to enforce such rights;  

   •    difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;  

   •    differing labor regulations;  

   •    difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; and  

   •    differing protection of intellectual property.  

Any of these risks could negatively affect our financial statements and growth.  

If we suffer loss to our facilities, distribution systems or information technology systems due to catastrophe, attacks or other events, our operations could be seriously harmed.  

Our facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. In addition, attacks on our information technology systems and networks could result in the compromising of confidential information, manipulation or destruction of data or improper use of our systems and networks. If any of these facilities, systems or networks were to experience a catastrophic loss or attack, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in defective products or services, damage customer relationships and our reputation and result in legal exposure and large repair or replacement expenses. The third-party insurance coverage that we maintain with respect to these and other risks will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against losses.  

25  

Table of Contents 

Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our financial statements.  

The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our defined benefit pension plan expenses and funding obligations. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets, investment losses on plan assets and changes in discount rates may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our financial statements.  

We own a 50% interest in but do not control the Apex Tool Group joint venture, and as a result we may not be able to direct management of the joint venture in a manner that we believe is in Danaher’s best interests.  

In 2010, Danaher and Cooper Industries plc formed a joint venture named Apex Tool Group LLC. Each company contributed its respective tools business to, and received a 50% interest in, the joint venture. Our joint venture partner may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the joint venture. Since we do not control the joint venture, we may not be able to direct the management and operations of the joint venture in the manner that we believe is most appropriate. In addition, the joint venture agreement gives each party veto rights with respect to certain fundamental corporate actions, and as a result we cannot assure you that we could effect certain fundamental corporate actions that we believe would be in Danaher’s best interests. Any of these circumstances and any conflict that may arise between the parties could adversely impact our financial statements.  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES