PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

General  

Danaher Corporation (“Danaher,” “Company,” “we,” “us,” “our”) designs, manufactures and markets professional, medical, industrial and commercial products and services, which are typically characterized by strong brand names, innovative technology and major market positions. Our research and development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, service and administrative facilities are located in more than 50 countries. Our business consists of five segments: Test & Measurement; Environmental; Life Sciences & Diagnostics; Dental; and Industrial Technologies. We strive to create shareholder value through:  

   •    delivering sales growth, excluding the impact of acquired businesses, in excess of the overall market growth for the types of products and services we provide;  

   •    upper quartile financial performance compared to our peer companies; and  

   •    upper quartile cash flow generation from operations compared to our peer companies.  

To accomplish these goals, we use a set of tools and processes, known as the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM (“DBS”), which are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost and innovation. Within the DBS framework, we pursue a number of ongoing strategic initiatives relating to idea generation, product development and commercialization, global sourcing of materials and services, manufacturing improvement and sales and marketing.  

To further these objectives we also acquire businesses that either strategically fit within our existing business portfolio or expand our portfolio into a new and attractive business area. Given the rapid pace of technological development and the specialized expertise typical of our served markets, acquisitions also provide us important access to new technologies and domain expertise. We believe there are many acquisition opportunities available within our target markets. The extent to which we make and effectively integrate appropriate acquisitions will affect our overall growth and operating results. We also continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Danaher Corporation, originally DMG, Inc., was organized in 1969 as a Massachusetts real estate investment trust. In 1978 it was reorganized as a Florida corporation under the name Diversified Mortgage Investors, Inc. (“DMI”) which in a second reorganization in 1980 became a subsidiary of a newly created holding company named DMG, Inc. DMG, Inc. adopted the name Danaher in 1984 and was reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1986.  

Sales in 2011 by geographic destination were: North America, 46% (including 42% in the U.S.); Europe, 28%; Asia/Australia, 20%; and other regions, 6%. For additional information regarding sales by geography, please refer to Note 20 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.  

Reportable Segments  

The table below describes the percentage of our total annual revenues attributable to each of our five segments over each of the last three years. For additional information regarding sales, operating profit and identifiable assets by segment, please refer to Note 20 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

TEST & MEASUREMENT  

Our Test & Measurement segment is a leading global provider of electronic measurement instruments and monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications and enterprise networks and related services. The segment’s products are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Customers for these products and services include manufacturers of electronic instruments; service, installation and maintenance professionals; manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment; and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communications networks and services. Sales for this segment in 2011 by geographic destination were: North America, 53%; Europe, 19%; Asia/Australia, 22%; and other regions, 6%.  

We established our Test & Measurement business in 1998 through the acquisition of Fluke Corporation, and have expanded the business through numerous subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Tektronix, Inc. in 2007 and Keithley Instruments, Inc. in 2010. Our Test & Measurement segment consists of the following lines of business.  

Instruments  

Our business designs, manufactures, and markets a variety of compact professional test tools, thermal imaging and calibration equipment for electrical, industrial, electronic and calibration applications. These test products measure voltage, current, resistance, power quality, frequency, pressure, temperature and air quality. Typical users of these products include electrical engineers, electricians, electronic technicians, medical technicians, and industrial maintenance professionals. Our business also offers general purpose test products and video test, measurement and monitoring products used in electronic design, manufacturing and advanced technology development. The business’ general purpose test products, including oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, signal sources and spectrum analyzers, are used to capture, display and analyze streams of electrical data. We sell these products into a variety of industries with significant electronic content, including the communications, computer, consumer electronics, education, military/aerospace and semiconductor industries. Typical users include research and development engineers who use our general purpose test products to design, de-bug, monitor and validate the function and performance of electronic components, subassemblies and end-products. Our video test products include waveform monitors, video signal generators, compressed digital video test products and other test and measurement equipment used to enhance a viewer’s video experience. Typical users of these products include video equipment manufacturers, content developers and traditional television broadcasters.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Products in this business are marketed under the FLUKE, TEKTRONIX, KEITHLEY, RAYTEK, FLUKE BIOMEDICAL, AMPROBE and MAXTEK brands. Competition in the instruments business is based on a number of factors, including the performance, ruggedness, ease of use, ergonomics and aesthetics of the product, as well as the other factors described under “—Competition.” Sales in the instruments business are generally made through independent distributors and direct sales personnel.  

Communications  

The communications businesses offer network management solutions, handheld and fixed diagnostic equipment and security solutions, as well as related installation and maintenance services, for a wide range of private network applications as well fixed and mobile communications systems. Communications service providers use our products to ensure the reliability of their network equipment, expand their service offerings and operate their networks at ever-increasing loads. Typical users of the business’ products include network engineers, installers, operators, and technicians. Our network management tools help network operators continuously manage network performance and optimize the utilization, uptime and service quality of the network.  

Products in this business are marketed under the TEKTRONIX, FLUKE NETWORKS, ARBOR, VISUAL NETWORKS and AIRMAGNET brands. Competition in the communications business is based on a number of factors, including product performance, technology and product availability as well as the other factors described under “—Competition.” Sales in the communications business are generally made through direct sales personnel as well as independent distributors and resellers.  

Other Businesses  

Matco Tools manufactures and distributes professional tools, toolboxes and automotive equipment through independent mobile distributors, who sell primarily to professional mechanics under the MATCO brand. Professional mechanics typically select tools based on relevant innovative features and the other factors described under “—Competition.” Hennessy Industries is a leading North American full-line wheel service equipment manufacturer, providing brake lathes, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel balancers, and wheel weights under the AMMCO, BADA and COATS brands. Typical users of these products are automotive tire and repair shops. Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel, independent distributors, retailers, and original equipment manufacturers.  

Test & Measurement segment manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, and Asia.  

ENVIRONMENTAL  

Our Environmental segment provides products that help protect our water supply and air quality and serves two primary markets: water quality and retail/commercial petroleum. Sales for this segment in 2011 by geographic destination were: North America, 48%; Europe, 26%; Asia/Australia, 16%; and other regions, 10%. Our Environmental segment consists of the following lines of business.  

Water Quality  

Danaher’s water quality business is a global leader in water quality analysis and treatment, providing instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze and manage the quality of ultra pure, potable and waste water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications. We entered the water quality sector in the late 1990’s through the acquisitions of Dr. Lange and Hach Company, and have enhanced our geographical coverage and product and service breadth through subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Viridor Instrumentation in 2002, Trojan Technologies Inc. in 2004 and ChemTreat, Inc. in 2007. To expand our presence in emerging markets, in 2009 we acquired Hexis Cientifica S/A, a leading distributor of scientific laboratory products in Brazil. Our water quality operations design, manufacture and market:  

   •    a wide range of analytical instruments, related consumables, and associated services that detect and measure chemical, physical, and microbiological parameters in ultra pure, potable and waste water as well as groundwater and ocean bodies;  

5  

Table of Contents 

   •    ultraviolet disinfection systems, which disinfect billions of gallons of municipal, industrial and consumer water every day in more than 35 countries; and  

   •    industrial water treatment solutions, including chemical treatment solutions intended to address corrosion, scaling and biological growth problems in boiler, cooling water and industrial waste water applications as well as associated analytical services.  

Typical users of our analytical instruments, ultraviolet disinfection systems, industrial water treatment solutions and related consumables and services include professionals in municipal drinking water and waste water treatment plants and industrial process water and waste water treatment facilities, third-party testing laboratories and environmental field operations. Customers in these industries choose suppliers based on a number of factors including the customer’s existing supplier relationships, product performance and ease of use, the comprehensiveness of the supplier’s product offering and the other factors described under “—Competition.” Our water quality business provides products under a variety of well-known brands, including HACH, HACH/LANGE, TROJAN TECHNOLOGIES and CHEMTREAT. Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, and Asia. Sales are made through our direct sales personnel, independent representatives and independent distributors and directly through our websites.  

Retail/Commercial Petroleum  

We have served the retail/commercial petroleum market since the mid-1980s through our Veeder-Root business, and have enhanced our geographic coverage and product and service breadth through various acquisitions including the acquisitions of Red Jacket in 2001, Gilbarco in 2002 and Autotank Ltd. in 2008. To expand our presence in emerging markets, in 2010 the Company acquired the petroleum dispenser business of Larsen & Toubro, an Indian manufacturer of retail petroleum equipment. Today, Gilbarco Veeder-Root is a leading worldwide provider of products and services for the retail/commercial petroleum market, including:  

   •    environmental monitoring and leak detection systems;  

   •    vapor recovery equipment;  

   •    fuel dispensers;  

   •    point-of-sale and secure electronic payment technologies for retail petroleum stations;  

   •    submersible turbine pumps; and  

   •    remote monitoring and outsourced fuel management services, including compliance services, fuel system maintenance, and inventory planning and supply chain support.  

Typical users of these products include independent and company-owned retail petroleum stations, high-volume retailers, convenience stores, and commercial vehicle fleets. Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors including product features, performance and functionality, the supplier’s geographical coverage and the other factors described under “—Competition.” We market our retail/commercial petroleum products under a variety of brands, including GILBARCO, VEEDER-ROOT, and GILBARCO AUTOTANK. Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. Sales are generally made through independent distributors and our direct sales personnel.  

LIFE SCIENCES & DIAGNOSTICS  

Our diagnostics businesses offer a broad range of analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physician’s offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. Our life sciences businesses offer a broad range of research and clinical tools that are used by scientists to study cells and cell components to gain a better understanding of complex biological matters. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, medical schools and research institutions use these tools to study the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines. Sales for this segment in 2011 by geographic destination were: Europe, 37%; North America, 31%; Asia/Australia, 27%; and other regions, 5%. Sales by geographic destination in 2012 are expected to differ from sales by geographic destination during 2011 as a result of the June 2011 acquisition of Beckman Coulter, Inc. (“Beckman Coulter”) discussed below. More of the segment’s 2012 sales are anticipated to be in North America as compared to any other geography.  

Diagnostics  

We established our diagnostics business in 2004 through the acquisition of Radiometer. We have expanded the business through numerous subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Leica Microsystems in 2005, Vision Systems in 2006, Genetix in 2009 and Beckman Coulter in 2011, which more than doubled the size of the business. The diagnostics business consists of our core lab, acute care and pathology diagnostics businesses.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Our core lab diagnostics business is a leading manufacturer and marketer of biomedical testing instrument systems, tests and supplies that are used to evaluate and analyze samples made up of body fluids, cells and other substances. The information generated is used to diagnose disease, monitor and guide treatment and therapy, assist in managing chronic disease and assess patient status in the hospital, outpatient and physician office settings. The business offers the following products:  

   •    Our chemistry systems use electrochemical detection and chemical reactions with patient samples to detect and quantify substances of diagnostic interest in blood and other body fluids. Commonly performed tests include glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, electrolytes, proteins and enzymes.  

   •    Our immunoassay systems also detect and quantify chemical substances of diagnostic interest in body fluids, particularly in circumstances where more specialized diagnosis is required. Commonly performed immunoassay tests assess thyroid function, screen and monitor for cancer and cardiac risk and provide important information in fertility and reproductive testing.  

   •    Our cellular analysis business includes hematology, flow cytometry and coagulation products. The business’ hematology systems use principles of physics, optics, electronics and chemistry to separate cells of diagnostic interest and then quantify and characterize them, allowing clinicians to study formed elements in blood (such as red and white blood cells and platelets). The business’ flow cytometry products rapidly sort, identify, categorize and characterize multiple types of cells in suspension, allowing clinicians to determine cell types and characteristics and analyze specific cell populations based on molecular differences. The business also distributes coagulation products, which rely on clotting, chromogenic and immunologic technologies to provide the detailed information that clinicians require to diagnose bleeding and clotting disorders and to monitor anticoagulant therapy.  

   •    We also offer systems and workflow solutions that allow laboratories to automate a number of steps from the pre-analytical through post-analytical stages including sample barcoding/information tracking, centrifugation, aliquotting, storage and conveyance. These systems along with the analyzers above are controlled through laboratory level software that enables laboratory managers to monitor samples, results and lab efficiency.  

Typical users of the business’ core lab diagnostics products include hospitals, physician’s offices, veterinary laboratories, reference laboratories and pharmaceutical clinical trial laboratories.  

Our acute care diagnostics business is a leading worldwide provider of instruments and related consumables and services that are used in both laboratory and point-of-care environments to rapidly measure critical parameters, including blood gases, electrolytes, metabolites and cardiac markers. Typical users of these products include hospital central laboratories, intensive care units, hospital operating rooms and hospital emergency rooms.  

Our pathology diagnostics business is a leading histology company in the anatomical pathology market, offering a comprehensive suite of instrumentation and related consumables used across the entire workflow of a pathology laboratory. Our pathology diagnostics products include tissue embedding, processing and slicing (microtomes) instruments and related reagents and consumables; chemical and immuno-staining instruments, reagents, antibodies and consumables; slide coverslipping and slide/cassette marking instruments; and imaging instrumentation including slide scanners, microscopes, cameras and associated software. Typical users of these products include pathologists, lab managers and researchers.  

Customers in the diagnostics industry select products based on a number of factors, including product quality and reliability, the scope of tests that can be performed, the accuracy and speed of the product, the product’s ability to enhance productivity, total cost of ownership and access to a highly qualified service and support network as well as the other factors described under “—Competition.” Our diagnostics business generally markets its products under the BECKMAN COULTER, LEICA BIOSYSTEMS, RADIOMETER and SURGIPATH brands. Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. The businesses sell to customers primarily through direct sales personnel and to a lesser extent through independent distributors.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Life Sciences  

We established our life sciences business in 2005 through the acquisition of Leica Microsystems, and have expanded the business through numerous subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in 2010 and Beckman Coulter, Inc. in 2011. The life sciences business consists of the following businesses.  

Our microscopy business is a leading global provider of professional microscopes designed to manipulate, preserve and capture images of, and enhance the user’s visualization of, microscopic structures. Our microscopy products include:  

   •    laser scanning (confocal) microscopes;  

   •    compound microscopes and related equipment;  

   •    surgical and other stereo microscopes; and  

   •    specimen preparation products for electron microscopy; and  

   •    digital image capture and manipulation equipment.  

Typical users of these products include research, medical and surgical professionals operating in research and pathology laboratories, academic settings and surgical theaters.  

We also offer workflow instruments and consumables that help researchers analyze genomic, protein and cellular information. Key product areas include sample preparation equipment such as centrifugation and capillary electrophoresis instrumentation and consumables; liquid handling automation instruments and associated consumables; flow cytometry instrumentation and associated antibodies and reagents; and particle characterization instrumentation. The business also offers genome profiling services. Researchers use the business’ products to study biological function in the pursuit of basic research, therapeutic and diagnostic development. Typical users of these products include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, medical schools and research institutions and in some cases industrial manufacturers.  

Our mass spectrometry business is a leading global provider of high-end mass spectrometers. Mass spectrometry is a technique for identifying, analyzing and quantifying elements, chemical compounds and biological molecules, individually or in complex mixtures. Our products utilize various combinations of quadrupole, time-of-flight and ion trap technologies, and are typically used in conjunction with a third party liquid chromatography instrument. Our mass spectrometer systems are used in numerous applications such as drug discovery and clinical development of therapeutics as well as in basic research, clinical testing, food and beverage quality testing and environmental testing. To support our installations around the world, we provide implementation, validation, training, maintenance and support from our global services network. Typical users of our mass spectrometry products include molecular biologists, bioanalytical chemists, toxicologists, and forensic scientists as well as quality assurance and quality control technicians. We also provide high-performance bioanalytical measurement systems, including microplate readers, automated cellular screening products and associated reagents, and imaging software. Typical users of these products include biologists and chemists engaged in research and drug discovery, who use these products to determine electrical or chemical activity in cell samples.  

Customers in the life sciences industry select products based on a number of factors, including product quality and reliability, innovation (particularly productivity and sensitivity improvements), the product’s capacity to enhance productivity, product performance and ergonomics, access to a highly qualified service and support network and the other factors described under “—Competition.” Our life sciences business generally markets its products under the LEICA MICROSYSTEMS, BECKMAN COULTER, AB SCIEX and MOLECULAR DEVICES brands. Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, Australia, Asia and North America. The businesses sell to customers primarily through direct sales personnel and to a lesser extent through independent distributors.  

DENTAL  

Our Dental segment is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of consumables, equipment and services for the dental market, which encompasses the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone. The market we serve encompasses the whole working environment of an oral health professional and we are dedicated to driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity. Sales for this segment in 2011 by geographic destination were: North America, 49%; Europe, 34%; Asia/Australia, 10%; and other regions, 7%.  

8  

Table of Contents 

We entered the dental business in 2004 through the acquisitions of KaVo and Gendex and have enhanced our geographical coverage and product and service breadth through subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Sybron Dental Specialties in 2006 and PaloDEx Group Oy in 2009. Today, our dental businesses develop, manufacture and market the following dental consumables and dental equipment:  

   •    orthodontic bracket systems and lab products;  

   •    impression, bonding and restorative materials;  

   •    endodontic systems and related consumables;  

   •    infection prevention products;  

   •    implant systems;  

   •    diamond and carbide rotary instruments.  

   •    digital imaging and other visualization and magnification systems;  

   •    air and electric handpieces and associated consumables; and  

   •    treatment units.  

Typical customers and users of these products include general dentists, dental specialists, dental hygienists, dental laboratories and other oral health professionals, as well as educational, medical and governmental entities. Dental professionals choose dental products based on a number of factors including product performance, the product’s capacity to enhance productivity and the other factors described under “—Competition.” Our dental products are marketed primarily under the KAVO, GENDEX, iCAT, INSTRUMENTARIUM DENTAL, SOREDEX, PELTON & CRANE, DEXIS, ORMCO, KERR, PENTRON, SYBRON ENDO and TOTAL CARE brands. Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, North America and Latin America. Sales are primarily made through independent distributors and, to a lesser extent, through direct sales personnel.  

INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES  

Our Industrial Technologies segment designs and manufactures components and systems that are typically incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and systems integrators for sale into a diverse set of applications and end-markets. The businesses in this segment also provide service and support, including helping customers with integration and installation and providing services to ensure performance and up-time. Sales for this segment in 2011 by geographic destination were: North America, 45%; Europe, 32%; Asia/Australia, 16%; and other regions, 7%. Our Industrial Technologies segment consists of the following lines of business.  

Product Identification  

Danaher’s product identification business is a leading global provider of equipment and consumables for variable printing, marking and coding on a wide variety of consumer and industrial products. We entered the product identification market through the acquisition of Videojet in 2002, and have expanded our product and geographic coverage through various subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Willett International Limited in 2003, Linx Printing Technologies PLC in 2005 and EskoArtwork in 2011. Our businesses design, manufacture, and market a variety of equipment used to print bar codes, date codes, lot codes, and other information on primary and secondary packaging. Our equipment can apply high-quality alphanumeric codes, logos and graphics to a wide range of surfaces at a variety of line speeds, angles and locations on a product or package. With the recent acquisition of EskoArtwork, the business is now also a leading full service solutions provider for the digital packaging design and production market. Typical users of the product identification business’ products include food and beverage manufacturers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, retailers and commercial printing and mailing operations. Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including printer speed and accuracy, equipment uptime and reliable operation without interruption, ease of maintenance, service coverage and the other factors described under “—Competition.” Our product identification products are primarily marketed under the VIDEOJET, LINX, FOBA and ESKOARTWORK brands. Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Latin America, and Asia. Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors.  

Motion  

We are one of the leading worldwide providers of electromechanical motion control solutions for the industrial automation and packaging markets. We entered the motion control industry through the acquisition of Pacific Scientific Company in 1998, and subsequently expanded our product and geographic breadth with the acquisitions of American Precision Industries, Kollmorgen Corporation and the motion businesses of Warner Electric Company in 2000, and Thomson Industries in 2002, among others. Our businesses provide a wide range of products including:  

   •    standard and custom motors;  

9  

Table of Contents 

   •    drives;  

   •    controls; and  

   •    mechanical components (such as ball screws, linear bearings, clutches/brakes, and linear actuators).  

These products are sold in various precision motion markets such as the markets for packaging equipment, medical equipment, robotics, circuit board assembly equipment, elevators and electric vehicles (such as lift trucks). Customers are typically systems integrators who use our products in production and packaging lines and OEMs that integrate our products into their machines and systems. Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including product performance, the comprehensiveness of the supplier’s product offering, the geographical coverage offered by the supplier and the other factors described under “—Competition.” Our motion products are marketed under a variety of brands, including KOLLMORGEN, THOMSON, DOVER and PORTESCAP. Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Latin America, and Asia. Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors.  

Other Businesses  

Our sensors & controls products include instruments that monitor, sense and control discrete manufacturing variables such as temperature, position, quantity, level, flow and time. Users of these products span a wide variety of manufacturing markets. Certain businesses included in this group also make and sell instruments, controls and monitoring systems used by the electric utility industry to monitor their transmission and distribution systems, as well as automatic identification solutions. These products are marketed under a variety of brands, including DYNAPAR, HENGSTLER, IRIS POWER, WEST, GEMS SENSORS, SETRA and QUALITROL. Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors.  

Our defense business designs, manufactures, and markets energetic material systems. Typical users of these products include defense systems integrators and prime contractors. Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including the supplier’s experience with the particular technology or application in the defense industry and the other factors described under “—Competition.” Our defense products are typically marketed under the PACIFIC SCIENTIFIC ENERGETIC MATERIALS COMPANY brand. In February 2012, the Company sold its Kollmorgen Electro-Optical (“KEO”) business. The KEO business designs, develops, manufactures and integrates highly engineered, stabilized electro-optical/ISR systems that integrate into submarines, surface ships and ground vehicles.  

Jacobs Vehicle Systems (“JVS”) is a leading worldwide supplier of supplemental braking systems for commercial vehicles, selling JAKE BRAKE brand engine retarders for class 6 through 8 vehicles and bleeder and exhaust brakes for class 2 through 7 vehicles. Customers are primarily major manufacturers of class 2 through class 8 vehicles, and sales are typically made through our direct sales personnel.  

Manufacturing facilities of our sensors & controls, defense and JVS businesses are located in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia.  

APEX TOOL GROUP JOINT VENTURE  

In 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc, combining certain of the Company’s hand tool businesses with Cooper’s Tools business to form a new entity called Apex Tool Group, LLC (“Apex”). Each of Cooper and the Company owns a 50% interest in Apex and has an equal number of representatives on Apex’s Board of Directors.  

************************************  

The following discussions of Materials, Intellectual Property, Competition, Seasonal Nature of Business, Working Capital, Backlog, Employee Relations, Research and Development, Government Contracts, Regulatory Matters, International Operations and Major Customers include information common to all of our segments.  

Materials  

Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including steel, copper, cast iron, electronic components, aluminum, plastics and other petroleum-based products. Prices of oil and gas also affect our costs for freight and utilities. We purchase raw materials from a large number of independent sources around the world. No  

10  

Table of Contents 

 single supplier is material, although for some components that require particular specifications there may be a limited number of suppliers that can readily provide such components. We utilize a number of techniques to address potential disruption in our supply chain, including in certain cases the use of alternative materials and qualification of multiple supply sources. During 2011 we had no raw material shortages that had a material effect on our business. For a further discussion of risks related to the materials and components required for our operations, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Intellectual Property  

We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others. Although in aggregate our intellectual property is important to our operations, we do not consider any single patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or license to be of material importance to any segment or to the business as a whole. From time to time we engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. For a discussion of risks related to our intellectual property, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” All capitalized brands and product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, Danaher or its subsidiaries.  

Competition  

Although our businesses generally operate in highly competitive markets, our competitive position cannot be determined accurately in the aggregate or by segment since none of our competitors offer all of the same product lines or serve all of the same markets as we do. Because of the diversity of the products we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors, including well-established regional competitors, competitors who are more specialized than we are in particular markets, as well as larger companies or divisions of larger companies with substantial sales, marketing, research, and financial capabilities. We are facing increased competition in a number of our served markets as a result of the entry of new, large companies into certain markets, the entry of competitors based in low-cost manufacturing locations, and increasing consolidation in particular markets. The number of competitors varies by product line. Our management believes that we have a market leadership position in many of the markets we serve. Key competitive factors vary among our businesses and product lines, but include the specific factors noted above with respect to each particular business and typically also include price, quality, delivery speed, service and support, innovation, distribution network, breadth of product and service offerings and brand name recognition. For a discussion of risks related to competition, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Seasonal Nature of Business  

General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and certain of our businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the industries and end-markets that they serve. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months, sales to the United States government are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, medical and capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter and sales to original equipment manufacturers are often stronger immediately preceding and following the launch of new products. However, as a whole, we are not subject to material seasonality.  

Working Capital  

We maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business needs. There are no unusual industry practices or requirements relating to working capital items. In addition, our sales and payment terms are generally similar to those of our competitors.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Backlog  

The table below provides the unfulfilled orders attributable to each of our five segments at the end of 2011 and 2010 ($ in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We expect that a large majority of the unfilled orders as of December 31, 2011 will be delivered to customers within 3 to 4 months of such date. Given the relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover that are characteristic of most of our products and the shortening of product life cycles, we believe that backlog is indicative of short-term revenue performance but not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance.  

Employee Relations   

At December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 59,000 persons, of whom approximately 26,000 were employed in the United States and approximately 33,000 were employed outside of the United States. Of our United States employees, approximately 1,500 were hourly-rated, unionized employees. Outside the United States, we have government-mandated collective bargaining arrangements and union contracts in certain countries, particularly in Europe where many of our employees are represented by unions and/or works councils. For a discussion of risks related to employee relations, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Research and Development  

The table below describes our research and development expenditures over each of the last three years, by segment and in the aggregate ($ in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We conduct research and development activities for the purpose of developing new products, enhancing the functionality, effectiveness, ease of use and reliability of our existing products and expanding the applications for which uses of our products are appropriate. Our research and development efforts include internal initiatives and those that use licensed or acquired technology. The Company conducts research and development activities on a business-by-business basis, primarily in North America, Europe and Asia. We anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position. For a discussion of the risks related to the need to develop and commercialize new products and product enhancements, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2011, 2010 or 2009.  

Government Contracts  

Although the substantial majority of our revenue in 2011 was from customers other than governmental entities, each of our segments has agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities. As a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with governments. For a discussion of risks related to government contracting requirements, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

12  

Table of Contents 

Regulatory Matters  

We face comprehensive government regulation both within and outside the United States relating to the development, manufacture, sale and distribution of our products and services. The following sections describe certain significant regulations that we are subject to. These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with. For a description of the risks related to the regulations that our businesses are subject to, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Environmental Laws and Regulations  

Our operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. A number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in both the United States and abroad in connection with our operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had and, based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, is not expected to have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and we do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. For a discussion of risks related to compliance with environmental and health and safety laws, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

In addition to environmental compliance costs, we from time to time incur costs related to alleged damages associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. For example, generators of hazardous substances found in disposal sites at which environmental problems are alleged to exist, as well as the current and former owners of those sites and certain other classes of persons, are subject to claims brought by state and federal regulatory agencies pursuant to statutory authority. We have received notification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and from state and non-U.S. environmental agencies, that conditions at certain sites where we and others previously disposed of hazardous wastes and/or are or were property owners require clean-up and other possible remedial action, including sites where we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under U.S. federal and state environmental laws. We have projects underway at a number of current and former facilities, in both the United States and abroad, to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. Remediation activities generally relate to soil and/or groundwater contamination and may include pre-remedial activities such as fact-finding and investigation, risk assessment, feasibility study, and/or design, as well as remediation actions such as contaminant removal, monitoring and/or installation, operation and maintenance of longer-term remediation systems. We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances.  

We have made a provision for environmental investigation and remediation and environmental-related claims with respect to sites owned or formerly owned by the Company and its subsidiaries and third-party sites where we have been determined to be a potentially responsible party. We generally make an assessment of the costs involved for our remediation efforts based on environmental studies, as well as our prior experience with similar sites. The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of our involvement in certain sites, uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to certain sites and the fact that imposition of joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations. If we determine that potential liability for a particular site or with respect to a personal injury claim is probable and reasonably estimable, we accrue the total estimated loss, including investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site or claim. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had a reserve of $141 million for environmental matters which are probable and reasonably estimable (of which $92 million are non-current), which reflects the Company’s best estimate of the costs to be incurred with respect to such matters. Please see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our environmental reserves.  

All provisions have been recorded without giving effect to any possible future third party recoveries. While we actively pursue insurance recoveries, as well as recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, we do not recognize any insurance recoveries for environmental liability claims until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a similar nature and magnitude.  

13  

Table of Contents 

For a discussion of risks related to past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Medical Device and Other Healthcare Regulations  

Certain of our products are classified as medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”). The FDCA requires these products, when sold in the United States, to be safe and effective for their intended use and to comply with the regulations administered by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). Our medical device products are also regulated by comparable agencies in non-U.S. countries where our products are sold.  

The FDA’s regulatory requirements include:  

   •    Establishment Registration. We must register with the FDA each facility where regulated products are developed or manufactured. The FDA periodically inspects these facilities.  

   •    Marketing Authorization. We must obtain FDA authorization to begin marketing a regulated, non-exempted product in the United States. For some of our products, this authorization is obtained by submitting a 510(k) pre-market notification, which simply provides data on the performance of the product to allow the FDA to determine substantial equivalence to a product already in commercial distribution in the United States. Other of our products must go through a formal pre-market approval process which includes the performance of clinical studies and may include review of the product by a scientific review panel.  

   •    Quality Systems. We are required to establish a quality system that includes procedures for ensuring regulated products are developed, manufactured and distributed in accordance with specified standards. We also must establish procedures for investigating and responding to customer complaints regarding the performance of regulated products.  

   •    Labeling. The labeling for the products must contain specified information. In some cases, the FDA must review and approve the labeling and any quality assurance protocols specified in the labeling.  

   •    Imports and Exports. The FDCA establishes requirements for importing and exporting products into and from the United States. In general, any limitations on importing and exporting products apply only to products that have not received marketing authorization.  

   •    Post-market Reporting. After regulated products have been distributed to customers, we may receive product complaints requiring us to investigate and report to the FDA certain events involving the products. We also must notify the FDA when we conduct recalls or certain types of field corrective actions involving our products.  

In the European Union, a single medical device regulatory approval process exists. Regulated products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (known as the “essential requirements”), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. Unlike United States regulations, which require virtually all devices to undergo some level of premarket review by the FDA, the EU regulations allow manufacturers to bring many devices to market using a process in which the manufacturer certifies that the device conforms to the essential requirements for that device. Certain products must go through a more formal pre-market review process. We are also required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use in a timely manner to the competent authorities of the European Union countries. A number of other countries, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China and Japan, have also adopted or are in the process of adopting standards for medical devices sold in those countries.  

We are also subject to various laws regulating (1) fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, and (2) the privacy and security of health information, including the United States federal regulations described below. Many states and foreign countries have also adopted laws and regulations similar to, and in some cases more stringent than, such federal regulations.  

   •    The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid.  

   •    The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) prohibits knowingly and willfully (1) executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors, or (2) falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. In addition, HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, also restricts the use and disclosure of personal health information, mandates the adoption of standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information and requires us to report certain breaches of unsecured, individually identifiable health information.  

14  

Table of Contents 

   •    The False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal health care program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery.  

In addition, certain of our products utilize radioactive material, and we are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. For a discussion of risks related to our regulation by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries, and the other regulatory regimes referenced above, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Export/Import Compliance  

We are required to comply with various U.S. export/import control and economic sanctions laws, including:  

   •    the International Traffic in Arms Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which, among other things, imposes license requirements on the export from the United States of defense articles and defense services (which are items specifically designed or adapted for a military application and/or listed on the United States Munitions List);  

   •    the Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which, among other things, impose licensing requirements on the export or re-export of certain dual-use goods, technology and software (which are items that potentially have both commercial and military applications);  

   •    the regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, which implement economic sanctions imposed against designated countries, governments and persons based on United States foreign policy and national security considerations; and  

   •    the import regulatory activities of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.  

Other nations’ governments have implemented similar export and import control regulations, which may affect our operations or transactions subject to their jurisdictions. For a discussion of risks related to export/import control and economic sanctions laws, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

International Operations  

Our products and services are available worldwide, and our principal markets outside the United States are in Europe and Asia. We also have operations around the world, and this geographic diversity allows us to draw on the skills of a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, allows us to drive economies of scale, provides revenue streams that may help offset economic trends that are specific to individual economies and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for products. In addition, we believe that our future growth depends in part on our ability to develop products and sales models that successfully target developing countries. The table below describes annual revenue derived from customers outside the U.S. as a percentage of total annual revenue for each of the last three years, by segment and in the aggregate:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

15  

Table of Contents 

The table below describes long-lived assets located outside the United States as a percentage of total long-lived assets at the end of each of the last three years, by segment and in the aggregate (including assets held for sale):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For additional information related to revenues and long-lived assets by country, please refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and for information regarding deferred taxes by geography, please refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

The manner in which our products and services are sold outside the United States differs by business and by region. Most of our sales in non-U.S. markets are made by our subsidiaries located outside the United States, though we also sell directly from the U.S. into non-U.S. markets through various representatives and distributors. In countries with low sales volumes, we generally sell through representatives and distributors.  

Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 20 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and information about the possible effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our business is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” For a discussion of risks related to our non-US operations and foreign currency exchange, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Major Customers  

No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales in 2011, 2010 or 2009.  

Available Information  

We maintain an internet website at www.danaher.com. We make available free of charge on the website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with, or furnishing such material to, the SEC. Our Internet site and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.  

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS