Item 1A.    Risk Factors    

 Forward-Looking Information and Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results  

 From time to time, including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These “forward-looking statements” may relate to such matters as our anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, the expected content of and timing for new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the content and timing of entertainment releases, marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “looking forward,” “may,” “planned,” “potential,” “should,” “will” and “would” or any variations of words with similar meanings. We note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. The factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K. We undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts.   

 8   
 The volatility of ever-evolving consumer preferences, combined with the high level of competition and low barriers to entry in the family entertainment industry, make it difficult to achieve, maintain or build upon the success of our brands, products and product lines, or introduce successful new brands and products. In addition, an inability to develop and introduce planned new brands, products and product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business.  

 The children’s and family entertainment business is a trend-driven industry where consumer demands and interests evolve quickly. We may develop products which consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in significant quantities to be profitable to us. Similarly, brands or products that were successful at one time may lose consumer interest. Our ongoing success is critically dependent upon developing and maintaining the consumer appeal of our brands and products and in our ongoing ability to achieve and maintain market interest in and acceptance of our offerings to a degree that enables those brands and products to be profitable. Our failure to successfully anticipate, identify and react to children’s interests and the current preferences in family entertainment could significantly lower sales of our products and harm our business and profitability.  

 A decline in the popularity of our existing brands, products and product lines, or the failure of our new brands, products and product lines to achieve and sustain sufficient interest from retailers and consumers, could significantly lower our revenues and operating margins, which would in turn harm our profitability, business and financial condition. In our industry, it is critical to identify and offer what are considered to be the next “hot” toys, games and other entertainment offerings on children’s “wish lists” and to effectively anticipate children’s evolving entertainment interests. Our continued success will depend on our ability to develop, market and sell popular toys, games and other entertainment offerings, and license our brands for products which are sought after by both children and their parents, in spite of rapidly evolving consumer tastes. We seek to achieve and maintain market popularity for our brands and products through the continued re-imagination, re-invention, re-ignition and extension of our existing family entertainment properties in ways we believe will capture evolving consumer interest and imagination, offer immersive brand experiences and remain relevant in today’s world, and by developing, introducing and gaining customer interest for new family entertainment products. This process involves anticipating and extending successful play patterns, offering continual product innovation and identifying and developing entertainment concepts and properties that appeal to children’s imaginations and feed the human need for play. However, consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment are continuously changing and are difficult to anticipate and we may not successfully identify product offerings which are sought after by consumers. Evolving consumer tastes, coupled with an ever changing pipeline of entertainment properties and products which compete for consumer interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be extremely popular during a certain period in time but then rapidly be replaced in consumers’ minds with other properties. As a result, individual family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles.  

 Not only must we address rapidly changing consumer tastes and interests but we face competitors who are also constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer purchasing. In addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the family entertainment industry are low. New participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. In some cases our competitors’ products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products and lower our profitability.  

 The challenge of continuously developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the trend of children “getting older younger”. By this we mean that children are expanding their interests beyond traditional toys and games to a wider array of entertainment products at younger ages and, as a result, at younger and younger ages, our products compete with the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies, media and social media companies and other businesses outside of the traditional toy and game industry.   

 9   
 There is no guarantee that:  

    •   Any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular;   

    •   Any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity;   

    •   Any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance;   

    •   Any product’s life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product; or   

    •   We will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely and cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands, a risk that is heightened by our customers’ compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business.    

 In developing new brands, products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. When we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. Unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for products may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued.  

 Delays or increased costs associated with the development and offering of entertainment media based upon or related to our brands, or lack of sufficient consumer interest in such entertainment media, can harm our business and profitability.  

 As part of our strategy of offering immersive brand experiences, we look to offer consumers the ability to enjoy our brands in as many different forms and formats as possible. Entertainment media, in forms such as motion pictures and television, can provide popular platforms for consumers to experience our brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact demand for our products and our financial success.  

 The success of our products is often dependent on the timelines and effectiveness of media efforts. Television programming, movie and DVD releases, comic book releases, and other media efforts are often critical in generating interest in our products and brands. Not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the launch dates and success of these media efforts. When we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. Unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. Any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business.  

 Similarly, if our and our partners’ media efforts fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. In 2009 we entered into a joint venture with Discovery Communications, Inc. (“Discovery”). Through that joint venture, we launched a children’s and family entertainment channel called THE HUB in October of 2010. In connection with this joint venture effort, we also developed a wholly-owned studio, called Hasbro Studios, which is responsible for developing and producing television entertainment media, primarily based on our brands. The television programming developed by Hasbro Studios is offered in the United States on THE HUB and will be distributed on other networks internationally. THE HUB is competing with a number of other children’s television networks in the United States for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. There is no guarantee that THE HUB will be successful. Similarly, Hasbro Studios’ programming distributed internationally competes with programming by other parties. Lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of THE HUB, programming appearing on THE HUB, other programming developed by Hasbro Studios, and products related to that programming could    

 10   
 significantly harm our business. Similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with the development of Hasbro Studios programming. During 2010 the Company incurred $52,047 for programming developed by Hasbro Studios and anticipates that it will continue spending at increased levels in 2011 and future years.  

 At December 26, 2010, $354,612, or 8.7%, of our total assets represented our investment in THE HUB. If THE HUB does not achieve success, or there are subsequent declines in the success or profitability of the channel, then our investment may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings.  

 Economic downturns which negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or which otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance.  

 The success of our family entertainment products and our financial performance is dependent on consumer purchases of our products. Consumers may not purchase our products because the products do not capture consumer interest and imagination, or because competitor family entertainment offerings are deemed more attractive. But consumer spending on our products can also be harmed by factors that negatively impact consumers’ budgets generally, and which are not due to our product offerings.  

 Recessions and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the markets in which we operate can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. Similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. Any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. This in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability.  

 In addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. Those steps may lower our net revenues, decrease our operating margins, increase our costs and/or lower our profitability.  

 Other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability.  

 Various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our business.  

 Significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary entertainment products we offer. As we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. Economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices, or the prospect of such events. Such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability.  

 Our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. Rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business.  

 Other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. Additional factors    

 11   
 outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. For example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. Any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products.  

 We may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties.  

 In addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by other parties and licensed to us. The success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as MARVEL or STAR WARS related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. If we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. In addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. The loss of rights granted pursuant to any of our licensing agreements could harm our business and competitive position.  

 The license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. At December 26, 2010, we had $112,922 of prepaid royalties, $17,922 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $95,000 of which are included in other assets. Under the terms of existing contracts as of December 26, 2010, we may be required to pay future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $287,000. Acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. Additionally, as a licensee of entertainment based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy or game products.  

 We anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. In the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed.  

 Our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. This seasonality is exacerbated by retailers’ quick response inventory management techniques.  

 Sales of our family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through December in anticipation of the holiday season, including Christmas. This seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. Customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. For toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. As a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from September through December, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. While these techniques    

 12   
 reduce a retailer’s investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier.  

 The limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales, resulting in lower revenues for us. If we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to fully capture consumer interest in the product. Additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. This seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. Our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. In addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as a terrorist attack or economic shock, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events, such as strikes or port delays, that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the Far East, during the critical months leading up to the holiday purchasing season.  

 Our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the United States subject us to risks associated with international operations. Among these risks is the fact that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can significantly impact our financial performance.  

 We operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the United States. For the year ended December 26, 2010, our net revenues from international customers comprised approximately 46% of our total consolidated net revenues. We expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. In fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved markets. Additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers located principally in the Far East, to produce the majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in Ireland. These sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 13   
 Because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur.  

 If the exchange rate between the United States dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results, reported in U.S. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. As an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net sales, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into U.S. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. As such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. Similarly, our expenses in foreign markets can be significantly impacted, in U.S. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in U.S. dollar terms can be significantly harmed by exchange rate movements.  

 The concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on us.  

 We depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. For the fiscal year ended December 26, 2010, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Target Corporation, and Toys “R” Us, Inc., accounted for approximately 23%, 12% and 11%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including Wal-Mart, Target and Toys “R” Us, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 50% of our consolidated net revenues. In the U.S. and Canada segment, approximately 71% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. While the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this consolidation also means that if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, alter the manner in which they promote our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. Increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. In addition, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and result in higher bad debt expense.  

 Our use of third-party manufacturers to produce the majority of our toy products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business.  

 We own and operate two game and puzzle manufacturing facilities, one in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and the other in Waterford, Ireland. However, most of our toy products, in addition to certain other products, are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in China. Although our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary, if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations would be disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time, while alternative sources of supply were secured. This delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability, and harm our business.  

 Given that the majority of our manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers located in China, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in China and affecting the movement of people and products into and from China to our major markets, including North America and Europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in China, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. Factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the Chinese Yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in China, labor shortage and increases in labor costs in China, and difficulties in moving    

 14   
 products manufactured in China out of Asia and through the ports on the western coast of North America, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors, and natural disasters or health pandemics impacting China. Also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the United States or the European Union against products imported by us from, or the loss of “normal trade relations” status with, China, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the United States or Europe and harm our business. Additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third party manufacturer by government inspectors in China could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales.  

 We require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our Global Business Ethics Principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured by or for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. The Global Business Ethics Principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. In addition, Hasbro requires that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. Hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our Global Business Ethics Principles and other manufacturing requirements. In addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. Notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. Any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us.  

 Our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our employees.  

 Our employees are at the heart of all of our efforts. It is their skill, innovation and hard work which drive our success. We compete with many other potential employers in hiring and retaining our employees. Although we continuously seek to develop our employees, challenge them and compensate them fairly, there is no guarantee that we will be able to hire or retain the employees we need to succeed. Our loss of key employees, or our inability to hire talented employees we need, could significantly harm our business.  

 Part of our strategy for remaining relevant to children is to offer innovative children’s toy and game electronic products. The margins on many of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have a shorter lifespan than more traditional toys and games. As a result, sales of children’s toy and game electronic products may lower our overall operating margins and produce more volatility in our business.  

 As children have grown “older younger” and have otherwise become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as videogames, consumer electronics and social media, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant for these consumers. One initiative we have pursued to capture the interest of children is to offer innovative children’s electronic toys and games. Examples of such products in the last few years include our I-branded products such as I-DOG and I-CAT, and our FURREAL FRIENDS line of products, including BUTTERSCOTCH PONY and BISCUIT MY LOVIN’ PUP. In 2011 we are offering games based on our innovative LIVE platform and our most realistic member of the FURREAL FRIENDS line to date, COOKIE, MY PLAYFUL PUP. These products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase sales. However, children’s electronics, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks.  

 Our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. The ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. As a consequence, our margins on the sales of electronic products tend to be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our    

 15   
 costs. In addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics area is potentially even greater than for our other products. This pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games.  

 We rely on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. If we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed.  

 Due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. We currently have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2014, which provides for a $500,000 committed revolving credit facility. The credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. These restrictive covenants may limit our future actions, and financial, operating and strategic flexibility. In addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. Our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. Non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations.  

 In early 2011 we established a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, will allow us to issue up to $500,000 in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a further source of working capital funding and liquidity. We did not renew our accounts receivable securitization facility in January 2011 as we believe issuing commercial paper can be a more cost effective way for us to raise short-term funding in the future. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time.  

 We believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our cash on hand and access to existing credit facilities or our commercial paper program, are adequate for current and planned needs in 2011. However, our actual experience may differ from these expectations. Factors that may lead to a difference include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed herein, as well as future events that might have the effect of reducing our available cash balance, such as unexpected material operating losses or increased capital or other expenditures, or other future events that may reduce or eliminate the availability of external financial resources.  

 Not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. Although we believe the risk of nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial facilities is not significant, in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. In such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding.  

 We also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. Our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. The condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. The failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities.  

 As of December 26, 2010, we had $1,384,895 of total principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. If we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to    

 16   
 refinance such debt or face default. There is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all.  

 As a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. In addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business.  

 As a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the United States, under The Consumer Products Safety Act, The Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and The Flammable Fabrics Act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. In addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration or similar international authorities. While we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. Failure to comply could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. While costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually and in the aggregate in any given fiscal year, could be significant. In addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations.  

 Governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future, and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. In addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. Complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. Such increased costs or penalties could harm our business.  

 In addition to government regulation, products that have been or may be developed by us may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. There can be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. Any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 As a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition.  

 Our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. In addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings.  

 Our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, are of great value. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands. From time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property. In addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. We may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. Much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our balance sheet. However, as of December 26, 2010, we had $500,597 of acquired product and    

 17   
 licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet. Declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. Reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results.  

 We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization.  

 Acquisitions have been a significant part of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. In making acquisitions, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or the ability for us to leverage our entertainment offerings. In the case of our joint venture with Discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. However, we cannot be certain that the products of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, in the future will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products. In some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. However, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. Even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. In other cases, we acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. We cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will develop popular and profitable products or services in the future.  

 From time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense.  

 As is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes. Because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant expense for us and harm our business. The fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements.  

 We have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings.  

 Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. Goodwill is not amortized and is required to be periodically evaluated for impairment. At December 26, 2010, $474,813, or 11.6%, of our total assets represented goodwill. Declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill. Reductions in our net earnings caused by the write-down of goodwill or our investment in the joint venture could harm our results of operations.  

  Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments    

 None.  

  Item 2.    Properties