PART I   

  Item 1.    Business    

 General Development and Description of Business and Business Segments  

 Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, as used herein, “Hasbro”, the “Company”, “we”, or “us”, means Hasbro, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation organized on January 8, 1926, and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts.  

 Overview  

 We are a worldwide leader in children’s and family leisure time products and services with a broad portfolio of brands and entertainment properties. As a branded play, consumer-focused global company, Hasbro applies its brand blueprint to all of its operations. The brand blueprint revolves around the objective of continuously re-imagining, re-inventing, and re-igniting our brands through a wide range of innovative toys and games, entertainment offerings, including television programming and motion pictures, and licensed products, ranging from traditional to high-tech and digital, under well-known brand names such as TRANSFORMERS, PLAYSKOOL, NERF, LITTLEST PET SHOP, MY LITTLE PONY, G.I. JOE, TONKA, MILTON BRADLEY, PARKER BROTHERS, CRANIUM and WIZARDS OF THE COAST. Our offerings encompass a broad variety of games, including traditional board, card, hand-held electronic, trading card, role-playing and DVD games, as well as electronic learning aids and puzzles. Toy offerings include boys’ action figures, vehicles and playsets, girls’ toys, electronic toys, plush products, preschool toys and infant products, electronic interactive products, creative play and toy related specialty products. In addition, in order to further expand our brands, we license certain of our trademarks, characters and other property rights to third parties for use in connection with digital gaming, consumer promotions, and for the sale of non-competing toys and games and non-toy products. We also seek to expand awareness of our brands through immersive entertainment experiences, including television and movies. We own a 50% interest in a joint venture with Discovery Communications, Inc. (“Discovery”) that operates a television network in the United States, THE HUB, dedicated to high-quality children’s and family entertainment and educational programming. Hasbro Studios, our wholly-owned production studio, produces television programming primarily based on our brands for distribution on THE HUB in the United States and for distribution on other networks internationally.  

 Product Categories  

 We market our brands under the following primary product categories: (1) boys’ toys; (2) games and puzzles; (3) girls’ toys; and (4) preschool toys. Descriptions of these product categories are as follows:  

 Our boys’ toys category includes a wide range of core brand offerings such as TRANSFORMERS and G.I. JOE action figures and accessories, NERF sports and action products, as well as entertainment-based licensed products based on popular movie, television and comic book characters, such as STAR WARS and MARVEL toys and accessories. In the action figure area, a key part of our strategy focuses on the importance of reinforcing the storyline associated with these products through the use of media-based entertainment. In 2010, sales in our boys’ toys category also benefited from the major motion picture release of IRON MAN 2. In addition, STAR WARS and SPIDER-MAN products were each supported by animated television series. In 2011, the major motion pictures TRANSFORMERS: DARK OF THE MOON, based on our TRANSFORMERS property, and THOR and CAPTAIN AMERICA: THE FIRST AVENGER, from MARVEL, are expected to be released. In addition to marketing and developing action figures and accessories for traditional play, the Company also develops and markets products designed for collectors, which has been a key component of the success of the STAR WARS brand. Other key boys’ brands include TONKA trucks and playsets, BEYBLADE tops and accessories and SUPERSOAKER water squirting toys.  

 Our games and puzzles category includes several well known lines, including MILTON BRADLEY, PARKER BROTHERS, CRANIUM, AVALON HILL and WIZARDS OF THE COAST. These brand portfolios consist of a broad assortment of games for children, tweens, families and adults. Core game brands include    

 1   
 MONOPOLY, TRIVIAL PURSUIT, BATTLESHIP, GAME OF LIFE, SCRABBLE, CHUTES AND LADDERS, CANDY LAND, TROUBLE, MOUSETRAP, OPERATION, HUNGRY HUNGRY HIPPOS, CONNECT FOUR, TWISTER, YAHTZEE, CRANIUM, JENGA, SIMON, CLUE, SORRY!, RISK, BOGGLE, TRIVIAL PURSUIT, GUESS WHO? and BOP IT!, as well as a line of puzzles for children and adults, including the BIG BEN and CROXLEY lines of puzzles. WIZARDS OF THE COAST offers trading card and role-playing games, including MAGIC: THE GATHERING, DUEL MASTERS and DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. We seek to keep our game brands relevant through sustained marketing programs, such as FAMILY GAME NIGHT, as well as by offering consumers new ways to experience these brands.  

 In our girls’ toys category, we seek to provide a traditional and wholesome play experience. Girls’ toy brands include LITTLEST PET SHOP, MY LITTLE PONY, FURREAL FRIENDS, BABY ALIVE and STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. In 2010, the MY LITTLE PONY brand was supported through television programming on THE HUB beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010. This programming will continue in 2011. In addition, the LITTLEST PET SHOP brand will be supported by expanded digital gaming through our partnership with Electronic Arts, Inc. (“EA”).  

 Our preschool toys category encompasses a range of products for infants and preschoolers in the various stages of development. Our preschool products include a portfolio of core brands marketed primarily under the PLAYSKOOL trademark. The PLAYSKOOL line includes such well-known products as MR. POTATO HEAD, WEEBLES, SIT ’N SPIN and GLOWORM, along with a successful line of infant toys including STEP START WALK’ N RIDE, 2-IN-1 TUMMY TIME GYM and BUSY BALL POPPER. In addition, 2011 will be the first year of our agreement with Sesame Workshop that provides us with the licensed rights to produce products based on the SESAME STREET portfolio of characters, including ELMO, BIG BIRD, and COOKIE MONSTER, among others. Through our preschool marketing programs, we seek to provide consumer friendly information that assists parents in understanding the developmental milestones their children will encounter as well as the role each PLAYSKOOL product can play in helping children to achieve these developmental milestones. In addition, our preschool category also includes certain TONKA lines of trucks and interactive toys, including the CHUCK & FRIENDS line, and the PLAY-DOH brand. The CHUCK & FRIENDS line was supported by television programming on THE HUB in the fourth quarter of 2010, which will continue in 2011.  

 Segments  

 Organizationally, our three principal segments are U.S. and Canada, International and Entertainment and Licensing. The U.S. and Canada and International segments engage in the marketing and selling of various toy and game products as listed above. Our toy, game and puzzle products are developed by a global development group. We also have a global marketing function which establishes brand direction and assists the segments in establishing certain local marketing programs. The costs of these groups are allocated to the principal segments. Our U.S. and Canada segment covers the United States and Canada while the International segment primarily includes Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin and South America. The Entertainment and Licensing segment engages in the out-licensing of our trademarks, characters and other brand and intellectual property rights to third parties for non-competing products and also conducts our movie, television and online entertainment operations, including the operations of Hasbro Studios. In addition, our Global Operations segment is responsible for arranging product manufacturing and sourcing for the U.S. and Canada and International segments. Financial information with respect to our segments and geographic areas is included in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

 The Company’s strategy is focused around re-imagining, re-inventing, and re-igniting its existing brands, and imagining, inventing, and igniting new brands, globally through the development and marketing of innovative toy and game products, providing immersive entertainment experiences for our consumers, and expansion of our brands into other consumer products through a broad licensing program. The following is a discussion of each segment.   

 2   
 U.S. and Canada  

 This segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories in the United States and Canada. The U.S. and Canada segment’s strategy is based on promoting our brands through innovation and reinvention of toys and games. This is accomplished through introducing new initiatives driven by consumer and marketplace insights and leveraging opportunistic toy and game lines and licenses. This strategy leverages off of efforts to increase consumer awareness of the Company’s core brands through entertainment experiences such as motion pictures, television and publishing. Major 2010 brands and products included NERF, MARVEL products, STAR WARS products, LITTLEST PET SHOP, TRANSFORMERS, PLAYSKOOL, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, PLAY-DOH, FURREAL FRIENDS, and MONOPOLY.  

 International  

 The International segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories to retailers and wholesalers in most countries in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin and South America and through distributors in those countries where we have no direct presence. In addition to growing core brands and leveraging opportunistic toy lines and licenses, we seek to grow our international business by continuing to expand into Eastern Europe and emerging markets in Asia and Latin and South America. In recent years, we expanded our operations in Brazil, China, Russia, the Czech Republic, Romania and Korea. We will continue to expand operations in emerging markets in future years through the establishment of subsidiaries or increased involvement with our existing distributors. The Company began operations in Peru in 2010 and Colombia in 2011. Key international brands for 2010 included LITTLEST PET SHOP, NERF, TRANSFORMERS, MONOPOLY, FURREAL FRIENDS, PLAY-DOH, PLAYSKOOL, STAR WARS, and BEYBLADE.  

 Entertainment and Licensing  

 Our Entertainment and Licensing segment includes our lifestyle licensing, digital licensing, movie, television and online entertainment operations. Our lifestyle licensing category seeks to promote our brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to third parties for promotional and merchandising uses in businesses which do not compete directly with our own product offerings, such as apparel, publishing, home goods and electronics.  

 Our digital licensing category seeks to promote our brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties in the digital area, such as for applications on mobile phones, personal computers, and video game consoles. This is primarily done through our long-term strategic alliance with EA, which provides EA with the exclusive worldwide rights to create digital games for all of these major platforms based on most of our toy and game intellectual properties.  

 As noted above, we own a 50% interest in a joint venture with Discovery that operates a television network in the United States, THE HUB, which debuted in October 2010. THE HUB is dedicated to providing high-quality children’s and family entertainment and educational programming. To support our strategic objective of further developing our brands through television entertainment, we established a wholly-owned television studio, Hasbro Studios, that produces programming for distribution on THE HUB network in the U.S. and for international distribution on other networks. The programming is primarily based on our brands, but also includes third-party branded content. Hasbro Studios has a coordinated development process that aligns with THE HUB.  

 In addition to the above, we also seek to promote and leverage our brands through major motion pictures. In 2009, TRANSFORMERS: REVENGE OF THE FALLEN and G.I. JOE: THE RISE OF COBRA were released based on our brands. In July 2011, TRANSFORMERS: DARK OF THE MOON is expected to be released. In addition, we also have a long-term strategic relationship with Universal Pictures to produce at least three motion pictures based on certain of our core brands, with an option to produce two additional movies. The first movies under this relationship, BATTLESHIP and OUIJA, are expected to be released in 2012.  

 Promotion of our brands through major motion pictures and television programming provides our consumers with the ability to experience our brands in a different format which we believe can result in    

 3   
 increased product sales, royalty revenues, and overall brand awareness. To a lesser extent, we can also earn revenue from our participation in the financial results of motion pictures and related DVD releases and through the distribution of television programming. Revenue from product sales is a component of the U.S. and Canada and International segments, while royalty revenues, including revenues earned from movies and television programming, is included in the Entertainment and Licensing segment.  

 Global Operations  

 In our Global Operations segment, we manufacture and source production of substantially all of our toy and game products. The Company owns and operates manufacturing facilities in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland which predominantly produce games and puzzles. Sourcing of our other production is done through unrelated third party manufacturers in various Far East countries, principally China, using a Hong Kong based wholly-owned subsidiary operation for quality control and order coordination purposes. See “Manufacturing and Importing” below for more details concerning overseas manufacturing and sourcing.  

 Other Information  

 To further extend our range of products in the various segments of our business, we sell a portion of our toy and game products directly to retailers, on a direct import basis from the Far East. These sales are reflected in the revenue of the related segment where the customer resides.  

 Certain of our products are licensed to other companies for sale in selected countries where we do not otherwise have a direct business presence.  

 During 2010, net revenues generated from NERF products were approximately $414,000, which was 10.3% of our consolidated net revenues for that year. During 2009, net revenues generated from TRANSFORMERS products were approximately $592,000, which was 14.5% of our consolidated net revenues in that year. No other line of products constituted 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues in 2010 or 2009. No individual line of products accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues during our 2008 fiscal year.  

 Working Capital Requirements  

 Our working capital needs are primarily financed through cash generated from operations and, when necessary, proceeds from short-term borrowings. Our borrowings generally reach peak levels during the third or fourth quarter of each year. This corresponds to the time of year when our receivables also generally reach peak levels as part of the production and shipment of product in preparation for the holiday season. The strategy of retailers has generally been to make a higher percentage of their purchases of toy and game products within or close to the fourth quarter holiday consumer buying season, which includes Christmas. We expect that retailers will continue to follow this strategy. Our historical revenue pattern is one in which the second half of the year is more significant to our overall business than the first half. In 2010, the second half of the year accounted for approximately 65% of full year revenues with the third and fourth quarters accounting for 33% and 32% of full year revenues, respectively. In years where the Company has products tied to a major motion picture release, such as in 2009 with the mid-year releases of TRANSFORMERS: REVENGE OF THE FALLEN, G.I. JOE: THE RISE OF COBRA and X-MEN ORIGINS: WOLVERINE, this concentration of revenue late in the year may not be as pronounced due to the higher level of sales that occur around and just prior to the time of the motion picture theatrical release. In 2010, the Company had products tied to only one major motion picture release, IRON MAN 2, in May 2010.  

 The toy and game business is also characterized by customer order patterns which vary from year to year largely because of differences each year in the degree of consumer acceptance of product lines, product availability, marketing strategies and inventory policies of retailers, the dates of theatrical releases of major motion pictures for which we have product licenses, and changes in overall economic conditions. As a result, comparisons of our unshipped orders on any date with those at the same date in a prior year are not necessarily indicative of our sales for that year. Moreover, quick response inventory management practices    

 4   
 result in fewer orders being placed significantly in advance of shipment and more orders being placed for immediate delivery. Retailers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. Although the Company may receive orders from customers in advance, it is a general industry practice that these orders are subject to amendment or cancellation by customers prior to shipment and, as such, the Company does not believe that these unshipped orders, at any given date, are indicative of future sales. The amount of unshipped orders at any date in a given year can also be affected by programs that we may employ to incent customers to place orders and accept shipments early in the year. These programs follow general industry practices. The types of programs that we plan to employ to promote sales in 2011 are substantially the same as those we employed in 2010.  

 Historically, we commit to the majority of our inventory production and advertising and marketing expenditures for a given year prior to the peak third and fourth quarter retail selling season. Our accounts receivable increase during the third and fourth quarter as customers increase their purchases to meet expected consumer demand in the holiday season. Due to the concentrated timeframe of this selling period, payments for these accounts receivable are generally not due until later in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter of the subsequent year. The timing difference between expenses paid and revenues collected sometimes makes it necessary for us to borrow varying amounts during the year. During 2010, we utilized cash from our operations and borrowings under our revolving credit agreement as well as our uncommitted lines of credit to meet our cash flow requirements.  

 Royalties and Product Development  

 Our success is dependent on continuous innovation in our entertainment offerings, including both the continuing development of new brands and products and the redesign of existing products to drive consumer interest and market acceptance. Our toy, game and puzzle products are developed by a global development group and the costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, we spent $201,358, $181,195 and $191,424, respectively, on activities relating to the development, design and engineering of new products and their packaging (including products brought to us by independent designers) and on the improvement or modification of ongoing products. Much of this work is performed by our internal staff of designers, artists, model makers and engineers.  

 In addition to the design and development work performed by our own staff, we deal with a number of independent toy and game designers for whose designs and ideas we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Rights to such designs and ideas, when acquired by us, are usually exclusive and the agreements require us to pay the designer a royalty on our net sales of the item. These designer royalty agreements, in some cases, also provide for advance royalties and minimum guarantees.  

 We also produce a number of toys and games under trademarks and copyrights utilizing the names or likenesses of characters from movies, television shows and other entertainment media, for whose rights we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Licensing fees for these rights are generally paid as a royalty on our net sales of the item. Licenses for the use of characters are generally exclusive for specific products or product lines in specified territories. In many instances, advance royalties and minimum guarantees are required by these license agreements.  

 In 2010, 2009 and 2008, we incurred $248,570, $330,651 and $312,986, respectively, of royalty expense. A portion of this expense relates to amounts paid in prior years as royalty advances. Our royalty expenses in any given year may vary depending upon the timing of movie releases and other entertainment media.  

 Marketing and Sales  

 As we are focused on re-imagining, re-inventing and re-igniting our many brands on a consistent global basis, we have a global marketing function which establishes brand direction and messaging, as well as assists the selling entities in establishing certain local marketing programs. The costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. Our products are sold globally to a broad spectrum of customers, including wholesalers, distributors, chain stores, discount stores, mail order houses, catalog stores, department stores and other traditional retailers, large and small, as well as internet-based    

 5   
 “e-tailers.” Our own sales forces account for the majority of sales of our products. Remaining sales are generated by independent distributors who sell our products, for the most part, in areas of the world where we do not otherwise maintain a direct presence. While we have thousands of customers, there has been significant consolidation at the retail level over the last several years in our industry. As a result, the majority of our sales are to large chain stores, distributors and wholesalers. While the consolidation of customers provides us with certain benefits, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this consolidation also creates additional risks to our business associated with a major customer having financial difficulties or reducing its business with us. In addition, customer concentration may decrease the prices we are able to obtain for some of our products and reduce the number of products we would otherwise be able to bring to market. During 2010, net revenues from our three largest customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Target Corporation and Toys “R” Us, Inc., represented 23%, 12% and 11%, respectively, of consolidated net revenues, and sales to our top five customers, including Wal-Mart, Target and Toys “R” Us, Inc., accounted for approximately 50% of our consolidated net revenues. In the U.S. and Canada segment, approximately 71% of our net revenues were derived from these top three customers.  

 We advertise many of our toy and game products extensively on television. Generally our advertising highlights selected items in our various product groups in a manner designed to promote the sale of not only the selected item, but also other items we offer in those product groups as well. Hasbro Studios also produces television entertainment based on our brands which appears on THE HUB in the U.S. and on other major networks internationally. We introduce many of our new products to major customers during the year prior to the year of introduction of such products for retail sale. In addition, we showcase certain of our new products in New York City at the time of the American International Toy Fair in February, as well as at other international toy shows. In 2010 we spent $420,651 on advertising, promotion and marketing programs compared to $412,580 in 2009 and $454,612 in 2008.  

 Manufacturing and Importing  

 During 2010 substantially all of our products were manufactured in third party facilities in the Far East, primarily China, as well as in our two owned facilities located in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland.  

 Most of our products are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic, paper and cardboard, although certain products also make use of electronic components. All of these materials are readily available but may be subject to significant fluctuations in price. There are certain chemicals (including phthalates and BPA) that national, state and local governments have restricted or are seeking to restrict or limit the use of; however, we do not believe these restrictions have or will materially impact our business. We generally enter into agreements with suppliers at the beginning of a fiscal year that establish prices for that year. However, significant volatility in the prices of any of these materials may require renegotiation with our suppliers during the year. Our manufacturing processes and those of our vendors include injection molding, blow molding, spray painting, printing, box making and assembly. We purchase most of the components and accessories used in our toys and certain of the components used in our games, as well as some finished items, from manufacturers in the United States and in other countries. However, the countries of the Far East, and particularly China, constitute the largest manufacturing center of toys in the world and the substantial majority of our toy products are manufactured in China. The 1996 implementation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade reduced or eliminated customs duties on many of the products imported by us.  

 We believe that the manufacturing capacity of our third party manufacturers, together with our own facilities, as well as the supply of components, accessories and completed products which we purchase from unaffiliated manufacturers, are adequate to meet the anticipated demand in 2011 for our products. Our reliance on designated external sources of manufacturing could be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply for our products, should such changes be necessary or desirable. However, if we were to be prevented from obtaining products from a substantial number of our current Far East suppliers due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations and our ability to obtain products would be severely disrupted while alternative sources of product were secured. The imposition of trade sanctions by the United States or the European Union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of “normal    

 6   
 trade relations” status by, China, or other factors which increase the cost of manufacturing in China, such as higher Chinese labor costs or an appreciation in the Chinese Yuan, could significantly disrupt our operations and/or significantly increase the cost of the products which are manufactured in China and imported into other markets.  

 We purchase dies and molds from independent United States and international sources.  

 Competition  

 We are a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of games and toys and other entertainment offerings, but our business is highly competitive. We compete with several large toy and game companies in our product categories, as well as many smaller United States and international toy and game designers, manufacturers and marketers. We also compete with companies that offer branded entertainment focused on children and their families. Competition is based primarily on meeting consumer entertainment preferences and on the quality and play value of our products. To a lesser extent, competition is also based on product pricing. In the entertainment arena, Hasbro Studios and THE HUB compete with other children’s television networks and entertainment producers, such as NICKELODEON and CARTOON NETWORK, for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution  

 In addition to contending with competition from other toy and game and branded play entertainment companies, in our business we must deal with the phenomenon that many children have been moving away from traditional toys and games at a younger age and the array of products and entertainment offerings competing for the attention of children has expanded. We refer to this as “children getting older younger.” As a result, our products not only compete with the offerings of other toy and game manufacturers, but we must compete, particularly in meeting the demands of older children, with the entertainment offerings of many other companies, such as makers of video games and consumer electronic products.  

 The volatility in consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment and low barriers to entry continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups to develop products which compete with our toy and game offerings.  

 Employees  

 At December 26, 2010, we employed approximately 5,800 persons worldwide, approximately 3,100 of whom were located in the United States.  

 Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents  

 We seek to protect our products, for the most part, and in as many countries as practical, through registered trademarks, copyrights and patents to the extent that such protection is available, cost effective, and meaningful. The loss of such rights concerning any particular product is unlikely to result in significant harm to our business, although the loss of such protection for a number of significant items might have such an effect.  

 Government Regulation  

 Our toy and game products sold in the United States are subject to the provisions of The Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, (as amended, the “CPSA”), The Federal Hazardous Substances Act (the “FHSA”), The Flammable Fabrics Act (the “FFA”), and the regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, certain of our products, such as the mixes for our EASY-BAKE ovens, are also subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration.  

 The CPSA empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”) to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including the formulation and implementation of regulations and uniform safety standards. The CPSC has the authority to seek to declare a product “a banned hazardous substance” under the CPSA and to ban it from commerce. The CPSC can file an action to seize and condemn an “imminently hazardous consumer product” under the CPSA and may also order equitable remedies such as    

 7   
 recall, replacement, repair or refund for the product. The FHSA provides for the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles that are banned.  

 Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in many foreign markets including Canada, Australia and Europe. We utilize laboratories that employ testing and other procedures intended to maintain compliance with the CPSA, the FHSA, the FFA, other applicable domestic and international product standards, and our own standards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that our products are or will be hazard free. Any material product recall or other safety issue impacting our product could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, depending on the product and scope of the recall, and could negatively affect sales of our other products as well.  

 The Children’s Television Act of 1990 and the rules promulgated thereunder by the United States Federal Communications Commission, as well as the laws of certain foreign countries, also place limitations on television commercials during children’s programming.  

 We maintain programs to comply with various United States federal, state, local and international requirements relating to the environment, plant safety and other matters.  

 Financial Information about International and United States Operations  

 The information required by this item is included in note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report and is incorporated herein by reference.  

 Availability of Information  

 Our internet address is http://www.hasbro.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available free of charge on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

  Item 1A.    Risk Factors