Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

General Overview  

Overview  

We own, lease or manage approximately 24,000 towers for wireless communications, including the towers acquired in the Global Signal Merger (see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements). Revenues generated from our core site rental business represented 92% of our 2009 consolidated revenues. CCUSA, our largest operating segment, accounted for 95% of our 2009 site rental revenues, of which 79% were derived from the four largest wireless carriers in the U.S. Our site rental revenues are of a recurring nature, and typically, in excess of 90% have been contracted for in a prior year. See “Item 1. Business” for a further discussion of our business, including certain key terms of our lease agreements.  

The following are certain highlights of our business fundamentals, as further discussed in this Form 10-K, including in “Item 1. Business” and this MD&A:  

   •    potential growth resulting from wireless network expansion;  

   •    site rental revenues under long-term leases with contractual escalations;  

   •    revenues predominately from large wireless carriers;  

   •    majority of land under our towers under long-term control;  

   •    relatively fixed tower operating costs;  

   •    high incremental cash flows on organic revenue growth;  

   •    minimal sustaining capital expenditure requirements;  

   •    majority of our debt has contractual maturities longer than five years and has fixed rate coupons; and  

   •    significant cash flows from operations.  

Our long-term strategy is to increase stockholder value by translating anticipated future growth in our core site rental business into growth in our results of operations on a per share basis. The key elements of our strategy are (see “Item 1. Business” for further discussion):  

   •    to organically grow revenues and cash flows from our towers by co-locating additional tenants on our existing towers; and  

   •    to allocate capital efficiently (in no particular order: purchase our own common stock, enter into strategic tower acquisitions, selectively construct or acquire towers and distributed antenna systems, acquire the land on which towers are located, improve and structurally enhance our existing towers, and purchase or redeem our debt or preferred stock). See “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview.”  

Our long-term strategy is based on our belief that opportunities will be created by the expected continued growth in the wireless communications industry, which is predominately driven by the demand for wireless telephony and data services by consumers. As a result of such expected growth in the wireless communications industry, we believe that the demand for our towers will continue and result in organic growth of our revenues due to the co-location of additional tenants on our existing towers. We expect that new tenant additions or modifications of existing installations (collectively referred to as “tenant additions”) on our towers should result in significant incremental cash flow due to the relatively fixed costs to operate a tower (which tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation). Certain of the growth trends in the wireless communications industry are discussed in “Item 1. Business—Strategy.”  

The following is a discussion of certain recent events which may impact our business and our strategy or the wireless communications industry:  

   •    Consumer wireless voice and data service usage increased according to a CTIA U.S. wireless industry survey and other published reports (see “Item 1. Business—Strategy”).  

   •    The auctions of spectrum licenses in the FCC 700 MHz Band Auction No. 73 completed in March 2008 and the FCC Advanced Wireless Services Auction No. 66 have enabled next generation networks, and we expect that these spectrum auctions and future auctions should continue to enable next generation networks and may possibly enable one or more new entrants into the wireless communications industry and encourage more innovation.  

20  

Table of Contents 

   •    During 2009, the consolidation of wireless carriers continued with the acquisition of several smaller wireless carriers, most notably Verizon’s acquisition of Alltel Corp., a provider of wireless services to primarily rural markets, and the VHA joint venture in Australia between Vodafone and Hutchison. We do not expect lease cancellations from duplicate or overlapping networks as a result of these acquisitions to have a material adverse affect on our results.  

   •    In March 2009, we entered into an agreement to provide certain management, construction and acquisition services for a third party as to certain tower opportunities in the United States for a period of 24 months. The arrangement should permit us to maintain our construction and acquisition capacities and expertise and further our good relationships with certain major customers with limited capital commitments and expenditures as to such towers.  

   •    The challenging credit markets and economic weakness and uncertainty continued during 2009. However, the credit markets improved during 2009 from the fourth quarter of 2008, as seen in the decrease in credit spreads and improved liquidity in the market place. The economic outlook improved somewhat during 2009 but remains uncertain, and a pronounced or prolonged expansion of the economy is not assured. The following is a discussion of the potential impact on us from the credit markets and economy:  

   •    Historically, aggregate capital spending and the associated demand for our towers by wireless communication companies have been relatively stable over the last several years, although we did see reductions during prior economic downturns. Despite the economic weakness and uncertainty, demand has continued to grow for wireless services, which has historically been the predominate driver of demand for our towers over the long-term; and we expect that growth trend to continue over the foreseeable future. In addition, the effects of the economic weakness, including the impact of any customer defaults and bankruptcies, have not significantly impacted our existing recurring revenues. Consequently, we currently do not anticipate any material impact on our revenues over the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect site rental revenues for 2010 of between $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion, representing growth rates from 2009 of between 7% and 8%.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Results of Operations  

The following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with “Item 1. Business,” “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion of our results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts (see “Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and note 2 to our consolidated financial statements).  

21  

Table of Contents 

Comparison of Consolidated Results  

The following is a comparison of our 2009, 2008 and 2007 consolidated results of operations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Percentage is not meaningful  

 (a) Exclusive of depreciation, amortization and accretion shown separately.  

2009 and 2008. Our consolidated results of operations for 2009 and 2008, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 95% and 94% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 95% and 94% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 101% and 79% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Our operating segment results for 2009 and 2008, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see “Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments”).  

2008 and 2007. Our consolidated results of operations for 2008 and 2007, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 94% and 94% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 94% and 94% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 79% and 96% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Our operating segment results for 2008 and 2007, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see “Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments”).  

Comparison of Operating Segments  

Our reportable operating segments for 2009 are (1) CCUSA, primarily consisting of our U.S. tower operations, and (2) CCAL, our Australian tower operations. Our financial results are reported to management and the board of directors in this manner.  

22  

Table of Contents 

See note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for segment results and a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA (defined below).  

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate our operating performance and operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted (“Adjusted EBITDA”). Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). 

We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus restructuring charges (credits), asset write-down charges, acquisition and integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion, interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, gains (losses) on purchases and redemptions of debt, net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps, impairment of available-for-sale securities, interest and other income (expense), benefit (provision) for income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations and stock-based compensation expense (see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements). The calculation of Adjusted EBITDA for our operating segments is set forth in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP, and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is discussed further under “Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.”  

CCUSA—2009 and 2008. Net revenues for 2009 increased by $163.0 million, or 11%, from 2008. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in site rental revenues of $141.9 million, or 11%, for the same periods. This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio inclusive of straight-line accounting for certain lease escalations, straight-line accounting from renewal of customer leases, escalations net of the impact of straight-line accounting and cancellations of customer leases. See “Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. Although we continued to derive a large portion of our site rental revenues from the four largest wireless carriers in the U.S., a significant portion of our new tenant additions were from second tier and emerging wireless customers such as those offering flat rate calling plans and wireless data only technologies, such as Clearwire, a provider of wireless mobile internet services.  

Network services and other revenues for 2009 increased by $21.2 million, or 19%, from 2008, and the related gross margin increased by $10.1 million, or 28%, from 2008. The increase in network services and other revenues and the related gross margin reflects (1) the volatility and variable nature of the network services business as these revenues are not under long-term contract, (2) as well as an increase in our market share for installations on our towers driven partially by our focus on delivering customer service and our emphasis on execution and expanding market share in the service business.  

Site rental gross margins for 2009 increased by $141.3 million, or 16%, from 2008. The increase in the site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 11% increase in site rental revenues. Site rental gross margins as a percentage of site rental revenues for 2009 increased by three percentage points from 2008 to 70% primarily as a result of the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate a tower. The $141.3 million incremental margin represents 100% of the related increase in site rental revenues.  

General and administrative expenses for 2009 increased by $7.7 million, or 6%, from 2008. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges, which increased by $3.3 million from 2008 to 2009, as discussed further in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. In addition to stock-based compensation, the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the increase in salary and employee benefits, including an increase in the annual bonus accrual due to 2009 performance and other non-recurring expenses, partially offset by the realization of certain cost management initiatives. General and administrative expenses were 9% of net revenues for both 2009 and 2008. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of the co-location of additional tenants on our towers.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Adjusted EBITDA for 2009 increased by $147.0 million, or 18%, from 2008. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental business including the high incremental margin on the tenant additions.  

Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2009 increased by $3.2 million, or less than 1%, from 2008. The small increase is consistent with the movement in our fixed assets and intangible assets, which did not materially change between 2008 and 2009.  

During 2009, we repaid or purchased $2.3 billion of face value debt using cash from our issuances of debt in order to extend and ladder the maturities of our debt portfolio. As a result of purchasing and early retiring certain of our debt, we incurred a net loss of $91.1 million for 2009, inclusive of make whole payments. The increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs of $92.6 million, or 26%, in 2009 resulted predominately from our total debt increasing by $462.6 million and the impact of completing the refinancings at a higher weighted-average cost of debt. The refinancing of the 2006 mortgage loan did not qualify for hedge accounting as the actual refinancing was not consistent with that anticipated as part of hedge accounting, which resulted in discontinuing hedge accounting and reclassifying $132.9 million from accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to earnings during 2009. This loss was partially offset by gains on interest rate swaps that resulted from a decrease in the liability for those swaps not subject to hedge accounting. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings and the interest rate swaps see notes 7 and 8 to our consolidated financial statements, “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”  

In 2008, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $55.9 million related to a decline in the fair value of our investment in FiberTower that was deemed to be other-than-temporary. Any potential future write-downs are limited to the carrying value of our investment of $4.2 million as of December 31, 2009.  

Benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2009 was a benefit of $77.7 million compared to $106.6 million for 2008. The benefit for income taxes for 2009 is inclusive of a $20.6 million reversal of state tax valuation allowances. The effective tax rate for 2009 differs from the federal statutory rate due predominately to these state tax benefits. The effective tax rate for 2008 differs from the federal statutory rate predominately due to income tax benefits resulting from the completion of the IRS examination and a full valuation allowance on our unrealized capital losses from our investment in FiberTower. As of December 31, 2009, we are limited to recognizing approximately $15 million of future federal tax benefits since we currently expect that other additional benefits would have a full valuation allowance because our history of tax operating losses prevents us from determining that it is more likely than not that we may not realize such benefits. See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2009 was a loss of $115.4 million, inclusive of (1) net losses from repayments and purchases and early retirement of debt of $91.1 million and (2) net losses from interest rate swaps of $93.0 million. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2008 was a loss of $38.4 million, inclusive of (1) non-cash impairment charges of $55.9 million related to our investment in FiberTower, (2) losses on the change in the fair value of certain interest rate swaps of $37.9 million, and (3) tax benefits of $74.9 million resulting from the completion of an IRS examination. The increase in net loss was predominately due to (1) the previously mentioned charges and benefits, (2) the previously mentioned increase in interest expense of $92.6 million, and are partially offset by (3) growth in our core site rental business.  

CCAL—2009 and 2008. The increases and decreases between 2009 and 2008 are inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars to U.S dollars for 2009 was approximately 0.79 a decrease of 7% from approximately 0.85 for the same period in the prior year. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”  

Total net revenues for 2009 decreased by $4.1 million, or 5%, from 2008. Site rental revenues for 2009 decreased by $1.2 million, or 2%, from 2008. The decrease in the exchange rate negatively impacted net revenues and site rental revenues by approximately $6.5 million and $5.9 million, respectively, and accounted for a decline of 7% and 8%, respectively, for 2009 from 2008. Site rental revenues were also impacted by various other factors, including, in no particular order: new tenant additions on our towers, straight-line accounting from renewal of customer leases, escalations net of the impact of straight-line accounting and cancellations of customer leases. Net revenues were also impacted by a $2.9 million decrease in network services and other revenues. The decrease in network services and other revenues reflects the quarterly volatility and variable nature of the network services business as these revenues are not under long-term contract. See “Item 1. Business—The Company—CCAL.”  

24  

Table of Contents 

Adjusted EBITDA for 2009 decreased by $0.9 million, or 2%, from 2008. Adjusted EBITDA was negatively impacted by the exchange rate fluctuations. Site rental gross margins decreased by $1.1 million, or 2%, for 2009 from $54.7 million, while site rental gross margin as a percentage of site rental revenues was 70% for both periods.  

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2009 was net income of $1.1 million, compared to a net loss of $10.5 million for 2008. The change from net loss to net income was primarily driven by a decrease in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs of $9.7 million, the majority of which was due to a decrease in the variable interest rate of our intercompany debt.  

CCUSA—2008 and 2007. Net revenues for 2008 increased by $133.4 million, or 10%, from 2007. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in site rental revenues of $109.7 million, or 9%, for the same periods. This increase in site rental revenues was driven primarily by $82 million from new tenant additions across our entire portfolio inclusive of the impact of straight-line accounting for certain lease escalators. In addition to new tenant additions, our site rental revenues are influenced by various factors, including (in no particular order) (1) escalations net of the impact of straight line accounting, (2) impact of straight line accounting from renewal of customer leases, (3) new towers acquired or constructed, (4) a full year of revenues from our Spectrum lease, and (5) cancelation of customer leases. See “Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. We continued to derive a large portion of our site rental revenues and new tenant additions from the four largest carriers in the U.S. In addition to the four largest carriers, our 2008 net revenues and new tenant additions were also derived from second tier and emerging wireless customers such as those offering flat rate calling plans and wireless data technologies.  

Network services and other revenues for 2008 increased by $23.7 million, or 26%, from 2007. The increase in network services and other revenues was as a result of performing services on a larger portfolio of towers due to the Global Signal Merger. Global Signal did not operate a network services business, so the network services and other revenues performed on the Global Signal towers increased during 2007 and 2008 as we began marketing services for those towers. The network services business is typically non-recurring, and the volume of activity can vary significantly from period to period in relation to tenant additions on our towers.  

Site rental gross margins for 2008 increased by $98.3 million, or 12%, from 2007. The increase in site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 9% increase in site rental revenues primarily driven by tenant additions. Site rental gross margins as a percentage of site rental revenues for 2008 increased by two percentage points from 2007 to 67%, primarily as a result of the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate a tower. The $98.3 million incremental margin represents 90% of the related increase in site rental revenues.  

General and administrative expenses for 2008 increased by $7.3 million, or 6%, from 2007 but decreased to 9% of total net revenues from 10% of total net revenues over the same period. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges as discussed further in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in general and administrative expenses was due primarily to the increase in stock-based compensation. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of the co-location of additional tenants on our towers, as indicated by the decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues from 2007 to 2008.  

Adjusted EBITDA for 2008 increased by $102.9 million, or 14%, from 2007. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental business including the high incremental margin on the tenant additions.  

Acquisition and integration costs for 2008 were $2.5 million compared to $25.4 million in 2007. The decrease resulted from the completion of the integration of the Global Signal tower portfolio during the first quarter of 2008. See notes 3 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2008 decreased by $13.6 million, or 3%, from 2007. The decrease resulted from towers acquired from Global Signal with short useful lives (as defined by GAAP) that were fully depreciated at December 31, 2007. Our tower assets are recorded at cost (estimated replacement cost for those acquired) and are depreciated using a useful life that is defined as the period equal to the shorter of 20 years or the term of the underlying ground lease (including renewal options). See “Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.”  

25  

Table of Contents 

Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs for 2008 increased by $4.3 million, or 1%, from 2007. We made no material changes in our indebtedness during 2007 and 2008 other than the mortgage loans ($1.8 billion) that remained outstanding as obligations after the Global Signal Merger (on January 11, 2007) and the issuance of term loans ($650.0 million) in January and March 2007. Our weighted-average interest rate for 2008 was relatively consistent with 2007 as a result of virtually all of our debt having fixed rate coupons. See “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview.”  

In 2007 and 2008, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $75.6 million and $55.9 million, respectively, related to declines in the fair value of our investment in FiberTower that was deemed other-than-temporary. Any potential future write-downs are limited to the carrying value of our investment of $4.2 million as of December 31, 2008. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2008 was a benefit of $106.6 million compared to $95.3 million for 2007. The tax benefits for 2008 include tax benefits of $74.9 million resulting from the completion of the IRS examination of our U.S. federal tax return for 2004. The effective tax rate for 2008 differs from the federal statutory rate due predominately to income tax benefits resulting from the completion of the IRS examination and a full valuation allowance on our unrealized capital losses from our investment in FiberTower. See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2008 was a loss of $38.4 million, inclusive of (1) non-cash impairment charges of $55.9 million related to our investment in FiberTower, (2) losses on the change in fair value of certain interest rate swaps of $37.9 million, and (3) tax benefits of $74.9 million resulting from the completion of an IRS examination. Net loss for 2007 was $214.9 million, inclusive of (1) a non-cash impairment charge of $75.6 million related to our investment in FiberTower, (2) the asset write-down and restructuring charges related to Modeo totaling $60.7 million, and (3) acquisition and integration costs related to the Global Signal Merger of $25.4 million. The improvement in net loss was predominately due to the incremental gross margin in our site rental business of $98.3 million and the impact of the previously mentioned charges and benefits.  

CCAL—2008 and 2007. The increases and decreases between 2007 and 2008 are inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars to U.S dollars for 2008 was approximately 0.85, an increase of 2% from approximately 0.84 for the same period in the prior year. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”  

Total net revenues for 2008 increased by $7.6 million, or 9%, from 2007. The increase in total net revenues was influenced by various factors, including tenant additions on our towers and towers acquired after the third quarter of 2007. Network services and other revenues and tenant additions were influenced by the continued development of several 3G networks in Australia. See “Item 1. Business—The Company—CCAL.”  

Adjusted EBITDA for 2008 increased by $5.6 million, or 14%, from 2007. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the same factors that drove the increase in site rental revenues. More specifically, site rental gross margins increased by $5.0 million, or 10%, for 2008 from $49.7 million in the prior year. The $5.0 million incremental margin represents 78% of the related increase in site rental revenues.  

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2008 was a net loss of $10.5 million, an increase in net loss of $2.6 million from 2007. The increase in net loss was primarily driven by a $8.9 million increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs resulting predominately from an inter-company borrowing between segments, partially offset by the growth in the site rental business. The proceeds of the inter-company borrowing were primarily utilized to fund the capital return in May 2007 in order to increase the leverage of the CCAL business.  

Impact of Inflation. Other than the towers acquired from Global Signal, the majority of our towers were acquired between 1999 and 2001; tower assets and related depreciation expense do not reflect the impact of inflation occurring subsequent to the acquisition of these towers. The impact of inflation has not historically had a significant impact on our results of operations, including with respect to each of the years presented herein.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Overview  

General. Our site rental business is generally characterized by a stable cash flow stream generated by revenues under long-term contracts that should be recurring for the foreseeable future. Over the last five years, our cash from operations have exceeded our cash interest payments and sustaining capital expenditures and provided us with cash available for discretionary investments. We seek to allocate the cash produced by our operations in a manner that will enhance per share operating results. Cash flows from our site rental operations grew in 2009, and we expect that trend to continue over the long-term. Our cash interest expense is expected to increase in 2010 as a result of our debt issuances during 2009 and the beginning of 2010. Given the conditions in the credit markets, during 2009 we limited our discretionary investments, including a reduction in discretionary capital expenditures, in order to increase liquidity available to retire debt and settle certain of our interest rate swaps. During 2010, we expect to increase our investment of our available cash in discretionary investments such as those discussed in “Item 1. Business—Strategy.”  

Liquidity Position. The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and notes 7 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Pro forma for the refinancing of the 2005 tower revenue notes in January 2010 and the repayment and purchases of debt in January 2010. See “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities.”  

 (b) Exclusive of $218.5 million of restricted cash.  

 (c) As of January 31, 2010; availability at any point in time is subject to certain restrictions based on our then current leverage.  

In addition to cash on hand and undrawn revolver availability, we expect to generate between $575 million to $625 million of cash flows from operating activities over the next 12 months. As CCIC is a holding company, this cash flow from operations is generated by our operating subsidiaries.  

Recent Events. In light of the economic weakness and the current challenging credit markets, we have taken the following actions to manage our debt maturities and build liquidity with cash flows from operations.  

   •    During 2009, we limited our discretionary investments, including a reduction in discretionary capital expenditures, in order to increase liquidity available to retire debt and settle certain of our interest rate swaps. Of the $571.3 million of cash flows from operating activities that we generated during full year 2009, we used $173.5 million of such cash flow on capital expenditures. We currently expect to use at least $225 million in 2010 on capital expenditures as we increase our investment of available cash in discretionary investments.  

   •    During 2009 and the beginning of 2010, we issued $4.8 billion face value of debt in five transactions with stated interest rates ranging from 4.5% to 9% and final contractual maturities between 2015 and 2040, and we also increased the commitment to $400.0 million on our revolving credit agreement and extended its maturity until 2013. We received proceeds of $4.6 billion from these issuances net of discounts and fees. We repaid and repurchased an aggregate $4.4 billion face value of debt using $4.6 billion of cash resulting in a loss of $153.8 million. As a result of these refinancings, we effectively laddered the maturities of our outstanding indebtedness. In addition, as of December 31, 2009 after giving effect to the issuance of the 2010 tower revenue notes in January 2010 and the repayment and repurchase of debt, we increased our cash on hand by $328.2 million from the prior year. See “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities” for a discussion of these issuances and retirements.   

27  

Table of Contents 

As a result of these actions, approximately 70% of our debt outstanding as of January 31, 2010 was issued during 2009 and the beginning of 2010. Over the next twelve months we have no debt maturing other than nominal principal payments on amortizing debt. We plan on endeavoring to refinance the 2006 tower revenue notes on or before their anticipated repayment date in November 2011. Our ability to obtain borrowings that are securitized by tower cash flows and are at commercially reasonable terms will depend on various factors, such as our ability to generate cash flows on our existing towers, the state of the capital markets and other factors such as those in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” If we are unable to refinance our debt with similar instruments, we may explore other forms of financing, which may include other forms of debt or issuances of equity or equity related securities.  

Our tower revenue notes (totaling $3.2 billion) have final maturities ranging from 2035 to 2040 and anticipated repayment dates of November 2011 for the $1.55 billion 2006 tower revenue notes and between 2015 and 2020 for the 2010 tower revenue notes. If our tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates, then the interest rates increase by approximately 5% per annum (to approximately 11%) and substantially all of the cash flows of the subsidiaries issuing the tower revenue notes (“Excess Cash Flow,” as defined in the tower revenue notes indenture) will be used to repay principal. Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes was approximately $375 million for full year 2009, representing approximately two-thirds of our annualized consolidated cash flows from operations for 2009. Should we not repay our tower revenue notes by their anticipated repayment dates, we anticipate having sufficient liquidity to operate our existing business with no impact on our operations. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a tabular presentation of our debt maturities as of December 31, 2009, pro forma for the issuance of the 2010 tower revenue notes and the repayment and purchases of debt in January 2010.  

Long-term Strategy. We seek to maintain a capital structure that we believe drives long-term shareholder value and optimizes our weighted-average cost of capital. Over the long term, we target leverage of approximately five times Adjusted EBITDA and interest coverage of approximately three times Adjusted EBITDA, subject to various factors such as the availability and cost of capital and the potential long-term return on our discretionary investments. In furtherance of this long-term strategy, we contemplate funding our discretionary investments primarily with operating cash flows and, in certain instances, potential future debt financings and issuances of equity or equity related securities. As a result, anticipated future growth in site rental cash flows and corresponding increases in Adjusted EBITDA should reduce our leverage. Conversely, as our cash flows and Adjusted EBITDA grow we may seek to increase our debt in nominal dollars to maintain or achieve a certain targeted leverage.  

Summary Cash Flows Information  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities  

The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2009 from 2008 and 2007 was due primarily to the growth in our core site rental business. We expect net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 will increase from the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily as a result of our anticipated growth in our core site rental business, partially offset by higher cash interest expense. Changes in working capital, and particularly changes in deferred rental revenues, prepaid ground leases and accrued interest, can have a significant impact on our net cash from operating activities from period to period, largely due to the timing of payments and receipts.  

We pay minimal cash income taxes as a result of generating taxable losses and our usage of net operating loss carryforwards. Despite our history of taxable operating losses, we expect to generate taxable income in the future to ultimately realize our federal operating loss of $1.8 billion and begin to pay substantial federal income taxes in roughly seven years based on current projections.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Investing Activities  

Capital Expenditures. Our capital expenditures can be generally categorized as sustaining or discretionary. Sustaining capital expenditures include capitalized costs related to (1) maintenance activities on our towers, which are generally related to replacements and upgrades that extend the life of the asset, (2) vehicles, (3) information technology equipment, and (4) office equipment. Discretionary capital expenditures, which we also commonly refer to as “revenue-generating capital expenditures,” include (1) purchases of land under towers, (2) tower improvements in order to support additional site rentals, (3) the construction or purchase of towers, and (4) the construction of distributed antenna systems.   

A summary of our capital expenditures for the last three years is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As previously mentioned, during 2009 we reduced our capital expenditures from our 2008 levels in order to increase liquidity available to retire debt and settle certain of our interest rate swaps. These reductions included reductions of our purchases of land, construction and purchase of towers. Our decisions regarding discretionary capital expenditures are influenced by the availability and cost of capital and expected returns on alternative investments. The following is a discussion of certain aspects of our capital expenditures.  

   •    Other than sustaining capital expenditures, which we expect to be approximately $27 million to $32 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, our capital expenditures are discretionary and are made with respect to activities we believe exhibit sufficient potential to improve our long-term results of operations on a per share basis. We expect to invest at least $225 million of our cash flow on capital expenditures in 2010, with approximately $100 million of our capital expenditures targeted for our existing tower assets related to customer installations and related capacity improvement, which represents our highest yielding investment because it results in a recurring revenue stream from the related customer lease agreement.  

   •    We increased our purchases of land from 2007 to 2008 because of our focus on maintaining long-term control of our assets. While we reduced our purchases of land during 2009, we expect to retain long-term control of our towers by continuing to supplement land purchases with (1) extensions of the terms of ground leases for land under our towers and (2) acquisitions of land on installment, which requires substantially less liquidity than purchases of land. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we began to increase our purchases of land, and we expect to increase our land purchases in 2010 from our 2009 levels.  

Acquisition of Global Signal. See notes 3 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Financing Activities  

In light of the current challenges in the credit markets and consistent with our previously mentioned strategy to prudently manage liquidity, our financing activities for 2008 and 2009 included purchases of common stock at reduced levels from our past practices and a reduction in our relative leverage. However, we are still committed to our long-term strategy to allocate our capital to drive long-term stockholder value, which may include making discretionary investments such as purchases of our debt and common stock.  

29  

Table of Contents 

The following is a summary of the significant financing transactions completed in 2009 which are obligations of CCIC or are guaranteed by CCIC. As holding companies, unless they obtain other forms of financing, CCIC and CCOC require distributions or dividends from subsidiaries or the use of their cash on hand to fund their obligations. See also note 7 to our consolidated financial statements.  

9% Senior Notes. In January 2009, CCIC issued $900.0 million principal amount of 9% senior notes due 2015 in a public offering. The 9% senior notes bear interest at a rate of 9.0% per annum, payable semi-annually beginning on July 15, 2009. We received proceeds of $795.7 million, net of fees and discounts. We used a portion of the net proceeds to retire (1) a portion of our 2006 mortgage loan, (2) a portion of our 2004 mortgage loan, and (3) the amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility.  

7.125% Senior Notes. In October 2009, CCIC issued $500.0 million principal amount of 7.125% senior notes due 2019 in a public offering. The 7.125% senior notes bear interest at a rate of approximately 7.1% per annum, payable semi-annually beginning on May 1, 2010. We received proceeds of $490.0 million, net of fees and discounts. We used the net proceeds to purchase certain indebtedness during January 2010.  

Credit Agreement. In January 2007, CCOC entered into a credit agreement that provided a senior secured revolving credit facility that is guaranteed by CCIC. In December 2009, we amended the revolving credit facility to extend the maturity until September 2013 and increase the total revolving commitment to $400.0 million. As of December 31, 2009, the revolving credit facility was undrawn. Availability of the revolving credit facility at any time is determined by certain financial ratios. We may use the availability under the revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes, which may include the financing of capital expenditures, acquisitions, and purchases of our common or preferred stock. The revolving credit facility bears interest at prime rate or LIBOR plus a credit spread based on our consolidated leverage ratio.  

The following is a summary of significant financing transactions completed in 2009 and the beginning of 2010 that are obligations of subsidiaries of CCIC and which are not obligations of, or guaranteed by, CCIC. See also note 7 to our consolidated financial statements.  

7.75% Secured Notes. In April 2009, we issued $1.2 billion principal amount of 7.75% secured notes due 2017. The 7.75% secured notes are obligations of the subsidiaries that held a portion of the U.S. towers acquired in the Global Signal Merger and that were previously obligated under the 2006 mortgage loan. The 7.75% secured notes will be paid solely from the cash flows generated from operations of the towers held directly and indirectly by the issuers and the guarantors of such notes. These 7.75% secured notes bear interest at a rate of 7.75% per annum, payable quarterly beginning on August 1, 2009. We received proceeds of $1.15 billion, net of fees and discounts, from the 7.75% secured notes offering. As discussed herein, we have used the net proceeds, together with existing cash balances, to repay the portion of our 2006 mortgage loan not previously purchased. See also note 7 to our consolidated financial statements.  

2009 Securitized Notes. In July 2009, we issued $250.0 million principal amount of 2009 securitized notes, with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.1%, pursuant to an indenture. Such subsidiaries hold a portion of the U.S. towers acquired in the Global Signal Merger and that were previously obligated under the 2004 mortgage loan. We received proceeds of $244.6 million, net of fees, from the issuance of the 2009 securitized notes. We have used the net proceeds to repay the portion of our 2004 mortgage loan not previously purchased.  

The 2009 securitized notes consist of two tranches that amortize during the period beginning in January 2010 and ending in 2019 and the period beginning in 2019 and ending in 2029, respectively. The life of the 2009 securitized notes is substantially longer than the five year balloon maturities that we previously obtained in the securitization market, which is due in part to the longer remaining current term of our customer leases. The 2009 securitized debt was rated investment grade with tranche ratings of A2 and A3 from Moody’s and A- from Fitch.  

2010 Tower Revenue Notes. In January 2010, we issued $1.9 billion principal amount of 2010 tower revenue notes at a weighted-average rate of 5.75% pursuant to the indenture governing the existing tower revenue notes. We received proceeds of $1.9 billion, net of fees. We have used the net proceeds to repay the portion of our 2005 tower revenue notes not previously purchased.  

30  

Table of Contents 

The 2010 tower revenue notes consist of three series of $300.0 million, $350.0 million and $1.25 billion principal amount with anticipated repayments dates of 2015, 2017 and 2020, respectively. The weighted-average life of the 2010 tower revenue notes is substantially longer than the five year anticipated life of the prior tower revenue notes, which is due in part to the longer remaining current term of our customer leases. All three series of the 2010 tower revenue notes were rated investment grade (A2 from Moody’s and A from Fitch). Beginning with our anticipated refinancing of the 2006 tower revenue notes, we may separate the collateral underlying the tower revenue notes subject to certain provisions, including rating agency confirmation, which should increase flexibility with respect to any potential future refinancing of the 2006 tower revenue notes.  

Debt Purchases and Repayments. See notes 7 and 23 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our purchases and repayments of debt during 2009 and 2010, respectively, including the gains (losses) on purchases and repayments. In January 2010, we refinanced our 2005 tower revenue notes and purchased portions of our 9% senior notes, 7.75% secured notes and 2009 securitized notes, which resulted in an aggregate loss of $62.8 million.  

Common Stock Activity. As of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 we had 292.7 million, 288.5 million and 282.5 million common shares outstanding, respectively. We may purchase our common stock in the future as we seek to allocate capital to discretionary investments in a manner that will enhance per share results. See “Item 1. Business—Strategy.”  

Preferred Stock Dividends. We have the option to pay dividends on our 6.25% convertible preferred stock in cash or shares of common stock (valued at 95% of the current market value of the common stock, as defined) (see “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities”). Since 2005 we have elected to pay the dividends in cash and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. We are required to redeem all outstanding shares of our 6.25% convertible preferred stock on August 15, 2012 at a price equal to the liquidation preference plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. The shares of 6.25% convertible preferred stock are convertible, at the option of the holder, in whole or in part at any time, into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $36.875 per share of common stock. Under certain circumstances, we generally have the right to convert the 6.25% convertible preferred stock, in whole or in part, into 8.6 million shares of common stock if the price per share of our common stock equals or exceeds 120% of the conversion price or $44.25 for at least 20 trading days in any consecutive 30-day trading period.  

Interest Rate Swaps. We enter into interest rate swaps to manage and reduce our interest rate risk, including the use of interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in cash flows from changes in LIBOR on anticipated refinancing and outstanding variable rate debt. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our use of interest rate swaps, including the potential impact on our cash obligations and our earnings and information concerning interest rate swaps that no longer represent economic hedges.  

Restricted Cash. Pursuant to the indenture governing our operating companies’ debt, all rental cash receipts of the issuers of these debt instruments and their subsidiaries are restricted and held by an indenture trustee. The restricted cash in excess of required reserve balances is subsequently released to us in accordance with the terms of the indentures. See also notes 2 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Cash Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2009, (1) with the exception of interest rate swaps, which are as of January 31, 2010 and (2) after giving effect to the refinancing of the 2005 tower revenue notes and purchases of debt in January 2010. These contractual cash obligations relate primarily to our outstanding borrowings and ground lease obligations. The debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates on the tower revenue notes (see footnote (b)).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) The following items are in addition to the obligations disclosed in the above table:  

   •    We have a legal obligation to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements upon lease termination to remove towers or remediate the land upon which our towers reside. The cash obligations disclosed in the above table, as of December 31, 2009, are exclusive of estimated undiscounted future cash outlays for asset retirement obligations of approximately $1.8 billion. As of December 31, 2009, the net present value of these asset retirement obligations was approximately $58.8 million.  

   •    We are obligated under letters of credit to various landlords, insurers and other parties in connection with certain contingent retirement obligations under various tower land leases and certain other contractual obligations. The letters of credit were issued through one of CCUSA’s lenders in amounts aggregating $14.1 million and expire on various dates through August 2011.  

   •    We are obligated to pay or reimburse others for property taxes related to our towers. See note 17 to our consolidated financial statements.  

   •    We have unrecognized tax benefits of $3.2 million as of December 31, 2009. See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.  

 (b) If the tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates (ranging from 2011 to 2020) then the interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum and monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The tower revenue notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates and include the impact of an assumed 5% increase in interest rate that would occur following the anticipated repayment dates but exclude the impact of monthly principal payments that would commence using Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The full year 2009 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers was approximately $375 million, without consideration of the tower revenue notes purchased by CCIC, which represents approximately two-thirds of our consolidated cash flows from operations for 2009. Should the tower revenue notes not be retired by their respective anticipated repayment dates, we anticipate having sufficient liquidity to operate our existing business with no impact on our operations.  

 (c) Interest payments on the floating rate debt are based on estimated rates currently in effect.  

 (d) Amounts relate primarily to lease obligations for the land on which our towers reside, and are based on the assumption that payments will be made through the end of the period for which we hold renewal rights. See table below summarizing remaining terms to expiration.  

 (e) Our interest rate swaps require cash settlement to or from us in the future. Amounts represent cash settlement values as of January 31, 2010 based on the interest rate and yield curve in effect at that time. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”  

 (f) The dividends on the preferred stock can be paid in cash or common stock at our election. See note 12 to our consolidated financial statements.  

32  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2009 the remaining terms to expiration (including renewal terms at our option) of (1) the leases for the land on which approximately 17,600 of our towers reside and (2) agreements to manage approximately 700 towers owned by third parties where we had sublease agreements with the tower owner. In addition, we own in fee or have perpetual or long-term easements in the land on which approximately 5,700 of our towers reside (24% of total towers and 31% of our site rental gross margin as of December 31, 2009). See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) For the year ended December 31, 2009.  

 (b) Without consideration of the term of the customer lease agreement.  

Debt Covenants  

Our debt obligations contain certain financial covenants with which CCIC or our subsidiaries must maintain compliance in order to avoid the imposition of certain restrictions. Various of our debt obligations also place other restrictions on CCIC or our subsidiaries, including the ability to incur debt and liens, purchase our securities, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets, undertake transactions with affiliates, make other investments and pay dividends. We are permitted to issue additional indebtedness at CCIC and at our operating subsidiaries if no covenant violations occur (including the below mentioned restrictive covenants) and certain other requirements are met, which may include rating agency confirmations. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt covenants.  

Factors that are likely to determine our subsidiaries’ ability to comply with their current and future debt covenants include their (1) financial performance, (2) levels of indebtedness, and (3) debt service requirements. Given the current level of indebtedness of our subsidiaries, the primary risk of a debt covenant violation would be from a deterioration of a subsidiary’s financial performance. Should a covenant violation occur in the future as a result of a shortfall in financial performance (or for any other reason), we might be required to make principal payments earlier than currently scheduled and may not have access to additional borrowings under these facilities as long as the covenant violation continues. Any such early principal payments would have to be made from our existing cash balances or cash from operations. If our operating subsidiaries were to default on the debt, the trustee could seek to pursue the collateral securing the debt, in which case we could lose the towers and the future revenues associated with the towers. We currently have no financial covenant violations; and based upon our current expectations, we believe our operating results will be sufficient to comply with our debt covenants over the near and long-term. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

The financial maintenance covenants under our debt agreements, exclusive of cash trap reserve covenants, are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Pro forma for refinancing of the 2005 tower revenue notes in January 2010 and the repayment and purchases of debt in January 2010.  

 (b) For consolidated CCIC, ratio of Consolidated Total Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) for the most recent completed quarter multiplied by four; at inception the covenant requirement was less than 9.25 and stepped down thereafter.  

 (c) For consolidated CCIC, ratio of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for the most recent completed quarter multiplied by four to Consolidated Pro forma Debt Service (as defined in the credit agreement).  

33  

Table of Contents 

The following are the ratios applicable to the cash trap reserve covenants under our debt agreements that could require the cash flows generated by the issuers and their subsidiaries to be deposited in a reserve account and not released to us.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) The 2009 securitized notes and tower revenue notes also have amortization coverage thresholds of 1.15 and 1.45, respectively, which could result in applying current and future cash in the reserve account to prepay the debt with applicable prepayment consideration. For the 7.75% secured notes, if the Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is equal to or less than 1.20 and the aggregate amount of cash deposited in the reserve account exceeds $100.0 million, the issuing subsidiaries will be required to commence an offer to purchase the 7.75% secured notes using the cash in the reserve account.  

 (b) Ratio of Net Cash Flow to the amount of interest to be paid over the succeeding 12 months per the terms of the respective debt agreement.  

 (c) Pro forma for the refinancing of the 2005 tower revenue notes in January 2010 and the repayment and purchases of debt in January 2010.  

The 9% senior notes and 7.125% senior notes contain restrictive covenants with which we and our restricted subsidiaries must comply, subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications, including restrictions on our ability to incur incremental debt, issue preferred stock, guarantee debt, pay dividends, repurchase our capital stock, use assets as security in other transactions, sell assets or merge with or into other companies, and make certain investments. Certain of these covenants are not applicable if there is no event of default and if the ratio of our Consolidated Debt (as defined in the senior notes indenture) and to our Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flows (as defined in the senior notes indenture) is less than 7.0 to 1. As of January 31, 2010, such restrictions were not applicable because there has been no event of default and our ratio of Consolidated Debt to Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flows is less than 7.0 to 1; and based on our estimates of Consolidated Debt to Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flows and our current indebtedness, we do not expect such restrictions to be applicable. The 9% senior notes and 7.125% senior notes do not contain any financial maintenance covenants.  

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements  

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.  

Accounting and Reporting Matters  

Related Party Transactions  

See notes 13 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The following is a discussion of the accounting policies and estimates that we believe (1) are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and (2) require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The critical accounting policies and estimates for 2009 are not intended to be a comprehensive list of our accounting policies and estimates. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP, with no need for management’s judgment. In other cases, management is required to exercise judgment in the application of accounting principles with respect to particular transactions.  

Revenue Recognition. Site rental revenues are recognized on a monthly basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the relevant lease or agreement with terms generally ranging from five to 15 years. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, these revenues are recognized on a monthly basis, regardless of whether the payments from the customer are received in equal monthly amounts. If the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases) or rent free periods, the effect is recognized on a straight-line basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the agreement. When calculating our straight-line rental revenues, we consider all fixed elements of tenant leases escalation provisions, even if such escalation provisions also include a variable element. As a result of recognizing revenue on a straight-line basis, a portion of the revenue in a given  

34  

Table of Contents 

 period represents cash collected or contractually collectible in other periods. We record an allowance for uncollectible deferred site rental revenues for which increases or reversals of this allowance impact our site rental revenues. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.  

To a lesser extent, we provide network services, such as antenna installations and subsequent augmentation, network design and site selection, site acquisition services, site development and other services. Network services revenues are generally recognized using the completed contract method. Under the completed contract method, revenues and costs for a particular project are recognized in total at the completion date. When using the completed contract method of accounting for network services revenues, we must accurately determine the completion date for the project in order to record the revenues and costs in the proper period. For antenna installations, we consider the project complete when the customer can begin transmitting its signal through the antenna. Although we don’t typically incur losses on our network services because we typically enter into cost-plus profit contracts, we must also be able to estimate losses on uncompleted contracts, as such losses must be recognized as soon as they are known. We use the completed contract method for our network services projects, because our projects have a short duration (generally less than one year). We do not believe that our use of the completed contract method for network services projects produces financial position and operating results that differ substantially from the percentage-of-completion method.  

Some of our arrangements with our customers call for the performance of multiple revenue-generating activities and typically would include both site rental and network services. However, we do not always provide the antenna installation services on our towers as the customer may obtain a third party to complete these services. In cases where we do perform the antenna installation on our towers, we determine whether the multiple deliverables are to be accounted for separately or on a combined basis. In order to be accounted for separately, the undelivered items must (1) have stand-alone value to the customer, (2) have reliably determinable fair value on a separate basis, and (3) have delivery which is probable and under our control. In addition, the delivered item must have stand-alone value to the customer. Allocation of recognized revenue in such arrangements is based on the relative fair value of the separately delivered items. We have generally determined that it is appropriate to account for antenna installation activities separately from the customer’s subsequent site rentals.  

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Valuation. As of December 31, 2009, our largest asset was our telecommunications towers (representing approximately $4.1 billion, or 84%, of our $4.9 billion in net book value of property and equipment), followed by intangible assets and goodwill (approximately $2.4 billion and $2.0 billion in net book value, respectively, resulting predominately from the Global Signal Merger in 2007 and other acquisitions of large tower portfolios). The vast majority (approximately $2.3 billion net book value at December 31, 2009) of our identifiable intangibles relate to the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the nature and composition of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets.  

We allocate the purchase price of acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Any purchase price in excess of the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. In the case of the Global Signal Merger, we paid a purchase price that resulted in goodwill for two primary reasons (1) as a strategic measure to ensure that we maintained a tower portfolio of a comparable size to our largest competitor and (2) to deliver the needed control premium necessary to effect the transaction. The fair value of the vast majority of our assets and liabilities is determined by using either:  

   (1) estimates of replacement costs (for tangible fixed assets such as towers) or  

   (2) discounted cash flow valuation methods (for estimating identifiable intangibles such as site rental contracts and customer relationships and above-market and below-market leases).  

The purchase price allocation requires subjective estimates that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements including the amount of depreciation, amortization and accretion expense. The most important estimates for measurement of tangible fixed assets are (1) the cost to replace the asset with a new asset and (2) the economic useful life after giving effect to age, quality and condition. The most important estimates for measurement of intangible assets are (1) discount rates and (2) timing and amount of cash flows including estimates regarding customer renewals and cancelations. The determination of the final purchase price allocation could extend over several quarters resulting in the use of preliminary estimates that are subject to adjustment until finalized.  

35  

Table of Contents 

We record the fair value of obligations to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements, pursuant to our ground leases, to remove towers or remediate the land upon which our towers reside. In determining the fair value of these asset retirement obligations we must make several subjective and highly judgmental estimates such as those related to: (1) timing of cash flows, (2) future costs and (3) discount rates. See notes 2 and 17 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Useful Lives. We are required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets for purposes of determining depreciation, amortization and accretion expense that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Depreciation expense for our property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of our various classes of tangible assets. The substantial portion of our property and equipment represents the cost of our towers which is depreciated with an estimated useful life equal to the shorter of (1) 20 years or (2) the term of the lease (including optional renewals) for the land under the tower.  

The useful life of our intangible assets are estimated based on the period over which the intangible asset is expected to benefit us and gives consideration to the expected useful life of other assets to which the useful life may relate. Amortization expense for intangible assets is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of each of the intangible assets. The useful life of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets is limited by the maximum depreciable life of the tower (20 years), as a result of the interdependency of the tower and site rental contracts and customer relationships. In contrast, the site rental contracts and customer relationships are estimated to provide economic benefits for several decades because of the low rate of customer cancellations and high rate of renewals experienced to date. Thus, while site rental contracts and customer relationships are valued based upon the fair value of the site rental contracts and customer relationships which includes assumptions regarding both (1) customers’ exercise of optional renewals contained in the acquired contracts and (2) renewals of the acquired contracts past the contractual term including exercisable options, the site rental contracts are amortized over a period not to exceed 20 years as a result of the useful life being limited by the depreciable life of the tower.  

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Evaluation — Intangibles. We review the carrying values of property and equipment, intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We utilize the following dual grouping policy for purposes of determining the unit of account for testing impairment of the site rental contracts and customer relationships:  

   (1) we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups and  

   (2) we separately pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant customer or by customer grouping for individually insignificant customers, as appropriate.  

We first pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing, because we view towers as portfolios and a tower in a given portfolio and its related customer contracts are not largely independent of the other towers in the portfolio. We re-evaluate the appropriateness of the pooled groups at least annually. This use of grouping is based in part on (1) our limitations regarding disposal of towers, (2) the interdependencies of tower portfolios and (3) the manner in which towers are traded in the marketplace. The vast majority of our site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment are pooled into the U.S. owned tower group. Secondly, and separately, we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant customer or by customer grouping for individually insignificant customers, as appropriate, for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing because we associate the value ascribed to site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets to the underlying contracts and related customer relationships acquired.  

Our determination that an adverse event or change in circumstance has occurred that indicates that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable will generally involve (1) a deterioration in an asset’s financial performance compared to historical results, (2) a shortfall in an asset’s financial performance compared to forecasted results, or (3) changes affecting the utility of the asset. When considering the utility of our assets, we consider events that would meaningfully impact (1) our towers or (2) our customer relationships. For example, consideration would be  

36  

Table of Contents 

 given to events that impact (1) the structural integrity and longevity of our towers or (2) our ability to derive benefit from our existing customer relationships, including events such as bankruptcy or insolvency or loss of a significant customer. During 2009, there were no events or circumstances that caused us to review the carrying value of our intangible assets and property and equipment due in part to our assets performing consistently with or better than our expectations.  

If the sum of the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) from an asset, or portfolio group, significant customer or customer group (for individually insignificant customers), as applicable, is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. If the carrying value were to exceed the undiscounted cash flows, measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the fair value of the asset, which would generally be based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows. The most important estimates for such calculations of undiscounted cash flows are (1) the expected additions of new tenants and equipment on our towers and (2) estimates regarding customer cancelations and renewals of contracts. We could record impairments in the future if changes in long-term market conditions, expected future operating results or the utility of the assets results in changes for our impairment test calculations which negatively impact the fair value of our property and equipment and intangible assets, or if we changed our unit of account in the future.  

When grouping assets into pools for purposes of impairment evaluation, we also consider individual towers within a grouping for which we currently have no tenants. Approximately 2% of our total towers currently have no tenants. We continue to pay operating expenses on these towers in anticipation of obtaining tenants on these towers in the future, primarily because of the individual tower site demographics. In fact, we have current visibility to potential tenants on roughly two-thirds of these towers. To the extent we do not believe there are long-term prospects of obtaining tenants on an individual tower and all other possible avenues for recovering the carrying value of the tower have been exhausted, including sale of the tower, we appropriately reduce the carrying value of such towers.  

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Evaluation — Goodwill. All of our goodwill is recorded at CCUSA. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether adverse events or changes in circumstances have occurred. The annual test begins with goodwill and all intangible assets being allocated to applicable reporting units. Goodwill is then tested using a two-step process that begins with an estimation of fair value of the reporting unit using an income approach, which looks to the present value of expected future cash flows. The first step, commonly referred to as a “step one impairment test,” is a screen for potential impairment while the second step measures the amount of impairment if there is an indication from the first step that one exists. Our reporting units are the operating segments since segment management operates their respective tower portfolios as a single network. Our measurement of the fair value for goodwill is based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows of the reporting unit. The most important estimates for such calculations are (1) expected additions of new tenants and equipment on our towers, (2) estimates regarding customer cancellations and renewal of customer contracts, (3) the terminal multiple for our projected cash flows, (4) our weighted-average cost of capital, (5) and control premium.  

On October 1, 2009, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. The results of this test indicated that goodwill was not impaired at either of our reporting units. The fair value of our net assets as measured by our market capitalization was almost four times greater than the aggregate carrying amount of the reporting units as of December 31, 2009. Although we currently are not at risk of failing a step one impairment test, a future change in our reporting units (unit of account) or assumptions surrounding the most important estimates included in our impairment test could result in the recognition of an impairment.  

Interest Rate Swaps. We enter into interest rate swaps to manage and reduce our interest rate risk. The designation of our interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges requires judgment including with respect to the required assessment of the effectiveness of hedging relationships both at inception and on an on-going basis. We have designated certain of our interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges, which as of December 31, 2009 consists of certain interest rate swaps hedging the tower revenue notes. The effective portion of changes in fair value of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges is recorded in AOCI and is recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. In contrast, the change in fair value of interest rate swaps related to hedge ineffectiveness and for those not designated as cash flow hedges is immediately marked to market in earnings.  

37  

Table of Contents 

In assessing effectiveness of our forward-starting swaps both at inception and on an on-going basis, we must make several highly subjective and judgmental estimates such as assessing: (1) those related to the timing, amount, nature and probability of these future expected refinancings and (2) whether it is probable that the counterparties to our swaps will not default. The state of the current credit markets makes these estimates regarding future refinancings especially difficult. As of December 31, 2009, we have estimated that it is probable the expected refinancing of both the 2005 tower revenue notes and 2006 tower revenue notes will occur (see below regarding the January 2010 refinancing of the 2005 tower revenue notes). Following completion of the refinancing of the 2005 tower revenue notes, we may change our assessment of the future expected refinancing of the 2006 tower revenue notes, including a reduction in expected principal amount. As a result, we may prospectively discontinue hedge accounting or reclassify some or all of the unrealized loss from AOCI into earnings during 2010.  

Although the 2006 mortgage loan was refinanced, the issuance of the 7.75% secured notes in April 2009 did not qualify for hedge accounting as the actual refinancing was not consistent with that anticipated as part of hedge accounting. Since it was determined in April 2009 that the hedged transaction did not and would not occur, we discontinued hedge accounting and reclassified the entire loss ($132.9 million) from AOCI to earnings in the second quarter of 2009 for these specific interest rate swaps. The refinancing of the 2004 Mortgage Loan in 2009 and the 2005 tower revenue notes in 2010 qualified as the respective hedged forecasted transaction.  

Currently, we have elected to not early settle the forward-starting interest rate swaps that hedged the refinancing of the 2006 mortgage loan and the 2005 tower revenue notes although they have been refinanced at a fixed rate during 2009 and early 2010. As a result, these swaps are no longer economic hedges of our exposure to LIBOR on anticipated refinancing of our existing debt, and changes in the fair value of the swaps following the related refinancing are recorded in earnings until settlement. These non-economic hedges have a combined notional value of $3.5 billion inclusive of the 2005 tower revenue swaps de-designated in January 2010, and the combined settlement value is a liability of approximately $329.1 million as of January 31, 2010.  

The fair value of our interest rate swaps is determined using the income approach and is predominately based on observable interest rate yield curves and, to a lesser extent, the contract counterparty’s credit risk and our non-performance risk. The determination of the credit risk input is highly subjective and is primarily based on credit default swap spreads including indexes of comparable securities and management’s knowledge of current credit spreads in the debt market. As of December 31, 2009, a 50 basis point change in our credit spread would change the fair value of our interest rate swaps by less than one percent. Our credit valuation allowance at December 31, 2009 decreased by $61.2 million, or 82%, to $13.8 million from the prior year primarily due to a decrease in the credit risk assumption related to ourselves as well as a 49% decrease in the cash settlement value.  

As of December 31, 2009, our outstanding forward-starting interest rate swaps had a combined notional amount of $5.0 billion and totaled $314.4 million on a settlement basis. As of December 31, 2009, we have recorded $199.5 million, net of tax, in AOCI related to interest rate swaps designated as hedges. During 2009, we recorded $57.9 million, net of tax, in earnings related to interest rate swaps not designated as hedges and $2.5 million, net of tax, related to hedge ineffectiveness. In January 2010, we refinanced the 2005 tower revenue notes and expect to reclassify an aggregate loss of $155.3 million from AOCI into earnings over a five-year period.  

See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and notes 2, 8 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Deferred Income Taxes. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet related to events that impact our financial statements and tax returns in different periods. In order to compute these deferred tax balances, we first analyze the differences between the book basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities (referred to as “temporary differences”). These temporary differences are then multiplied by current tax rates to arrive at the balances for the deferred income tax assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided on deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realized. We recognize a tax position if it is more likely than not it will be sustained upon examination. The tax position is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.  

The change in our net deferred income tax balances during a period generally results in a deferred income tax provision or benefit in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). If our expectations about the future tax consequences of past events should prove to be inaccurate, the balances of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities could require significant adjustments in future periods. Such adjustments could cause a material effect on our results of operations for the period of the adjustment. See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Before giving effect to any valuation allowances, we are in an overall net deferred tax asset position that includes deferred tax assets of $75.1 million charged to AOCI resulting from our interest rate swap liabilities. We have recorded a valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets since it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realized. The valuation allowance in effect limits our ability to recognize tax benefits in our results of operations in the future. The amount, if any, of our valuation allowance is currently largely driven by our interest rate swap liability the fair value of which can vary based on movements in market interest rates.  

Impact of Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted and Those Adopted in 2009  

In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance that established accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. These amendments to the accounting standards clarify that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. These amendments to the accounting standards require consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. On January 1, 2009, we adopted these amendments. The adoption of these amendments did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. As a result of these amendments, we have prospectively recorded the income or losses applicable to the non-controlling interest of CCAL even though the noncontrolling stockholders’ share of the cumulative losses exceeds their equity interests.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued certain amendments that established principles and requirements for recognizing and measuring identifiable assets and goodwill acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in an acquisition, at their fair value as of the acquisition date. These amendments will change the accounting treatment of certain items, including that (1) acquisition and restructuring costs will be generally expensed as incurred, (2) noncontrolling interests will be valued at fair value at the acquisition date, (3) in certain circumstances acquired contingent liabilities will be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and subsequently measured at either the higher of such amount or the amount determined under existing guidance for non-acquired contingencies, and (4) changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date will affect provision for income taxes. The provisions of the amended accounting guidance are applied prospectively to our business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009. These amendments may have a material impact on business combinations after adoption. The impact from application of these amendments depends on the facts and circumstances of business combinations after adoption.  

See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of recently issued accounting standards and the related impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate the operating performance of our operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted, or Adjusted EBITDA. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA is set forth in “Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments.” Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and as used in the historical financial statements of Global Signal, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating income or loss, net income or loss, cash flows provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities or other income statement or cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP.  

We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because:  

   •    it is the primary measure used by our management to evaluate the economic productivity of our operations, including the efficiency of our employees and the profitability associated with their performance, the realization of contract revenue under our long-term contracts, our ability to obtain and maintain our customers and our ability to operate our site rental business effectively;  

   •    it is the primary measure of profit and loss used by management for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;  

   •    it is similar to the measure of current financial performance generally used in our debt covenant calculations;  

39  

Table of Contents 

   •    although specific definitions may vary, it is widely used in the tower sector to measure operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, amortization and accretion, which can vary depending upon accounting methods and the book value of assets; and  

   •    we believe it helps investors meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our operations from (1) period to period and (2) to our competitors by removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results.  

Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA:  

   •    with respect to compliance with our debt covenants, which require us to maintain certain financial ratios including, or similar to, Adjusted EBITDA;  

   •    as the primary measure of profit and loss for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;  

   •    as a performance goal in employee annual incentive compensation;  

   •    as a measurement of operating performance because it assists us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as it removes the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results;  

   •    in presentations to our board of directors to enable it to have the same measurement of operating performance used by management;  

   •    for planning purposes, including preparation of our annual operating budget;  

   •    as a valuation measure in strategic analyses in connection with the purchase and sale of assets; and  

   •    in determining self-imposed limits on our debt levels, including the evaluation of our leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio.  

There are material limitations to using a measure such as Adjusted EBITDA, including the difficulty associated with comparing results among more than one company, including our competitors, and the inability to analyze certain significant items, including depreciation and interest expense, that directly affect our net income or loss. Management compensates for these limitations by considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with their analysis of net income (loss).  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk