PART II

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis includes financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (U.S.), as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share discussed below. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP measures as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.

The following combined Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is separately filed by Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) and its subsidiaries Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), Duke Energy Progress, LLC (Duke Energy Progress), Duke Energy Florida, LLC (Duke Energy Florida), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), Duke Energy Indiana, LLC (Duke Energy Indiana) and Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. (Piedmont). However, none of the registrants make any representation as to information related solely to Duke Energy or the subsidiary registrants of Duke Energy other than itself. Subsequent to Duke Energy's acquisition of Piedmont on October 3, 2016, Piedmont is a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. The financial information for Duke Energy includes results of Piedmont subsequent to October 3, 2016. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information regarding the acquisition. 

DUKE ENERGY

Duke Energy is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Duke Energy operates in the U.S. primarily through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Piedmont. When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of the Subsidiary Registrants, which, along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Executive Overview

With our multiyear portfolio transition complete, we operated in 2017 as a domestic, regulated energy infrastructure business. Our long-term view provides a compelling vision to advance our strategy, leveraging scale and a focused portfolio to deliver a reliable dividend with 4 to 6 percent earnings per share (EPS) growth during our five year planning horizon. We have made progress advancing our long-term strategy to invest in our growth drivers of cleaner energy, grid modernization and natural gas infrastructure, while also improving customer satisfaction. 

Financial Results

(a)See Results of Operations below for Duke Energy’s definition of adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share as well as a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to net income attributable to Duke Energy and net income attributable to Duke Energy per diluted share.

Duke Energy's 2017 GAAP reported earnings were impacted by unfavorable weather and the absence of International Energy partially offset by growth in the electric and gas businesses, including the addition of a full year's earnings contribution from Piedmont and ongoing cost management efforts. See “Results of Operations” below for a detailed discussion of the consolidated results of operations, as well as a detailed discussion of financial results for each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.

39

PART II

2017 Areas of Focus and Accomplishments

Duke Energy advanced a number of important strategic initiatives to transform its energy future with a focus on customers, employees, operations and growth. The company has responded to an environment of changing customer demands by investing in electric and natural gas infrastructure that customers value and that provide an opportunity for sustainable growth. 

Portfolio Transition. On October 3, 2016, Duke Energy completed the acquisition of Piedmont, a North Carolina corporation primarily engaged in regulated natural gas distribution to residential, commercial, industrial and power generation customers in portions of North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee. In December 2016, Duke Energy completed the sale of its Latin American generation businesses in two separate transactions. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information regarding these transactions.

With the acquisition of Piedmont and the sale of International Energy, Duke Energy completed a multiyear portfolio transition. The Piedmont acquisition reflects the growing importance of natural gas to the future of the energy infrastructure within the company's service territory and throughout the U.S. and establishes a strategic platform for future growth in natural gas infrastructure. The growth opportunities reflected in our 10-year strategy are expected to increase the earnings contributions from the natural gas business from 8 percent to 15 percent. 

Operational Excellence. Duke Energy continues to focus on the safe and efficient operation of its generation fleet. During 2017, we delivered strong overall safety and environmental performance, with our key employee safety metric, total incident case rate, and our reportable environmental events both improving from last year. Our nuclear and fossil/hydro generation fleets demonstrated strong performance, exceeding their respective reliability targets.

Storm Response and System Restoration. Hurricane Irma, in October 2017, was one of the most powerful storms ever to hit the southern U.S. During Hurricane Irma, over 1.3 million customers in Florida were without power. Our restoration efforts involved coordination and communication with more than 12,000 line and fieldworkers and our team restored power to 99 percent of customers within eight days.

Customer Satisfaction. Higher J.D. Power residential customer satisfaction scores in 2017 reflect progress in the company's efforts to meet customers’ expectations. The work to improve customer satisfaction will continue, but all jurisdictions remain on track to make steady gains in the years ahead as Duke Energy continues to transform the customer experience through its Customer Connect Program.

Constructive Regulatory Outcomes. One of our long-term strategic goals is to achieve modernized regulatory constructs in all of our jurisdictions within 10 years. Modernized constructs provide a number of benefits, including improved earnings and cash flows through more timely recovery of investments, as well as stable pricing for customers. We filed several base rate cases during 2017 to recover a range of strategic investments, such as customer service technologies, coal ash costs in the Carolinas, smart meters, natural gas and solar generation. We continue to pursue additional legislative and regulatory outcomes, both in Washington and across our service territories, that make sense for our customers and investors.

Cost Management and Efficiencies. Duke Energy has a demonstrated track record of driving efficiencies and productivity, including merger integration and continuous improvement efforts. These efficiencies will help in Duke Energy's objective to keep overall customer rates below the national average, while moderating customer bill increases over time. We are on track to exceed targeted Piedmont merger cost synergies without significant disruptions to the business or culture, integrating the Piedmont and Midwest natural gas operations, and moving to a shared services model. We continue to leverage new technology and data analytics to drive additional efficiencies across the business.

Dividend Growth. In 2017, Duke Energy continued to grow the dividend payment to shareholders by approximately 4 percent. 2017 represented the 91st consecutive year Duke Energy paid a cash dividend on its common stock.

Duke Energy Objectives – 2018 and Beyond

Duke Energy will continue to deliver exceptional value to customers, be an integral part of the communities in which it does business, and provide attractive returns to investors. Duke Energy is committed to lead the way to cleaner, smarter energy solutions that customers value through a strategy focused on:

•Transformation of the customer experience to meet changing customer expectations through enhanced convenience, control and choice in energy supply and usage.

•Modernization of the electric grid, including smart meters, storm hardening, self-healing and targeted undergrounding to ensure the system is better prepared for severe weather and to improve the system's reliability and flexibility, as well as to provide better information and services for customers.

•Generation of cleaner energy through an increased amount of natural gas, renewables generation and the continued safe and reliable operation of nuclear plants.

•Expansion of natural gas infrastructure, from midstream gas pipelines to local distribution systems.

•Operational excellence through engagement with employees and being an industry leader in safety performance and efficient operations. 

•Stakeholder engagement to ensure the regulatory rules in the states in which Duke Energy operates benefit customers and allow Duke Energy to recover its significant investments in a timely manner while maintaining affordable rates.

•Engagement with regulatory commissions to determine the regulatory treatment of the impact of the Tax Act.

40

PART II

Primary objectives toward the implementation of this strategy include:

Growth Initiatives. Growth in the Electric Utilities and Infrastructure business is expected to be supported by the investment of significant capital in the electric transmission and distribution grid, and in cleaner, more efficient generation. Duke Energy expects to invest approximately $30 billion in Electric Utilities and Infrastructure growth projects over the next five years (2018-2022), continuing its efforts to generate cleaner energy. Duke Energy intends to work constructively with regulators to evaluate the current regulatory construct and seek modernized recovery solutions, such as riders, rate decoupling and multiyear rate plans, that benefit both customers and shareholders.

Investment projects at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure currently underway that will support growth initiatives include:

•Duke Energy Indiana's $1.4 billion grid modernization plan, which is aimed at improving reliability, including fewer outages and quicker restoration. 

•Significant investments in combined-cycle natural gas plants, including completing the $1.5 billion Citrus County plant in Florida, the $600 million W.S. Lee facility in South Carolina and the $900 million investment in the Western Carolinas Modernization Project. These investments will allow Duke Energy to replace older, less efficient coal units.

•Duke Energy expects to continue to advance other cleaner energy sources within its regulated electric jurisdictions, including hydro, wind, solar and combined heat and power projects, increasing the flexibility of the system and allowing Duke Energy to continue lowering carbon emissions. 

◦In North Carolina, HB 589 provides a timely cost recovery mechanism for any solar investments we are able to make through a competitive market process. 

◦In Florida, as part of the comprehensive multi-year rate settlement, we committed to invest in approximately 700 MW of solar capacity over the next five years and will be authorized to recover the cost of that investment through a single issue base rate increase. We also advanced our strategic priority of energy grid investment, establishing a multiyear recovery method for $1 billion of grid investments.

Duke Energy expects to invest around $7 billion growing its Gas Utilities and Infrastructure business over the next five years. Growth in Gas Utilities and Infrastructure will be focused on the following:

•With the acquisition of Piedmont, Duke Energy now operates natural gas distribution businesses across five states. The continued integration of Piedmont, as well as additional investments in the natural gas Local Distribution Company (LDC) system, will help maintain system integrity and expand natural gas distribution to new customers.

•Duke Energy will continue to grow its midstream pipeline business, underpinned by investments in the Atlantic Coast Pipeline, Sabal Trail and Constitution pipeline projects. These highly contracted pipelines will bring much needed, low-cost natural gas supplies to the eastern U.S., spurring economic growth and helping Duke Energy to grow its customer base in the Southeast.

For Commercial Renewables, Duke Energy will continue to pursue long-term contracted wind and solar projects that meet its return criteria.

Cost Management. Duke Energy has a demonstrated track record of driving efficiencies and productivity into the business, leveraging its scale through competitive procurement initiatives, deploying digital transformation and continuing to identify sustainable cost savings as an essential element in response to a transforming industry.

Execute on Coal Ash Management Strategy. Duke Energy will continue the company's compliance strategy with the North Carolina Coal Ash Management Act of 2014 (Coal Ash Act) and Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Duke Energy will update ash management plans to comply with the appropriate regulations and expand excavation and other compliance work at additional sites once plans and permits are approved.

Results of Operations

Non-GAAP Measures

Management evaluates financial performance in part based on non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS. These items represent income from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy, adjusted for the dollar and per share impact of special items. As discussed below, special items include certain charges and credits, which management believes are not indicative of Duke Energy's ongoing performance. Management believes the presentation of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them with an additional relevant comparison of Duke Energy’s performance across periods. 

Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for planning and forecasting, and for reporting financial results to the Duke Energy Board of Directors (Board of Directors), employees, stockholders, analysts and investors. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses. The most directly comparable GAAP measures for adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS are Net Income Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation (GAAP Reported Earnings) and Diluted EPS Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common stockholders (GAAP Reported EPS), respectively. 

Special items included in the periods presented include the following, which management believes do not reflect ongoing costs: 

•Costs to Achieve Mergers represents charges that result from strategic acquisitions.

•Cost Savings Initiatives represent severance charges related to company-wide initiatives, excluding merger integration, to standardize processes and systems, leverage technology and workforce optimization.

41

PART II

•Regulatory Settlements in 2017 represent charges related to the Levy nuclear project in Florida and the Mayo Zero Liquid Discharge and Sutton combustion turbine projects in North Carolina. The 2015 amount represents charges related to the IGCC Settlement.

•Commercial Renewables Impairments represent other-than-temporary, asset and goodwill impairments.

•Impacts of the Tax Act represent estimated amounts recognized related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.

•Ash Basin Settlement and Penalties represent charges related to Plea Agreements and settlement agreements with regulators and other governmental entities.

Adjusted earnings also include the operating results of the nonregulated Midwest generation business and Duke Energy Retail Sales (collectively, the Midwest Generation Disposal Group) and the International Disposal Group, which have been classified as discontinued operations. Management believes inclusion of the operating results of the Disposal Groups within adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS results in a better reflection of Duke Energy's financial performance during the period.

Duke Energy’s adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of another company because other companies may not calculate the measures in the same manner.

Reconciliation of GAAP Reported Amounts to Adjusted Amounts

The following table presents a reconciliation of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)For 2016, includes a loss on sale of the International Disposal Group. Represents the GAAP reported Loss from Discontinued Operations, less the International Disposal Group operating results, which are included in adjusted earnings.

(b)For 2015, includes the impact of a litigation reserve related to the Midwest Generation Disposal Group. Represents (i) GAAP reported Income from Discontinued Operations, less the International Disposal Group operating results and Midwest Generation Disposal Group operating results, which are included in adjusted earnings, and (ii) a state tax charge resulting from the completion of the sale of the Midwest Generation Disposal Group but not reported as discontinued operations.

(c)The Tax Act reduced the corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. As the tax change was enacted in 2017, Duke Energy is required to remeasure its existing deferred tax assets and liabilities at the lower rate. For Duke Energy's regulated operations, where the reduction in the net accumulated deferred income tax liability is expected to be returned to customers in future rates, the remeasurement has been deferred as a regulatory liability. 

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as compared to 2016

Duke Energy’s full-year 2017 GAAP Reported EPS was $4.36 compared to $3.11 for full-year 2016. In addition to the adjusted diluted EPS drivers discussed below, GAAP Reported EPS in 2017 was higher primarily due to a $0.14 benefit per share related to the Tax Act in 2017, lower costs to achieve the Piedmont merger and a loss on sale and impairments associated with the sale of the International Disposal Group in 2016, partially offset by charges of $0.14 related to regulatory settlements in Electric Utilities and Infrastructure.

As discussed, management also evaluates financial performance based on adjusted earnings. Duke Energy’s full-year 2017 adjusted diluted EPS was $4.57 compared to $4.69 for full-year 2016. The decrease in adjusted diluted EPS was primarily due to:

•Lower regulated electric revenues of $0.26 per share due to less favorable weather in the current year, including lost revenues related to Hurricane Irma;

•The prior year operating results from the International Disposal Group, which was sold in December 2016. The 2016 operating results included a benefit from the valuation of deferred income taxes. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Income Taxes," for additional information;

•Higher financing costs, primarily due to the Piedmont acquisition; and

42

PART II

•Higher depreciation and amortization expense at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure primarily due to higher depreciable base.

Partially offset by:

•Higher regulated electric revenues from increased pricing and riders driven by new rates in Duke Energy Progress South Carolina, base rate adjustments in Florida and energy efficiency rider revenues in North Carolina, as well as growth in weather-normal retail volumes;

•Lower operations, maintenance and other expenses, net of amounts recoverable in rates, at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure resulting from ongoing cost efficiency efforts and lower year-to-date storm costs than the prior year; and

•Additional earnings from incremental investments in Atlantic Coast Pipeline, LLC (ACP) and Sabal Trail natural gas pipelines.

Year Ended December 31, 2016, as compared to 2015

Duke Energy’s full-year 2016 GAAP Reported EPS was $3.11 compared to $4.05 for full-year 2015. GAAP Reported EPS was lower primarily due to a $0.93 loss on sale of the International business, which has been presented as discontinued operations. Duke Energy also recorded $0.40 of after-tax costs to achieve the Piedmont merger in 2016, including losses on interest rate swaps related to the acquisition financing. See Note 2, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information on the Piedmont and International transactions.

As discussed, management also evaluates financial performance based on adjusted earnings. Duke Energy’s full-year 2016 adjusted diluted EPS was $4.69 compared to $4.54 for full-year 2015. The variance in adjusted diluted EPS was primarily due to:

•More favorable weather in 2016 compared to 2015;

•Increased retail revenues from pricing and riders, including energy efficiency programs;

•Strong operations and maintenance cost control at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure; and

•Piedmont’s earnings contribution subsequent to the acquisition in October 2016.

Partially offset by:

•Higher storm costs at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure due to significant 2016 storms;

•Higher interest expense related to additional debt outstanding; and

•Higher depreciation and amortization expense at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure primarily due to higher depreciable base.

Segment Results

The remaining information presented in this discussion of results of operations is on a GAAP basis. Management evaluates segment performance based on segment income. Segment income is defined as income from continuing operations net of income attributable to noncontrolling interests. Segment income includes intercompany revenues and expenses that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Duke Energy's segment structure includes the following segments: Electric Utilities and Infrastructure, Gas Utilities and Infrastructure and Commercial Renewables. The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations is presented as Other. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments,” for additional information on Duke Energy’s segment structure.

Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act)

On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Act into law. Among other provisions, the Tax Act lowers the corporate federal income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, limits interest deductions outside of regulated utility operations, and eliminates bonus depreciation for regulated utilities, effective January 1, 2018. The Tax Act also could be amended or subject to technical correction, which could change the financial impacts that were recorded at December 31, 2017, or are expected to be recorded in future periods. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Income Taxes," for additional information on the Tax Act. The FERC and state utility commissions will determine the regulatory treatment of the impacts of the Tax Act for the Subsidiary Registrants. Duke Energy's segments’ future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted by the Tax Act, subsequent amendments or corrections, or the actions of the FERC, state utility commissions or credit rating agencies related to the Tax Act. Duke Energy is reviewing orders to address the rate treatment of the Tax Act by each state utility commission in which the Subsidiary Registrants operate. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information. Beginning in January 2018, the Subsidiary Registrants will defer the estimated ongoing impacts of the Tax Act that are expected to be returned to customers. See the Credit Ratings section below for additional information on the impact of the Tax Act on the Duke Energy Registrants' credit ratings. 

43

PART II

As a result of the Tax Act, Duke Energy revalued its existing deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2017, to account for the estimated future impact of lower corporate tax rates on these deferred tax amounts. For Duke Energy's regulated operations, where the net reduction in the net accumulated deferred income tax liability is expected to be returned to customers in future rates, the remeasurement has been deferred as a regulatory liability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information on the Tax Act's impact to the regulatory asset and liability accounts. The following table shows the expense (benefit) recorded on Duke Energy's Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Except where noted below, amounts are included within Income Tax Expense From Continuing Operations on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

(b)See Note 4 and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and "Income Taxes," for information about the Tax Act's impact on Duke Energy's Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

(c)Amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of net deferred tax liabilities that are excluded for ratemaking purposes related to abandoned or impaired assets and certain wholesale fixed rate contracts.

(d)Includes a $16 million expense recorded within Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

(e)Amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of net deferred tax liabilities that relates to equity method investments and certain wholesale fixed rate contracts.

(f)Amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of Foreign Tax Credits, federal net operating losses and non-regulated deferred tax assets.

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44

PART II

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016 

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's results were impacted by the Tax Act, growth from investments, lower operations and maintenance expense and higher weather-normal retail sales volumes, partially offset by less favorable weather, impairment charges due to regulatory settlements, increased depreciation and amortization, higher interest expense and higher property and other taxes. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $292 million decrease in retail sales, net of fuel revenue, due to less favorable weather in the current year; and

•a $235 million decrease in fuel revenues driven by lower retail sales volumes, lower fuel prices included in rates and changes in the generation mix.

Partially offset by:

•a $364 million increase in rider revenues including increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs, Duke Energy Florida’s nuclear asset securitization, Midwest transmission and distribution capital investments and Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) plant, as well as an increase in retail pricing due to base rate adjustments for Duke Energy Florida’s Osprey acquisition and Hines Chillers and the Duke Energy Progress South Carolina rate case;

•an $86 million increase in weather-normal sales volumes to customers; and

•a $26 million increase in other revenues primarily due to favorable transmission revenues.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $160 million increase in impairment charges primarily due to the write-off of remaining unrecovered Levy Nuclear Project costs in the current year at Duke Energy Florida and the disallowance from rate base of certain projects at the Mayo and Sutton plants in the current year at Duke Energy Progress related to the partial settlement in the North Carolina rate case;

•a $113 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service; and

•a $58 million increase in property and other taxes primarily due to higher property taxes.

Partially offset by:

•a $216 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily due to lower retail sales and changes in the generation mix; and 

•a $96 million decrease in operation, maintenance and other expense primarily due to lower plant outage, storm restoration and labor and benefits costs partially offset by higher operational costs that are recoverable in rates.

Interest Expense. The variance was due to higher debt outstanding in the current year and Duke Energy Florida's Crystal River 3 (CR3) regulatory asset debt return ending in June 2016 upon securitization.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pretax income and the impact of the Tax Act. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016 were 29.7 percent and 35.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act. See the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act section above for additional information on the Tax Act.

Year Ended December 31, 2016, as Compared to 2015 

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's higher earnings were primarily due to increased pricing and rider revenues, favorable weather, a prior year impairment charge associated with the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlement and an increase in wholesale power margins. These impacts were partially offset by increased depreciation and amortization expense, higher interest expense and higher operations and maintenance expense. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $768 million decrease in fuel revenues driven by lower fuel prices included in rates.

Partially offset by:

•a $414 million increase in rider revenues including increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs, the additional ownership interest in generating assets acquired from NCEMPA in the third quarter of 2015 and increased revenues related to Duke Energy Indiana’s clean coal equipment, and increased retail electric pricing primarily due to the expiration of the North Carolina cost of removal decrement rider; 

•a $101 million increase in retail sales, net of fuel revenue, due to favorable weather compared to the prior year; and

•a $76 million increase in wholesale power revenues primarily due to additional volumes and capacity charges for customers served under long-term contracts, including the NCEMPA wholesale contract.

45

PART II

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $713 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily due to lower natural gas and coal prices, and lower volumes of coal and oil, partially offset by higher volumes of natural gas; and

•an $85 million decrease in pretax impairment charges in the prior year primarily due to the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlement.

Partially offset by:

•a $162 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service, including the additional ownership interest in generating assets acquired from NCEMPA, as well as the expiration of the North Carolina cost of removal decrement rider; and

•a $154 million increase in operations and maintenance expense primarily due to higher environmental and operational costs that are recoverable in rates, increased employee benefit costs, and higher storm restoration costs, partially offset by lower costs due to effective cost control efforts.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was primarily driven by higher AFUDC equity.

Interest Expense. The variance was due to higher debt outstanding in the current year.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2016, and 2015 were 35.5 percent and 36.2 percent, respectively.

Matters Impacting Future Electric Utilities and Infrastructure Results

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

On May 18, 2016, the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ) issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the North Carolina Coal Ash Management Act of 2014 (Coal Ash Act) were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, may be reassessed in the future as low risk pursuant to legislation enacted on July 14, 2016. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's estimated asset retirement obligations (AROs) related to the closure of North Carolina ash impoundments are based upon the mandated closure method or a probability weighting of potential closure methods for the impoundments that may be reassessed to low risk. As the final risk ranking classifications in North Carolina are delineated, final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses and the closure method scope and remedial methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations," for additional information.

Duke Energy is a party to multiple lawsuits and could be subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits and potential fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

In the fourth quarter of 2016, Hurricane Matthew caused historic flooding, extensive damage and widespread power outages within the Duke Energy Progress service territory. Duke Energy Progress filed a petition with the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) requesting an accounting order to defer incremental operation and maintenance and capital costs incurred in response to Hurricane Matthew and other significant 2016 storms. The NCUC will address this request in Duke Energy Progress' currently pending rate case. A final order from the NCUC that disallows the deferral and future recovery of all or a significant portion of the incremental storm restoration costs incurred could result in an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Duke Energy has several rate cases pending. Duke Energy Kentucky filed an electric rate case with the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC) on September 1, 2017, to recover costs of capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems and to recover other incremental expenses since its previous rate case. Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress filed general rate cases with the NCUC on August 25, 2017, and June 1, 2017, respectively, to recover costs of complying with Coal Combustion Residuals (CCR) regulations and the Coal Ash Act, as well as costs of capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. In March 2017, Duke Energy Ohio filed an electric distribution base rate case application and supporting testimony with the Public Utility Commission of Ohio (PUCO). Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's earnings could be impacted adversely if these rate increases are delayed or denied by the KPSC, NCUC or PUCO. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information.

On August 29, 2017, Duke Energy Florida filed a 2017 Second Revised and Restated Settlement Agreement (2017 Settlement) with the FPSC. On November 20, 2017, the FPSC issued an order to approve the 2017 Settlement. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information about the 2017 Settlement. In accordance with the 2017 Settlement, Duke Energy Florida will not seek recovery of any costs associated with the ongoing Westinghouse contract litigation, which is currently being appealed. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information about the litigation. An unfavorable appeals ruling on that matter could have an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

46

PART II

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes throughput subsequent to Duke Energy's acquisition of Piedmont on October 3, 2016.

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure's higher results were primarily due to the inclusion of Piedmont's earnings in the current year as a result of Duke Energy's acquisition of Piedmont on October 3, 2016, as well as additional equity earnings from investments in the ACP and Sabal Trail pipelines.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•an $884 million increase in operating revenues due to the inclusion of Piedmont's operating revenues beginning in October 2016; and

•a $47 million increase in Piedmont's fourth quarter results due to colder weather, higher natural gas prices, Integrity Management Rider (IMR) rate adjustments, customer growth and new power generation customers.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $686 million increase in operating expenses due to the inclusion of Piedmont's operating expenses beginning in October 2016; and

•a $34 million increase in Piedmont's fourth quarter results primarily due to higher natural gas costs passed through to customers due to the higher price per dekatherm of natural gas.

Other Income and Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by higher equity earnings from pipeline investments.

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to the inclusion of Piedmont's interest expense beginning in October 2016.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income due to the inclusion of Piedmont's earnings beginning in October 2016, partially offset by prior period true-ups. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016 were 26.7 percent and 37.2 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the prior period true-ups and the impact of the Tax Act. See the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act section above for additional information on the Tax Act.

Year Ended December 31, 2016, as Compared to 2015 

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure's higher results were primarily due to the inclusion of Piedmont's earnings subsequent to the merger on October 3, 2016, and higher equity earnings from pipeline investments. Piedmont's earnings included in Gas Utilities and Infrastructure's results were $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2016.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

• a $398 million increase in operating revenues due to the inclusion of Piedmont's operating revenues beginning in October 2016,

47

PART II

Partially offset by:

•a $38 million decrease in fuel revenues driven by lower natural gas prices and decreased sales volumes for Midwest operations.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

• a $276 million increase in operating expenses due to the inclusion of Piedmont's operating expenses beginning in October 2016.

Partially offset by:

•a $38 million decrease in the cost of natural gas, primarily due to decreased volumes and lower natural gas prices for Midwest operations.

Other Income and Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by higher equity earnings from pipeline investments.

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to the inclusion of Piedmont's interest expenses beginning in October 2016.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2016, and 2015 were 37.2 percent and 37.6 percent, respectively.

Matters Impacting Future Gas Utilities and Infrastructure Results

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure has a 24 percent ownership interest in Constitution Pipeline Company, LLC (Constitution), a natural gas pipeline project slated to transport natural gas supplies to major northeastern markets. On April 22, 2016, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation denied Constitution’s application for a necessary water quality certification for the New York portion of the Constitution pipeline. Constitution has stopped construction and discontinued capitalization of future development costs until the project's uncertainty is resolved. As a result of the permitting delays and project uncertainty, total anticipated contributions by Duke Energy can no longer be reasonably estimated. To the extent the legal and regulatory proceedings have unfavorable outcomes, or if Constitution concludes that the project is not viable or does not go forward, an impairment charge of up to the recorded investment in the project, net of salvage value and any cash and working capital returned, may be recorded. Due to the FERC’s January 2018 ruling and the resulting increase in uncertainty, Duke Energy is evaluating the potential to recognize a pretax impairment charge on its investment in Constitution during the first quarter of 2018 of up to the current carrying amount of the investment, net of salvage value and any cash and working capital returned. With the project on hold, funding of project costs has ceased until resolution of legal actions. At December 31, 2017, Duke Energy's investment in Constitution was $81 million. See Note 4 and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," and "Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates," respectively, for additional information.

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure has a 47 percent ownership interest in ACP, which is building an approximately 600-mile interstate natural gas pipeline intended to transport diverse natural gas supplies into southeastern markets. Affected states (West Virginia, Virginia and North Carolina) have issued certain necessary permits; the project remains subject to other pending federal and state approvals, which will allow full construction activities to begin. In early 2018, the FERC issued series of Partial Notices to Proceed which authorized the project to begin limited construction-related activities along the pipeline route. The project has a targeted in-service date of late 2019. Due to delays in obtaining the required permits to commence construction and the conditions imposed upon the project by the permits, ACP's project manager estimates the project pipeline development costs have increased from a range of $5.0 billion to $5.5 billion to a range of $6.0 billion to $6.5 billion, excluding financing costs. Project construction activities, schedule and final costs are still subject to uncertainty due to potential additional permitting delays, construction productivity and other conditions and risks that could result in potential higher project costs and a potential delay in the targeted in-service date. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information.

Rapidly rising interest rates without timely or adequate updates to the regulated allowed return on equity or failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Piedmont merger, including cost savings and growth targets, could significantly impact the estimated fair value of reporting units in Gas Utilities and Infrastructure. In the event of a significant decline in the estimated fair value of the reporting units, goodwill impairment charges could be recorded. The carrying value of goodwill within Gas Utilities and Infrastructure was approximately $1,924 million at December 31, 2017.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

48

PART II

Commercial Renewables

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016

Commercial Renewables' higher earnings were primarily due to the Tax Act, partially offset by pretax impairment charges. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The decrease was primarily due to lower engineering, procurement and construction revenues from REC Solar, a California-based provider of solar installations acquired by Duke Energy in 2015.

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily due to $99 million in pretax impairment charges in the current year related to a wholly owned non-contracted wind project and other investments and higher expenses associated with new wind and solar projects, partially offset by lower operations and maintenance expense at REC Solar due to fewer projects under construction. See Notes 10 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Property, Plant and Equipment” and "Goodwill and Intangible Assets," respectively, for additional information.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was primarily due to a $71 million pretax impairment charge in the prior year related to certain equity method investments. For additional information, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates.”

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to new project financings and less capitalized interest due to fewer projects under construction.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act and higher production tax credits (PTCs), partially offset by lower investment tax credits (ITCs). See the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Year Ended December 31, 2016, as Compared to 2015 

Commercial Renewables' lower earnings were primarily due to an impairment charge related to certain equity method investments in wind projects, partially offset by new wind and solar generation placed in service and improved wind production. The following is a detailed discussion of variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was primarily due to a $135 million increase due to growth of REC Solar and a $66 million increase from new wind and solar generation placed in service and improved wind production.

Operating Expenses. The variance was primarily due to a $130 million increase in operating expenses due to growth of REC Solar and a $36 million increase in operating expenses due to new wind and solar generation placed in service.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was due to a $71 million pretax impairment charge related to certain equity method investments in wind projects. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates," for additional information.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pretax income and the impact of PTCs for the renewables portfolio.

49

PART II

Matters Impacting Future Commercial Renewables Results

Changes or variability in assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the Commercial Renewables reporting units for goodwill testing purposes, including but not limited to legislative actions related to tax credit extensions, long-term growth rates and discount rates could significantly impact the estimated fair value of the Commercial Renewables reporting units. In the event of a significant decline in the estimated fair value of the Commercial Renewables reporting units, goodwill or other asset impairment charges could be recorded. The carrying value of goodwill within Commercial Renewables was approximately $93 million at December 31, 2017.

Persistently low market pricing for wind resources, primarily in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas West market and the future expiration of tax incentives including ITCs and PTCs could result in adverse impacts to the future results of Commercial Renewables.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

Other

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016 

Other’s higher net expense was driven by the Tax Act, partially offset by prior year losses on forward-starting interest rate swaps and other costs related to the Piedmont acquisition, decreased severance expenses, prior year donations to the Duke Energy Foundation and insurance proceeds resulting from settlement of the shareholder litigation related to the Progress Energy merger. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily due to higher OVEC (Ohio Valley Electric Corporation) revenues and prior year customer credits related to Piedmont merger commitments. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

Operating Expenses. The decrease was primarily due to lower transaction and integration costs associated with the Piedmont acquisition, prior year severance expenses related to cost savings initiatives, donations to the Duke Energy Foundation in 2016 as well as prior year depreciation expense and other integration costs related to the Progress Energy merger. The Duke Energy Foundation is a nonprofit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected nonprofits and government subdivisions.

Other Income and Expenses. The increase was primarily driven by insurance proceeds resulting from settlement of the shareholder litigation related to the Progress Energy merger, higher earnings from the equity method investment in NMC and increased returns on investments that fund certain employee benefit obligations.

Interest Expense. The decrease was primarily due to prior year losses on forward-starting interest rate swaps related to Piedmont pre-acquisition financing, partially offset by higher interest costs on $3.75 billion of debt issued in August 2016 to fund the acquisition. For additional information see Notes 2, 6 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," "Debt and Credit Facilities" and "Derivatives and Hedging," respectively.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act and a decrease in pretax loss. See the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

50

PART II

Year Ended December 31, 2016, as Compared to 2015 

Other’s higher net expense was driven by costs related to the Piedmont acquisition, higher charitable donations and higher interest expense related to the Piedmont acquisition financing. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The decrease was primarily due to customer credits recorded related to Piedmont merger commitments. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily due to transaction and integration costs associated with the Piedmont acquisition and increased donations to the Duke Energy Foundation, partially offset by a decrease in severance accruals.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was primarily due to lower earnings from NMC, partially offset by higher returns on investments that support employee benefit obligations.

Interest Expense. The increase was primarily due to Piedmont acquisition financing, including bridge facility costs and losses on forward-starting interest rate swaps. For additional information see Notes 2 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions" and "Derivatives and Hedging," respectively.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax losses, partially offset by a decrease in the effective tax rate. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2016, and 2015 were 41.2 percent and 47.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the benefit from legal entity restructuring recorded in 2015.

Matters Impacting Future Other Results 

Included in Other is Duke Energy Ohio's 9 percent ownership interest in the Ohio Valley Electric Corporation (OVEC), which owns 2,256 MW of coal-fired generation capacity. As a counterparty to an inter-company power agreement (ICPA), Duke Energy Ohio has a contractual arrangement to receive entitlements to capacity and energy from OVEC’s power plants through June 2040 commensurate with its power participation ratio, which is equivalent to Duke Energy Ohio's ownership interest. Costs, including fuel, operating expenses, fixed costs, debt amortization and interest expense, are allocated to counterparties to the ICPA, including Duke Energy Ohio, based on their power participation ratio. The value of the ICPA is subject to variability due to fluctuations in power prices and changes in OVEC’s costs of business. Deterioration in the credit quality or bankruptcy of one or more parties to the ICPA could increase the costs of OVEC. In addition, certain proposed environmental rulemaking costs could result in future increased cost allocations. For information on Duke Energy's regulatory filings related to OVEC, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

The retired Beckjord generating station (Beckjord), a nonregulated facility retired during 2014, is not subject to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rule related to the disposal of CCR from electric utilities. However, if costs are incurred as a result of environmental regulations or to mitigate risk associated with on-site storage of coal ash, the costs could have an adverse impact on Other's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

(LOSS) INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, NET OF TAX

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016 

The variance was primarily driven by the prior year loss on the disposal of Duke Energy's Latin American generation business and an impairment charge related to certain assets in Central America, partially offset by a tax benefit related to historic unremitted foreign earnings and immaterial out of period tax adjustments unrelated to the Disposal Groups. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

Year Ended December 31, 2016, as Compared to 2015 

The variance was primarily driven by the 2016 loss on the disposal of Duke Energy's Latin American generation business and an impairment charge related to certain assets in Central America, partially offset by a tax benefit related to historic unremitted foreign earnings and immaterial out of period tax adjustments unrelated to the Disposal Groups. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

51

PART II

SUBSIDIARY REGISTRANTS

As a result of the Tax Act, the Subsidiary Registrants revalued their deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, as of December 31, 2017, to account for the future impact of lower corporate tax rates on these deferred tax amounts. For the Subsidiary Registrants regulated operations, where the reduction is expected to be returned to customers in future rates, the remeasurement has been deferred as a regulatory liability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" for additional information on the Tax Act's impact to the regulatory asset and liability accounts. The FERC and state utility commissions will determine the regulatory treatment of the impacts of the Tax Act for the Subsidiary Registrants. The Subsidiary Registrants’ future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted by the Tax Act, subsequent amendments or corrections, or the actions of the FERC, state utility commissions or credit rating agencies related to the Tax Act. The change in each Subsidiary Registrant's effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act, unless noted below. The following table shows the expense (benefit) recorded on the Subsidiary Registrant's Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2017, and the effective tax rate for each Subsidiary Registrant. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Except where noted below, amounts are included within Income Tax Expense From Continuing Operations or Income Tax Expense on the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income.

(b)See Notes 4 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and "Income Taxes," for information about the Tax Act's impact on Duke Energy's Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

(c)Amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities that are excluded for ratemaking purposes related to abandoned assets and certain wholesale fixed rate contracts.

(d)Amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities of certain wholesale fixed rate contracts.

(e)Amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets that are excluded for ratemaking purposes related to a prior transfer of certain electric generating assets.

(f)Amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities that are excluded for ratemaking purposes related to impaired assets. 

(g)Includes a $16 million expense recorded within Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates on the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income.

(h)The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act and lower North Carolina corporate tax rates.

52

PART II

DUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Carolinas is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Carolinas. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $179 million decrease in retail sales, net of fuel revenues, due to less favorable weather in the current year. 

Partially offset by:

•a $74 million increase in rider revenues and retail pricing primarily related to energy efficiency programs; 

•a $41 million increase in weather-normal sales volumes to retail customers, net of fuel revenues; 

•a $30 million increase in fuel revenues primarily due to changes in generation mix partially offset by lower retail sales; and

•a $7 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing and fuel, primarily due to additional volumes for customers served under long-term contracts.

53

PART II

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $145 million decrease in operations, maintenance and other expense primarily due to lower expenses at generating plants, lower costs associated with merger commitments related to the Piedmont acquisition in 2016, lower severance expenses, and lower employee benefit costs, partially offset by higher energy efficiency program costs.

Partially offset by:

•a $25 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily due to changes in generation mix, partially offset by lower retail sales; and

•a $15 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service, partially offset by lower amortization of certain regulatory assets.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in recognition of post in-service equity returns for projects that had been completed prior to being reflected in customer rates.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income and the impact of the Tax Act, offset by the impact of research credits and the manufacturing deduction. See the Subsidiary Registrants section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Matters Impacting Future Results

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Carolinas' financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, may be reassessed in the future as low risk pursuant to legislation enacted on July 14, 2016. Duke Energy Carolinas' estimated AROs related to the closure of North Carolina ash impoundments are based upon the mandated closure method or a probability weighting of potential closure methods for the impoundments that may be reassessed to low risk. As the final risk ranking classifications in North Carolina are delineated, final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses, and the closure method scope and remedial action methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Duke Energy Carolinas' financial position. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations," for additional information.

Duke Energy Carolinas is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Carolinas’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

Duke Energy Carolinas filed a general rate case on August 25, 2017, to recover costs of complying with CCR regulations and the Coal Ash Act, as well as costs of capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. Duke Energy Carolinas' earnings could be adversely impacted if the rate increase is delayed or denied by the NCUC.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

54

PART II

PROGRESS ENERGY

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Progress Energy is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $231 million decrease in fuel revenues primarily due to lower retail sales and changes in generation mix at Duke Energy Progress; and

•an $87 million decrease in retail sales, net of fuel revenues, due to less favorable weather in the current year.

Partially offset by:

•a $108 million increase in retail pricing primarily due to Duke Energy Florida’s base rate adjustment for the Osprey Acquisition and the completion of the Hines Energy Complex Chiller Uprate Project, as well as the Duke Energy Progress South Carolina rate case;

•a $76 million increase in rider revenues related to energy efficiency programs at Duke Energy Progress, as well as nuclear asset securitization beginning in July 2016 and extended uprate project revenues beginning in 2017 at Duke Energy Florida; and

•a $51 million increase in weather-normal sales volumes to retail customers.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $227 million decrease in fuel expense and purchased power primarily due to lower retail sales and changes in generation mix at Duke Energy Progress; and

•a $166 million decrease in operations, maintenance and other expense primarily due to lower plant outage, storm restoration and labor costs. 

55

PART II

Partially offset by:

•a $149 million increase in impairment charges primarily due to the write-off of remaining unrecovered Levy Nuclear Project costs in the current year at Duke Energy Florida and the disallowance from rate base of certain projects at the Mayo and Sutton plants in the current year at Duke Energy Progress related to the partial settlement in the North Carolina rate case; and

•a $72 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service, as well as nuclear regulatory asset amortization at Duke Energy Florida.

Interest Expense. The variance was due to higher debt outstanding, as well as interest charges on North Carolina fuel over collections at Duke Energy Progress and lower debt returns driven by the CR3 regulatory asset debt return ending in June 2016 upon securitization at Duke Energy Florida.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act. See the Subsidiary Registrants section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Matters Impacting Future Results

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Progress Energy’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, may be reassessed in the future as low risk pursuant to legislation enacted on July 14, 2016. Progress Energy's estimated AROs related to the closure of North Carolina ash impoundments are based upon the mandated closure method or a probability weighting of potential closure methods for the impoundments that may be reassessed to low risk. As the final risk ranking classifications in North Carolina are delineated, final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses, and the closure method scope and remedial action methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Progress Energy's financial position. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations," for additional information. 

Duke Energy Progress is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Progress Energy’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

In the fourth quarter of 2016, Hurricane Matthew caused historic flooding, extensive damage and widespread power outages within the Duke Energy Progress service territory. Duke Energy Progress filed a petition with the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) requesting an accounting order to defer incremental operation and maintenance and capital costs incurred in response to Hurricane Matthew and other significant 2016 storms. The NCUC will address this request in Duke Energy Progress' currently pending rate case. A final order from the NCUC that disallows the deferral and future recovery of all or a significant portion of the incremental storm restoration costs incurred could result in an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Duke Energy Progress filed a general rate case with the NCUC on June 1, 2017. Duke Energy Progress will seek to recover costs of complying with CCR regulations and the Coal Ash Act, as well as costs of capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. Progress Energy's earnings could be adversely impacted if the rate increase is delayed or denied by the NCUC.

On August 29, 2017, Duke Energy Florida filed the 2017 Settlement with the FPSC. On November 20, 2017, the FPSC issued an order to approve the 2017 Settlement. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information about the 2017 Settlement. In accordance with the 2017 Settlement, Duke Energy Florida will not seek recovery of any costs associated with the ongoing Westinghouse contract litigation, which is currently being appealed. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies” for additional information about the litigation. An unfavorable appeals ruling on that matter could have an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

56

PART II

DUKE ENERGY PROGRESS

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Progress is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Progress. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $238 million decrease in fuel revenues due to lower retail sales and changes in generation mix; and 

•a $37 million decrease in retail sales, net of fuel revenues, due to less favorable weather in the current year, partially offset by lower lost revenues related to hurricanes in the current year. 

Partially offset by:

•a $40 million increase in rider revenues primarily due to energy efficiency programs;

•a $38 million increase in retail sales due to the South Carolina rate case; and

•a $31 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of fuel, primarily due to higher peak demand.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $221 million decrease in fuel used in electric generation and purchased power primarily due to lower retail sales and changes in generation mix; and

57

PART II

•a $115 million decrease in operation, maintenance and other expense primarily due to lower nuclear outage costs and lower storm restoration costs. 

Partially offset by:

•a $22 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service; and

•an $18 million increase in impairment charges primarily due to the disallowance from rate base of certain projects at the Mayo and Sutton plants in the current year related to the partial settlement in the North Carolina rate case.

Interest Expense. The variance was due to higher debt outstanding, as well as interest charges on North Carolina fuel overcollections.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act and lower North Carolina corporate tax rates, partially offset by an increase in pretax net income. See the Subsidiary Registrants section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Matters Impacting Future Results

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Progress’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, may be reassessed in the future as low risk pursuant to legislation enacted on July 14, 2016. Duke Energy Progress' estimated AROs related to the closure of North Carolina ash impoundments are based upon the mandated closure method or a probability weighting of potential closure methods for the impoundments that may be reassessed to low risk. As the final risk ranking classifications in North Carolina are delineated, final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses, and the closure method scope and remedial action methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Duke Energy Progress' financial position. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations," for additional information. 

Duke Energy Progress is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Progress’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

In the fourth quarter of 2016, Hurricane Matthew caused historic flooding, extensive damage and widespread power outages within the Duke Energy Progress service territory. Duke Energy Progress filed a petition with the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) requesting an accounting order to defer incremental operation and maintenance and capital costs incurred in response to Hurricane Matthew and other significant 2016 storms. The NCUC will address this request in Duke Energy Progress' currently pending rate case. A final order from the NCUC that disallows the deferral and future recovery of all or a significant portion of the incremental storm restoration costs incurred could result in an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Duke Energy Progress filed a general rate case with the NCUC on June 1, 2017. Duke Energy Progress will seek to recover costs of complying with CCR regulations and the Coal Ash Act, as well as costs of capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. Duke Energy Progress' earnings could be adversely impacted if the rate increase is delayed or denied by the NCUC. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

58

PART II

DUKE ENERGY FLORIDA

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Florida is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Florida. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Wholesale power sales include both billed and unbilled sales. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $70 million increase in retail pricing primarily due to the base rate adjustment for the Osprey acquisition and the completion of the Hines Energy Complex Chiller Uprate Project; 

•a $45 million increase in weather-normal sales volumes to retail customers in the current year; and

•a $36 million increase in rider revenues primarily due to nuclear asset securitization beginning in July 2016 and extended power uprate project revenues beginning in 2017.

Partially offset by:

•a $50 million decrease in retail sales, net of fuel revenues, due to less favorable weather in the current year, including lost revenues related to Hurricane Irma; and

•a $34 million decrease in wholesale power revenues primarily due to contracts that expired in the prior year.

59

PART II

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $132 million increase in impairment charges primarily due to the write-off of remaining unrecovered Levy Nuclear Project costs in the current year; and

•a $51 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to nuclear regulatory asset amortization, as well as additional plant in service.

Partially offset by:

•a $47 million decrease in operations and maintenance expense primarily due to lower planned outage costs, lower severance expenses and lower employee benefit costs, partially offset by higher storm restoration costs in the current year.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was primarily driven by higher AFUDC equity.

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to higher debt outstanding and lower debt returns driven by the Crystal River Unit 3 regulatory asset debt return ending in June 2016 upon securitization.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act and lower pretax earnings. See the Subsidiary Registrants section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Matters Impacting Future Results

On August 29, 2017, Duke Energy Florida filed the 2017 Settlement with the FPSC. On November 20, 2017, the FPSC issued an order to approve the 2017 Settlement. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information about the 2017 Settlement. In accordance with the 2017 Settlement, Duke Energy Florida will not seek recovery of any costs associated with the ongoing Westinghouse contract litigation, which is currently being appealed. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies” for additional information about the litigation. An unfavorable appeals ruling on that matter could have an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

60

PART II

DUKE ENERGY OHIO

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Ohio is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales of electricity, dekatherms of natural gas delivered and average number of electric and natural gas customers for Duke Energy Ohio. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $69 million decrease in fuel revenues primarily due to lower electric fuel costs and a decrease in electric and natural gas sales volumes; and

•a $16 million decrease in electric retail sales, net of fuel revenues, due to less favorable weather in the current year.

61

PART II

Partially offset by:

•a $38 million increase in rider revenues primarily due to growth in energy efficiency programs and a rate increase for the distribution capital investment rider, partially offset by a decrease in the percentage of income payment plan rider due to a rate decrease;

•a $10 million increase in PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) transmission revenues;

•a $9 million increase in other revenues related to OVEC; and

•a $6 million increase in non-native sales for resale.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven by:

•a $66 million decrease in fuel expense, primarily due to lower sales volumes and lower electric fuel costs.

Partially offset by:

•a $28 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense due to additional plant in service and a true-up related to SmartGrid assets in the prior year;

•a $20 million increase in property and other taxes due to higher property taxes; and 

•a $12 million increase in operations, maintenance and other expense primarily due to higher energy efficiency program costs and higher transmission and distribution operations costs; partially offset by lower fossil/hydro operations costs due to timing of outage schedules.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act. See the Subsidiary Registrants section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax. The variance was primarily driven by a prior year income tax benefit resulting from immaterial out of period deferred tax liability adjustments related to the Midwest Generation Disposal Group. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

Matters Impacting Future Results

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash basins could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Ohio's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

Duke Energy Ohio’s nonregulated Beckjord station, a facility retired during 2014, is not subject to the EPA rule related to the disposal of CCR from electric utilities. However, if costs are incurred as a result of environmental regulations or to mitigate risk associated with on-site storage of coal ash at the facility, the costs could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Ohio's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Duke Energy Ohio has a 9 percent ownership interest in OVEC, which owns 2,256 MW of coal-fired generation capacity. As a counterparty to an ICPA, Duke Energy Ohio has a contractual arrangement to receive entitlements to capacity and energy from OVEC’s power plants through June 2040 commensurate with its power participation ratio, which is equivalent to Duke Energy Ohio’s ownership interest. Costs, including fuel, operating expenses, fixed costs, debt amortization and interest expense, are allocated to counterparties to the ICPA, including Duke Energy Ohio, based on their power participation ratio. The value of the ICPA is subject to variability due to fluctuations in power prices and changes in OVEC’s costs of business. Deterioration in the credit quality or bankruptcy of one or more parties to the ICPA could increase the costs of OVEC. In addition, certain proposed environmental rulemaking costs could result in future increased cost allocations. 

On March 2, 2017, Duke Energy Ohio filed an electric distribution base rate application with the PUCO to address recovery of electric distribution system capital investments and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. The application also includes requests to continue certain current riders and establish new riders related to LED Outdoor Lighting Service and regulatory mandates. Duke Energy Ohio's earnings could be adversely impacted if the rate case and requested riders are delayed or denied by the PUCO. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information.

On September 1, 2017, Duke Energy Kentucky filed a base rate case with the KPSC to recover costs of capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems and to recover other incremental expenses since its last rate case filed in 2006. The application also includes request to establish new riders. Duke Energy Kentucky’s earnings could be adversely impacted if the rate increase is delayed or denied by the KPSC.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

62

PART II

DUKE ENERGY INDIANA

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Indiana is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Indiana. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $67 million increase in rate rider revenues primarily related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant, the Transmission, Distribution and Storage System Improvement Charge (TDSIC) and energy efficiency programs; and

•a $48 million increase in fuel revenues primarily due to higher purchased power costs passed through to customers and higher financial transmission rights (FTR) revenues.

Partially offset by:

•a $13 million decrease in retail sales due to less favorable weather in the current year; and

•a $13 million decrease in wholesale power revenues, net of fuel, primarily due to a decrease in demand rates and contracts that expired in the current year.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $57 million increase in fuel used in electric generation and purchased power expenses, primarily due to higher purchased power volumes, partially offset by favorable fuel prices;

•an $18 million increase in property and other taxes primarily due to higher franchise taxes;

63

PART II

•a $10 million increase in operations, maintenance and other expense primarily due to growth in energy efficiency programs and higher transmission costs; and

•a $10 million increase in impairments and other charges primarily due to the impairment of certain metering equipment not recoverable in customer rates.

 Partially offset by:

•a $38 million decrease in depreciation and amortization primarily due to the recognition of certain asset retirement obligations in 2016 that were subsequently deferred in 2017, partially offset by new IGCC rates that result in a lower deferral amount and higher depreciation due to additional plant in service. 

Other Income and Expense. The variance was driven primarily by higher AFUDC equity.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act and an increase in pretax income. See the Subsidiary Registrants section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Matters Impacting Future Results

On April 17, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register a rule to regulate the disposal of CCR from electric utilities as solid waste. Duke Energy Indiana has interpreted the rule to identify the coal ash basin sites impacted and has assessed the amounts of coal ash subject to the rule and a method of compliance. Duke Energy Indiana's interpretation of the requirements of the CCR rule is subject to potential legal challenges and further regulatory approvals, which could result in additional ash basin closure requirements, higher costs of compliance and greater AROs. Additionally, Duke Energy Indiana has retired facilities that are not subject to the CCR rule. Duke Energy Indiana may incur costs at these facilities to comply with environmental regulations or to mitigate risks associated with on-site storage of coal ash. An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash basins could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Indiana's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

In August 2016, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) approved a settlement agreement between Duke Energy Indiana and multiple parties that resolves all disputes, claims and issues from the IURC proceedings related to post-commercial operating performance and recovery of ongoing operating and capital costs at the Edwardsport IGCC generating facility. The settlement agreement imposed a cost cap for retail recoverable operations and maintenance costs through 2017. An inability to manage future operating costs may result in unfavorable orders that could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Indiana's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

64

PART II

PIEDMONT

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the year ended December 31, 2017, Piedmont's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016, and the Form 10-QT as of December 31, 2016, for the transition period from November 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. The unaudited results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2016, was derived from data previously reported in the reports noted above.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Piedmont is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in dekatherms delivered and average number of customers. The percentages for all throughput deliveries represent billed and unbilled sales. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Piedmont's throughput was 468,259,777 dekatherms and 495,122,794 dekatherms for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016, respectively. Due to the margin decoupling mechanism in North Carolina and weather normalization adjustment (WNA) mechanisms in South Carolina and Tennessee, changes in throughput deliveries do not have a material impact on Piedmont's revenues or earnings. The margin decoupling mechanism adjusts for variations in residential and commercial use per customer, including those due to weather and conservation. The WNA mechanisms mostly offset the impact of weather on bills rendered, but do not ensure full recovery of approved margin during periods when winter weather is significantly warmer or colder than normal.

65

PART II

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as Compared to 2016 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $74 million increase due to higher natural gas costs passed through to customers primarily due to higher natural gas prices;

•a $34 million increase in revenues to residential and commercial customers, net of natural gas costs passed through to customers, primarily due to Integrity Management Rider (IMR) rate adjustments and customer growth. Increase is also due to new power generation customers, and is partially offset by wholesale marketing revenue; and

•a $10 million increase in revenues due to merger-related bill credits applied to customer bills in 2016. 

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven by:

•a $73 million increase in costs of natural gas primarily due to higher natural gas costs passed through to customers due to the higher price per dekatherm of natural gas;

•a $15 million increase in depreciation expense and property and franchise taxes due to additional plant in service; and

•a $7 million increase due to an impairment of software resulting from planned accounting system and process integration in 2018.

Partially offset by:

•a $38 million decrease in operations, maintenance and other related to acquisition and integration expenses recorded in the prior year from costs paid to outside parties, primarily financial and legal advisory, severance expenses, retention costs and acceleration of incentive plans, and an accrual for our commitment of charitable contributions and community support.

Other Income and Expense. The variance was driven by:

•a $132 million decrease in gain on sale of unconsolidated affiliates recorded in the prior year due to Piedmont’s sale of its 15 percent ownership interest in SouthStar Energy Services, LLC (SouthStar) on October 3, 2016; and

•a $32 million decrease in equity in (losses) earnings of unconsolidated affiliates primarily due to equity earnings from the investment in SouthStar in the prior year and the impacts of the Tax Act in the current year.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pretax income and the impact of the Tax Act. See the Subsidiary Registrants section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Matters Impacting Future Results

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for risks associated with the Tax Act.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Preparation of financial statements requires the application of accounting policies, judgments, assumptions and estimates that can significantly affect the reported results of operations, cash flows or the amounts of assets and liabilities recognized in the financial statements. Judgments made include the likelihood of success of particular projects, possible legal and regulatory challenges, earnings assumptions on pension and other benefit fund investments and anticipated recovery of costs, especially through regulated operations. 

Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with senior members of management on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Management believes the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods.

For further information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."

Regulated Operations Accounting

Substantially all of Duke Energy’s regulated operations meet the criteria for application of regulated operations accounting treatment. As a result, Duke Energy is required to record assets and liabilities that would not be recorded for nonregulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities are recorded when it is probable that a regulator will require Duke Energy to make refunds to customers or reduce rates to customers for previous collections or deferred revenue for costs that have yet to be incurred. 

Management continually assesses whether recorded regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in Duke Energy’s jurisdictions, litigation of rate orders, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, levels of actual return on equity compared to approved rates of return on equity and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, asset write-offs would be recognized in operating income. Additionally, regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, recognition of asset retirement costs and amortization of regulatory assets, or may disallow recovery of all or a portion of certain assets. For further information on regulatory assets and liabilities, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

66

PART II

As required by regulated operations accounting rules, significant judgment can be required to determine if an otherwise recognizable incurred cost, such as closure costs for ash impoundments, qualifies to be deferred for future recovery as a regulatory asset. Significant judgment can also be required to determine if revenues previously recognized are for entity specific costs that are no longer expected to be incurred or have not yet been incurred and are therefore a regulatory liability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for a more in-depth discussion of Regulatory Assets and Liabilities.

Regulated operations accounting rules also require recognition of a disallowance (also called "impairment") loss if it becomes probable that part of the cost of a plant under construction (or a recently completed or an abandoned plant) will be disallowed for ratemaking purposes and a reasonable estimate of the amount of the disallowance can be made. For example, if a cost cap is set for a plant still under construction, the amount of the disallowance is a result of a judgment as to the ultimate cost of the plant. Other disallowances can require judgments on allowed future rate recovery. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for a discussion of disallowances recorded.

When it becomes probable that regulated assets will be abandoned, the cost of the asset is removed from plant in service. The value that may be retained as a regulatory asset on the balance sheet for the abandoned property is dependent upon amounts that may be recovered through regulated rates, including any return. As such, an impairment charge, if any, could be partially or fully offset by the establishment of a regulatory asset if rate recovery is probable. The impairment for a disallowance of costs for regulated plants under construction, recently completed or abandoned is based on discounted cash flows.

For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters."

Goodwill Impairment Assessments

Duke Energy allocates goodwill to reporting units, which are either the Business Segments listed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements or one level below based on how the Business Segment is managed. Duke Energy is required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually and more frequently if it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying value. Duke Energy performs its annual impairment test as of August 31.

Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management's judgment, including determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of the income approach, which estimates fair value based on discounted cash flows, and the market approach, which estimates fair value based on market comparables within the utility and energy industries. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, future rates of return expected to result from ongoing rate regulation, utility sector market performance and transactions, forecasted earnings base, projected operating and capital cash flows for Duke Energy’s business and the fair value of debt.

Estimated future cash flows under the income approach are based to a large extent on Duke Energy’s internal business plan, and adjusted as appropriate for Duke Energy’s views of market participant assumptions. Duke Energy’s internal business plan reflects management’s assumptions related to customer usage and attrition based on internal data and economic data obtained from third-party sources, projected commodity pricing data and potential changes in environmental regulations. The business plan assumes the occurrence of certain events in the future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of returns on equity, anticipated earnings/returns related to significant future capital investments, continued recovery of cost of service, the renewal of certain contracts and the future of renewable tax credits. Management also makes assumptions regarding operation, maintenance and general and administrative costs based on the expected outcome of the aforementioned events. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory and economic stability, the ability to renew contracts and other factors, into its revenue and expense forecasts.

One of the most significant assumptions that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units under the income approach is the discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows. Management determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the after-tax cost of debt and cost of equity. A major component of the cost of equity is the current risk-free rate on 20-year U.S. Treasury bonds. In the 2017 impairment tests, Duke Energy considered implied WACCs for certain peer companies in determining the appropriate WACC rates to use in its analysis. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including factors such as regulation, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs were adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company specific risk premiums. The discount rates used for calculating the fair values as of August 31, 2017, for each of Duke Energy’s reporting units ranged from 5.3 percent to 6.7 percent. The underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time. Subsequent changes, particularly changes in the discount rates, authorized regulated rates of return or growth rates inherent in management’s estimates of future cash flows, could result in future impairment charges.

One of the most significant assumptions utilized in determining the fair value of reporting units under the market approach is implied market multiples for certain peer companies. Management selects comparable peers based on each peer’s primary business mix, operations, and market capitalization compared to the applicable reporting unit and calculates implied market multiples based on available projected earnings guidance and peer company market values as of August 31.

In December 2016, Duke Energy disposed of its International operations and no longer has goodwill associated with the International operations. For further information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions.”

Duke Energy primarily operates in environments that are rate-regulated. In such environments, revenue requirements are adjusted periodically by regulators based on factors including levels of costs, sales volumes and costs of capital. Accordingly, Duke Energy’s regulated utilities operate to some degree with a buffer from the direct effects, positive or negative, of significant swings in market or economic conditions. However, significant changes in discount rates over a prolonged period may have a material impact on the fair value of equity.

As of August 31, 2017, all of the reporting units’ estimated fair value of equity substantially exceeded the carrying value of equity, except for the Commercial Renewables reporting units. The goodwill at the Energy Management Solutions reporting unit of Commercial Renewables was evaluated for recoverability in 2017, and Duke Energy recorded impairment charges of $29 million.

67

PART II

The Commercial Renewables reporting units are impacted by a multitude of factors including, legislative actions related to tax credit extensions, long-term growth rate assumptions and discount rates. As of August 31, 2017, the Renewables reporting unit’s estimated fair value of equity exceeded the carrying value of equity by less than 10 percent. Management continues to monitor these assumptions for any indicators that the fair value of the reporting unit could be below the carrying value and will assess goodwill for impairment as appropriate.

For further information, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets."

Asset Retirement Obligations

AROs are recognized for legal obligations associated with the retirement of property, plant and equipment. Substantially all AROs are related to regulated operations. When recording an ARO, the present value of the projected liability is recognized in the period in which it is incurred, if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The liability is accreted over time. For operating plants, the present value of the liability is added to the cost of the associated asset and depreciated over the remaining life of the asset. For retired plants, the present value of the liability is recorded as a regulatory asset unless determined not to be recoverable.

The present value of the initial obligation and subsequent updates are based on discounted cash flows, which include estimates regarding timing of future cash flows, selection of discount rates and cost escalation rates, among other factors. These estimates are subject to change. Depreciation expense is adjusted prospectively for any changes to the carrying amount of the associated asset. The Duke Energy Registrants receive amounts to fund the cost of the ARO for regulated operations through a combination of regulated revenues and earnings on the nuclear decommissioning trust fund (NDTF). As a result, accretion expense and depreciation of the associated ARO asset are netted and deferred as a regulatory asset or liability.

Obligations for nuclear decommissioning are based on site-specific cost studies. Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress assume prompt dismantlement of the nuclear facilities after operations are ceased. Duke Energy Florida assumes Crystal River Unit 3 will be placed into a safe storage configuration until eventual dismantlement is completed by 2074. Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida also assume that spent fuel will be stored on-site until such time that it can be transferred to a yet to be built U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) facility.

Obligations for closure of ash basins are based upon discounted cash flows of estimated costs for site-specific plans, if known, or probability weightings of the potential closure methods if the closure plans are under development and multiple closure options are being considered and evaluated on a site-by-site basis.

For further information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations."

Long-Lived Asset Impairment Assessments, Excluding Regulated Operations, and Equity Method Investments

Property, plant and equipment, excluding plant held for sale, is stated at the lower of carrying value (historical cost less accumulated depreciation and previously recorded impairments) or fair value, if impaired. Duke Energy evaluates property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances (such as a significant change in cash flow projections or the determination that it is more likely than not that an asset or asset group will be sold) indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with their carrying value.

Performing an impairment evaluation involves a significant degree of estimation and judgment in areas such as identifying circumstances that indicate an impairment may exist, identifying and grouping affected assets and developing the undiscounted future cash flows. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized is determined by estimating the fair value and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. Additionally, determining fair value requires probability weighting future cash flows to reflect expectations about possible variations in their amounts or timing and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. 

When determining whether an asset or asset group has been impaired, management groups assets at the lowest level that has discrete cash flows. 

Investments in affiliates that are not controlled by Duke Energy, but over which it has significant influence, are accounted for using the equity method. Equity method investments are assessed for impairment when conditions exist that indicate that the fair value of the investment is less than book value. It the decline in value is considered to be other than temporary, the investment is written down to its estimated fair value, which establishes a new cost basis in the investment. 

For further information, see Notes 10 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Property, Plant and Equipment" and “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates,” respectively. 

Revenue Recognition 

Revenues on sales of electricity and natural gas are recognized when service is provided or the product is delivered. As retail meters are read, invoices are prepared and the invoice amount is generally recognized as "billed" revenue. Operating revenues also include "unbilled" electric and natural gas revenues for the amount of service provided or product delivered after the last meter reading prior to the end of the accounting period. Unbilled retail revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue per kilowatt-hour (kWh), per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) or per dekatherm (dth) for all customer classes to the number of estimated kWh, Mcf or dth delivered but not yet billed. 

For wholesale customers, the invoice amount is generally recognized as “billed” revenue. Although meters are read as of the end of the month, invoices have typically not been prepared. An estimate of the wholesale invoice is included in the reported amount of “unbilled” revenue. 

68

PART II

The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors that impact the change in the unbilled revenue receivable balance, including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns, customer mix, timing of rendering customer bills, meter readings schedules and the average price in effect for customer classes. 

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits

The calculation of pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and net pension and other post-retirement assets or liabilities require the use of assumptions and election of permissible accounting alternatives. Changes in assumptions can result in different expense and reported asset or liability amounts and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate applied to future projected benefit payments. Additionally, the health care cost trend rate assumption is critical to Duke Energy’s estimate of other post-retirement benefits.

Duke Energy elects to amortize net actuarial gain or loss amounts that are in excess of 10 percent of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the plan's projected benefit obligation, into net pension or other post-retirement benefit expense over the average remaining service period of active participants expected to benefit under the plan. If all or almost all of a plan's participants are inactive, the average remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants is used instead of average remaining service period. Prior service cost or credit, which represents an increase or decrease in a plan's pension benefit obligation resulting from plan amendment, is amortized on a straight-line basis over the average expected remaining service period of active participants expected to benefit under the plan. If all or almost all of a plan's participants are inactive, the average remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants is used instead of average remaining service period.

Duke Energy maintains and the Subsidiary Registrants participate in, qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans. Most participants in the qualified plans earn benefits calculated using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits based upon a percentage, which varies with age and years of service, of current eligible earnings and current interest credits. Certain plan participants earn benefits that use a final average earnings formula. Certain executives are participants in non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans. These qualified and non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit plans are closed to new participants.

Duke Energy provides some health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory basis. Certain employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans. 

Assets for Duke Energy’s qualified pension and other post-retirement benefits (401(h) accounts) are maintained in the Duke Energy Master Retirement Trust (Master Trust). Duke Energy also invests other post-retirement assets in Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association trusts. The investment objective is to achieve sufficient returns, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of promoting the security of plan benefits for participants. 

As of December 31, 2017, Duke Energy assumes pension and other post-retirement plan assets will generate a long-term rate of return of 6.50 percent. The expected long-term rate of return was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers, where applicable. The asset allocation targets were set after considering the investment objective and the risk profile. Equity securities are held for their higher expected returns. Debt securities are primarily held to hedge the qualified pension liability. Hedge funds, real estate and other global securities are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers on investments. 

In 2013, Duke Energy adopted a de-risking investment strategy for the Master Trust. As the funded status of the pension plans increase, the targeted allocation to fixed-income assets may be increased to better manage Duke Energy's pension liability and reduce funded status volatility. The asset allocation for the Master Trust is 63 percent fixed-income assets and 37 percent return-seeking assets. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to the targeted allocations when considered appropriate.

Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a rate of 3.6 percent as of December 31, 2017. Discount rates used to measure benefit plan obligations for financial reporting purposes reflect rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. As of December 31, 2017, Duke Energy determined its discount rate for U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a bond selection-settlement portfolio approach. This approach develops a discount rate by selecting a portfolio of high quality corporate bonds that generate sufficient cash flow to provide for projected benefit payments of the plan. The selected bond portfolio is derived from a universe of non-callable corporate bonds rated Aa quality or higher. After the bond portfolio is selected, a single interest rate is determined that equates the present value of the plan’s projected benefit payments discounted at this rate with the market value of the bonds selected.

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy’s pension and post-retirement plans will impact future pension expense and liabilities. Duke Energy cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2017 pretax pension expense, pretax other post-retirement expense, pension obligation and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 0.25 percent change in rates were to occur.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

69

PART II

Duke Energy’s other post-retirement plan uses a health care trend rate covering both pre- and post-age 65 retired plan participants, which is comprised of a medical care trend rate, which reflects the near- and long-term expectation of increases in medical costs, and a prescription drug trend rate, which reflects the near- and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug costs. As of December 31, 2017, the health care trend rate was 7 percent, trending down to 4.75 percent by 2024. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2017 pretax other post-retirement expense and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 1 percentage point change in the health care trend rate were to occur. These plans are closed to new hires. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For further information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans.”

Income Taxes

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return and other state returns. The Subsidiary Registrants entered into a tax-sharing agreement with Duke Energy. Income taxes recorded represent amounts the Subsidiary Registrants would incur as separate C-Corporations. Deferred income taxes have been provided for temporary differences between GAAP and tax bases of assets and liabilities because the differences create taxable or tax-deductible amounts for future periods. ITCs associated with regulated operations are deferred and amortized as a reduction of income tax expense over the estimated useful lives of the related properties.

Accumulated deferred income taxes are valued using the enacted tax rate expected to apply to taxable income in the periods in which the deferred tax asset or liability is expected to be settled or realized. In the event of a change in tax rates, deferred tax assets and liabilities are remeasured as of the enactment date of the new rate. To the extent that the change in the value of the deferred tax represents an obligation to customers, the impact of the remeasurement is deferred to a regulatory liability. Remaining impacts are recorded in income from continuing operations. Other impacts of the Tax Act have been recorded on a provisional basis, see Note 22, “Income Taxes,” for additional information. If Duke Energy's estimate of the tax effect of reversing temporary differences is not reflective of actual outcomes, is modified to reflect new developments or interpretations of the tax law, revised to incorporate new accounting principles, or changes in the expected timing or manner of the reversal then Duke Energy's results of operations could be impacted.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Sources and Uses of Cash

Duke Energy relies primarily upon cash flows from operations, debt and equity issuances and its existing cash and cash equivalents to fund its liquidity and capital requirements. Duke Energy’s capital requirements arise primarily from capital and investment expenditures, repaying long-term debt and paying dividends to shareholders. Duke Energy’s projected primary sources and uses for the next three fiscal years are included in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Excludes capital leases. Duke Energy projects a reduction in short-term debt in 2020.

(b)Subject to approval by the Board of Directors.

(c)Duke Energy projects an increase in short-term debt in 2018 and 2019.

(d)2018 equity issuances to be achieved through a public offering and through issuances under the Equity Distribution Agreement and the Dividend Reinvestment Program (DRIP). See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Common Stock" for additional information.

70

PART II

Among other provisions, the Tax Act lowers the corporate federal income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and eliminates bonus depreciation for regulated utilities. For Duke Energy’s regulated operations, the reduction in federal income taxes is expected to result in lower regulated customer rates. However, due to its existing NOL (Net operating loss) position and other tax credits, Duke Energy does not expect to be a significant federal cash tax payer through at least 2022. As a result, any reduction in customer rates could cause a material reduction in consolidated cash flows from operations in the short-term. Over time, the reduction in deferred tax liabilities resulting from the Tax Act will increase Duke Energy’s regulated rate base investments and customer rates. See the Credit Ratings section below for additional information on the impact of the Tax Act on the Duke Energy Registrants' credit ratings. Impacts of Tax Act to Duke Energy’s cash flows and credit metrics are subject to the regulatory actions of its state commissions and the FERC, which are currently pending. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information. 

In order to strengthen its balance sheet and credit metrics and bolster cash flows, Duke Energy plans to issue $2 billion of common stock equity during 2018, including its previous plan to issue $350 million annually through its DRIP beginning in 2018, as well as reduce its capital expenditures during 2018-2022 by approximately $1 billion.

The Subsidiary Registrants generally maintain minimal cash balances and use short-term borrowings to meet their working capital needs and other cash requirements. The Subsidiary Registrants, excluding Progress Energy, support their short-term borrowing needs through participation with Duke Energy and certain of its other subsidiaries in a money pool arrangement. The companies with short-term funds may provide short-term loans to affiliates participating under this arrangement. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities,” for additional discussion of the money pool arrangement.

Duke Energy and the Subsidiary Registrants, excluding Progress Energy, may also use short-term debt, including commercial paper and the money pool, as a bridge to long-term debt financings. The levels of borrowing may vary significantly over the course of the year due to the timing of long-term debt financings and the impact of fluctuations in cash flows from operations. From time to time, Duke Energy’s current liabilities exceed current assets resulting from the use of short-term debt as a funding source to meet scheduled maturities of long-term debt, as well as cash needs, which can fluctuate due to the seasonality of its businesses.

Credit Facilities and Registration Statements

See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Debt and Credit Facilities," for further information regarding credit facilities and shelf registration statements available to Duke Energy and the Duke Energy Registrants. 

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Duke Energy continues to focus on reducing risk and positioning its business for future success and will invest principally in its strongest business sectors. Duke Energy’s projected capital and investment expenditures for the next three fiscal years are included in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

DEBT MATURITIES

See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Debt and Credit Facilities," for further information regarding significant components of Current Maturities of Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

DIVIDEND PAYMENTS

In 2017, Duke Energy paid quarterly cash dividends for the 91st consecutive year and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors.

Duke Energy targets a dividend payout ratio of between 70 percent and 75 percent, based upon adjusted diluted EPS. In 2016 and 2017, Duke Energy increased the dividend by approximately 4 percent annually. Through 2022, the annual dividend growth rate is expected to be between approximately 4 to 6 percent. 

71

PART II

Dividend and Other Funding Restrictions of Duke Energy Subsidiaries

As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” Duke Energy’s wholly owned public utility operating companies have restrictions on the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy through dividends, advances or loans as a result of conditions imposed by various regulators in conjunction with merger transactions. Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida also have restrictions imposed by their first mortgage bond indentures and Articles of Incorporation, which, in certain circumstances, limit their ability to make cash dividends or distributions on common stock. Additionally, certain other Duke Energy subsidiaries have other restrictions, such as minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements pursuant to debt and other agreements that limit the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2017, the amount of restricted net assets of wholly owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy that may not be distributed to Duke Energy in the form of a loan or dividend is less than 25 percent of Duke Energy’s net assets. Duke Energy does not have any legal or other restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders out of its consolidated equity accounts. Although these restrictions cap the amount of funding the various operating subsidiaries can provide to Duke Energy, management does not believe these restrictions will have a significant impact on Duke Energy’s ability to access cash to meet its payment of dividends on common stock and other future funding obligations.

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Cash flows from operations of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure and Gas Utilities and Infrastructure are primarily driven by sales of electricity and natural gas, respectively, and costs of operations. These cash flows from operations are relatively stable and comprise a substantial portion of Duke Energy’s operating cash flows. Weather conditions, working capital and commodity price fluctuations and unanticipated expenses including unplanned plant outages, storms, legal costs and related settlements can affect the timing and level of cash flows from operations.

Duke Energy believes it has sufficient liquidity resources through the commercial paper markets, and ultimately, the Master Credit Facility, to support these operations. Cash flows from operations are subject to a number of other factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends and market volatility (see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for additional information).

At December 31, 2017, Duke Energy had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $358 million.

DEBT ISSUANCES

Depending on availability based on the issuing entity, the credit rating of the issuing entity, and market conditions, the Subsidiary Registrants prefer to issue first mortgage bonds and secured debt, followed by unsecured debt. This preference is the result of generally higher credit ratings for first mortgage bonds and secured debt, which typically result in lower interest costs. Duke Energy Corporation primarily issues unsecured debt.

See to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Debt and Credit Facilities," for further information regarding significant debt issuances. 

Duke Energy’s capitalization is balanced between debt and equity as shown in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Duke Energy’s fixed charges coverage ratio, calculated using Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) guidelines, was 2.9 times for 2017, 2.7 times for 2016 and 3.1 times for 2015.

Restrictive Debt Covenants

Duke Energy’s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Duke Energy's Master Credit Facility contains a covenant requiring the debt-to-total capitalization ratio to not exceed 65 percent for each borrower, excluding Piedmont, and 70 percent for Piedmont. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements or sublimits thereto. As of December 31, 2017, each of the Duke Energy Registrants was in compliance with all covenants related to their debt agreements. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.

Credit Ratings

Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s), Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings, Inc. provide credit ratings for various

72

PART II

Duke Energy Registrants. The following table includes Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries’ credit ratings and ratings outlook as of February 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)In January 2018, Moody's revised the ratings outlook for Duke Energy Corporation and Piedmont from stable to negative, principally due to risk of deterioration in credit metrics resulting from the Tax Act. See the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act section above for additional information on the Tax Act.

Credit ratings are intended to provide credit lenders a framework for comparing the credit quality of securities and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold. The Duke Energy Registrants’ credit ratings are dependent on the rating agencies’ assessments of their ability to meet their debt principal and interest obligations when they come due. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, the Duke Energy Registrants are unable to maintain current balance sheet strength, or if earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, credit ratings could be negatively impacted.

Cash Flow Information

The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

73

PART II

OPERATING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s operating cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 2016, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $1,325 million decrease in working capital due to weather, payment of merger transaction and integration related costs and increased property tax payments in 2017.

Offset by:

•a $969 million increase in net income after non-cash adjustments primarily due to the inclusion of Piedmont's earnings for a full year, favorable pricing and weather-normal retail volumes driven by the residential class in the Electric Utilities and Infrastructure Segment combined with continued strong cost control;

•a $136 million decrease in contributions to qualified pension plans; and

•a $37 million decrease in payments to AROs.

For the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to 2015, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $388 million increase in cash flows from working capital primarily due to the sale of the International business; and

•a $147 million decrease in contributions to qualified pension plans.

Offset by:

•a $262 million increase in payments for AROs; and

•a $156 million decrease in net income after non-cash adjustments due to higher storm costs offset by favorable weather, increased rider revenues, higher wholesale margins and strong cost control.

INVESTING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s investing cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The primary use of cash related to investing activities is capital, investment and acquisition expenditures, detailed by reportable business segment in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

74

PART II

For the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 2016, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $5,017 million decrease in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures mainly due to the Piedmont acquisition in the prior year.

Partially offset by:

•a $1,418 million decrease in net proceeds from sales of discontinued operations due to the prior year sale of the International business.

For the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to 2015, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $4,852 million increase in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures mainly due to the Piedmont acquisition; and 

•a $1,550 million decrease in net proceeds from sales of discontinued operations mainly due to the variance in proceeds between the 2015 sale of the Midwest generation business and the 2016 sale of the International business.

FINANCING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s financing cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 2016, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $2,722 million net decrease in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt driven principally by the prior year $3,750 million of senior unsecured notes used to fund a portion of the Piedmont acquisition, offset primarily by $900 million of first mortgage bonds issued by Duke Energy Florida in the current year to fund capital expenditures for ongoing construction and capital maintenance and for general corporate purposes;

•a $731 million decrease in proceeds from stock issuances used to fund a portion of the Piedmont acquisition in 2016; and

•a $118 million current year increase in dividends paid.

Partially offset by:

•a $1,085 million decrease in net borrowings from notes payable and commercial paper primarily due to the use of proceeds from $1,294 million nuclear asset-recovery bonds issued at Duke Energy Florida in 2016 to pay down outstanding commercial paper.

For the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to 2015, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $7,389 million increase in proceeds from net issuances of long-term debt mainly due to the issuances of $3,750 million of senior unsecured notes used to fund a portion of the Piedmont acquisition, $1,294 million of nuclear asset-recovery bonds and other issuances primarily used to fund capital expenditures, pay down outstanding commercial paper and repay debt maturities;

•a $1,500 million decrease in cash outflows due to the 2015 repurchase of 19.8 million common shares under the ASR; and

•a $714 million increase in proceeds resulting from the issuance of common stock to fund the acquisition of Piedmont.

Partially offset by:

•a $2,692 million increase in cash outflows for the net payments of notes payable and commercial paper primarily through the use of proceeds from $1,294 million nuclear asset-recovery bonds issued at Duke Energy Florida, further increased by the use of short-term debt in 2015 to repay long-term debt maturities at Duke Energy Florida in advance of the 2016 proceeds from the nuclear asset-recovery bonds.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications.

75

PART II

Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not always included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy, either on its own or on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Capital) through indemnification agreements entered into as part of the January 2, 2007, spin-off of Spectra Energy Corp, having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events.

Duke Energy performs ongoing assessments of its respective guarantee obligations to determine whether any liabilities have been incurred as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by third parties for which Duke Energy has issued guarantees.

See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further details of the guarantee arrangements.

Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy’s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantees, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above, normal operating lease arrangements and off-balance sheet debt related to non-consolidated VIEs, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information, see Notes 5, 7 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” "Guarantees and Indemnifications" and "Variable Interest Entities," respectively.

Contractual Obligations

Duke Energy enters into contracts that require payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities.”

(b)Interest payments on variable rate debt instruments were calculated using December 31, 2017, interest rates and holding them constant for the life of the instruments.

(c)See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.” Amounts in the table above include the interest component of capital leases based on the interest rates stated in the lease agreements and exclude certain related executory costs. Amounts exclude contingent lease obligations.

(d)Current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, and purchase obligations reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets have been excluded from the above table.

(e)Includes firm capacity payments that provide Duke Energy with uninterrupted firm access to electricity transmission capacity and natural gas transportation contracts, as well as undesignated contracts and contracts that qualify as normal purchase/normal sale (NPNS). For contracts where the price paid is based on an index, the amount is based on market prices at December 31, 2017, or the best projections of the index. For certain of these amounts, Duke Energy may settle on a net cash basis since Duke Energy has entered into payment netting arrangements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties.

(f)Amounts exclude obligations under the OVEC purchase power agreement. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Variable Interest Entities," for additional information.

(g)Includes contracts for software, telephone, data and consulting or advisory services. Amount also includes contractual obligations for engineering, procurement and construction costs for new generation plants, wind and solar facilities, plant refurbishments, maintenance and day-to-day contract work and commitments to buy certain products. Amount excludes certain open purchase orders for services that are provided on demand, for which the timing of the purchase cannot be determined.

(h)Related to future annual funding obligations to NDTF through nuclear power stations' relicensing dates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations."[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

76

PART II

(j)The table above excludes reserves for litigation, environmental remediation, asbestos-related injuries and damages claims and self-insurance claims (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”) because Duke Energy is uncertain as to the timing and amount of cash payments that will be required. Additionally, the table above excludes annual insurance premiums that are necessary to operate the business, including nuclear insurance (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”), funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans (see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Employee Benefit Plans"), AROs, including ash management expenditures (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations") and regulatory liabilities (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters”) because the amount and timing of the cash payments are uncertain. Also excluded are Deferred Income Taxes and ITCs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each discrete fiscal year. 

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Risk Management Policies

The Enterprise Risk Management policy framework at Duke Energy includes strategy, operational, project execution and financial or transaction related risks. Enterprise Risk Management includes market risk as part of the financial and transaction related risks in its framework. 

Duke Energy is exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, interest rates and equity prices. Duke Energy has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Chief Risk Officer and other members of management on market risk positions, corporate exposures and overall risk management activities. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall governance of managing commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.

The following disclosures about market risk contain forward-looking statements that involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Please review Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information” for a discussion of the factors that may impact any such forward-looking statements made herein.

Commodity Price Risk

Duke Energy is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy-related assets. Duke Energy’s exposure to these fluctuations is limited by the cost-based regulation of its regulated operations as these operations are typically allowed to recover substantially all of these costs through various cost-recovery clauses, including fuel clauses, formula based contracts, or other cost-sharing mechanisms. While there may be a delay in timing between when these costs are incurred and when they are recovered through rates, changes from year to year generally do not have a material impact on operating results of these regulated operations.

Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. Duke Energy’s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. Duke Energy employs established policies and procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations, which may include using various commodity derivatives, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Derivatives and Hedging.”

The inputs and methodologies used to determine the fair value of contracts are validated by an internal group separate from Duke Energy’s deal origination function. While Duke Energy uses common industry practices to develop its valuation techniques, changes in its pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income recognition.

Hedging Strategies

Duke Energy closely monitors risks associated with commodity price changes on its future operations and, where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts and options to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations. Duke Energy’s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge against exposure to the prices of power, fuel for generation and natural gas for customers.

The majority of instruments used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are either not designated as hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts. Mark-to-market changes for undesignated contracts entered into by regulated businesses are reflected as regulatory assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Undesignated contracts entered into by unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings.

Duke Energy may also enter into other contracts that qualify for the NPNS exception. When a contract meets the criteria to qualify as NPNS, Duke Energy applies such exception. Income recognition and realization related to NPNS contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of the commodity. For contracts qualifying for the NPNS exception, no recognition of the contract’s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract as long as the transaction remains probable of occurring.

Generation Portfolio Risks 

The Duke Energy Registrants optimize the value of their generation portfolios, which include generation assets, fuel and emission allowances. Modeled forecasts of future generation output and fuel requirements are based on forward power and fuel markets. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the business units. 

77

PART II

For the Electric Utilities segment, the generation portfolio not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations. However, the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations is partially offset by mechanisms in these regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. 

Interest Rate Risk

Duke Energy is exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of its issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt and commercial paper. Duke Energy manages interest rate exposure by limiting variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total debt and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. Duke Energy also enters into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 6, 14 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” “Debt and Credit Facilities,” “Derivatives and Hedging,” and “Fair Value Measurements.”

At December 31, 2017, Duke Energy had $687 million notional amount of floating-to-fixed swaps outstanding, $500 million notional amount of fixed-to-floating swaps outstanding and $400 million forward-starting swaps outstanding. Duke Energy had $6.1 billion of unhedged long- and short-term floating interest rate exposure at December 31, 2017. The impact of a 100 basis point change in interest rates on pretax income is approximately $61 million at December 31, 2017. This amount was estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges as of December 31, 2017.

See Note 14, "Derivatives and Hedging," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the forward-starting interest rate swaps related to the Piedmont acquisition.

Credit Risk

Credit risk represents the loss that the Duke Energy Registrants would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. Where exposed to credit risk, the Duke Energy Registrants analyze the counterparty's financial condition prior to entering into an agreement and monitor exposure on an ongoing basis. The Duke Energy Registrants establish credit limits where appropriate in the context of contractual arrangements and monitor such limits. 

To reduce credit exposure, the Duke Energy Registrants seek to include netting provisions with counterparties, which permit the offset of receivables and payables with such counterparties. The Duke Energy Registrants also frequently use master agreements with credit support annexes to further mitigate certain credit exposures. The master agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents a negotiated unsecured credit limit for each party to the agreement, determined in accordance with the Duke Energy Registrants’ internal corporate credit practices and standards. Collateral agreements generally also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions. 

The Duke Energy Registrants also obtain cash or letters of credit from certain counterparties to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on a financial analysis of the counterparty and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Derivatives and Hedging,” for additional information regarding credit risk related to derivative instruments. 

The Duke Energy Registrants’ principal counterparties for its electric and natural gas businesses are regional transmission organizations, distribution companies, municipalities, electric cooperatives and utilities located throughout the U.S. The Duke Energy Registrants have concentrations of receivables from such entities throughout these regions. These concentrations of receivables may affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. 

The Duke Energy Registrants are also subject to credit risk from transactions with their suppliers that involve prepayments in conjunction with outsourcing arrangements, major construction projects and certain commodity purchases. The Duke Energy Registrants’ credit exposure to such suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of non-performance. The Duke Energy Registrants' frequently require guarantees or letters of credit from suppliers to mitigate this credit risk.

Credit risk associated with the Duke Energy Registrants’ service to residential, commercial and industrial customers is generally limited to outstanding accounts receivable. The Duke Energy Registrants mitigate this credit risk by requiring customers to provide a cash deposit, letter of credit or surety bond until a satisfactory payment history is established, subject to the rules and regulations in effect in each retail jurisdiction, at which time the deposit is typically refunded. Charge-offs for retail customers have historically been insignificant to the operations of the Duke Energy Registrants and are typically recovered through retail rates. Management continually monitors customer charge-offs and payment patterns to ensure the adequacy of bad debt reserves. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana sell certain of their accounts receivable and related collections through Cinergy Receivables Company LLC (CRC), a Duke Energy consolidated variable interest entity. Losses on collection are first absorbed by the equity of CRC and next by the subordinated retained interests held by Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.” 

Duke Energy Carolinas has third-party insurance to cover certain losses related to asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self-insured retention. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self-insurance retention in 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by the third-party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $797 million in excess of the self-insured retention. Receivables for insurance recoveries were $489 million and $587 million at December 31, 2017, and 2016, respectively. These amounts are classified in Other within Other Noncurrent Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Duke Energy Carolinas is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Duke Energy Carolinas believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.

78

PART II

The Duke Energy Registrants also have credit risk exposure through issuance of performance and financial guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds on behalf of less than wholly owned entities and third parties. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued these guarantees, it is possible that they could be required to perform under these guarantee obligations in the event the obligor under the guarantee fails to perform. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued guarantees related to assets or operations that have been disposed of via sale, they attempt to secure indemnification from the buyer against all future performance obligations under the guarantees. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further information on guarantees issued by the Duke Energy Registrants. 

Based on the Duke Energy Registrants’ policies for managing credit risk, their exposures and their credit and other reserves, the Duke Energy Registrants do not currently anticipate a materially adverse effect on their consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty. 

Marketable Securities Price Risk

As described further in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” Duke Energy invests in debt and equity securities as part of various investment portfolios to fund certain obligations. The vast majority of investments in equity securities are within the NDTF and assets of the various pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.

Pension Plan Assets

Duke Energy maintains investments to facilitate funding the costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. These investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. The equity securities held in these pension plans are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of any single investment, sector or geographic region. Duke Energy has established asset allocation targets for its pension plan holdings, which take into consideration the investment objectives and the risk profile with respect to the trust in which the assets are held. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans,” for additional information regarding investment strategy of pension plan assets.

A significant decline in the value of plan asset holdings could require Duke Energy to increase funding of its pension plans in future periods, which could adversely affect cash flows in those periods. Additionally, a decline in the fair value of plan assets, absent additional cash contributions to the plan, could increase the amount of pension cost required to be recorded in future periods, which could adversely affect Duke Energy’s results of operations in those periods.

Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds

As required by the NRC, NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC, subsidiaries of Duke Energy maintain trust funds to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning. As of December 31, 2017, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international equity securities, debt securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per the NRC, Internal Revenue Code, NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. These investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. Duke Energy actively monitors its portfolios by benchmarking the performance of its investments against certain indices and by maintaining, and periodically reviewing, target allocation percentages for various asset classes. 

Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through retail and wholesale rates; therefore, fluctuations in investment prices do not materially affect the Consolidated Statements of Operations, as changes in the fair value of these investments are primarily deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities pursuant to Orders by the NCUC, PSCSC, FPSC and FERC. Earnings or losses of the fund will ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through retail and wholesale rates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” for additional information regarding nuclear decommissioning costs. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” for additional information regarding NDTF assets.

OTHER MATTERS

Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

The Duke Energy Registrants’ ratios of earnings to fixed charges, as calculated using SEC guidelines, are included in the tables below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

79

PART II

Environmental Regulations

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to federal, state and local regulations regarding air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. These regulations can be changed from time to time and result in new obligations of the Duke Energy Registrants.

The following sections outline various proposed and recently enacted legislation and regulations that may impact the Duke Energy Registrants. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for further information regarding potential plant retirements and regulatory filings related to the Duke Energy Registrants.

Coal Combustion Residuals

In April 2015, EPA published a rule to regulate the disposal of CCR from electric utilities as solid waste. The federal regulation classifies CCR as nonhazardous waste and allows for beneficial use of CCR with some restrictions. The regulation applies to all new and existing landfills, new and existing surface impoundments receiving CCR and existing surface impoundments that are no longer receiving CCR but contain liquid located at stations currently generating electricity (regardless of fuel source). The rule establishes requirements regarding landfill design, structural integrity design and assessment criteria for surface impoundments, groundwater monitoring, protection and remedial procedures and other operational and reporting procedures to ensure the safe disposal and management of CCR. Various industry and environmental parties have appealed EPA's CCR rule in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (D.C. Circuit Court). On April 18, 2016, EPA filed a motion with the federal court to settle five issues raised in litigation. On June 14, 2016, the court approved the motion with respect to all of those issues. Duke Energy does not expect a material impact from the settlement or that it will result in additional ARO adjustments. On September 13, 2017, EPA responded to a petition by the Utility Solid Waste Activities Group that the agency would reconsider certain provisions of the final rule, and asked the D.C. Circuit Court to suspend the litigation. The D.C. Circuit Court denied EPA’s petition to suspend the litigation and oral argument was held on November 20, 2017. The court has not issued an order in the matter. Duke Energy cannot predict the outcome of the litigation. 

In a November 15, 2017, status report filed with the D.C. Circuit Court, EPA listed the provisions it intends to reconsider, including provisions that warrant revision due to passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, which allows for implementation of the CCR rule through state or federal permit programs. EPA has indicated it will issue a proposed rule in early 2018 that includes provisions from the June 2016 settlement with petitioners and additional provisions under reconsideration. The reconsideration would not repeal the CCR rule; rather, it would modify some requirements to align with the implementation of the rule through permit programs. At this time, Duke Energy does not expect a reconsideration rulemaking to have a material impact on its coal ash basin closure plans or compliance requirements under the CCR rule. 

In addition to the requirements of the federal CCR regulation, CCR landfills and surface impoundments will continue to be independently regulated by most states. Cost recovery for future expenditures will be pursued through the normal ratemaking process with federal and state utility commissions and via wholesale contracts, which permit recovery of necessary and prudently incurred costs associated with Duke Energy’s regulated operations. For more information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations." 

Coal Ash Management Act of 2014

AROs recorded on the Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2017, and December 31, 2016, include the legal obligation for closure of coal ash basins and the disposal of related ash as a result of the Coal Ash Act, the EPA CCR rule and other agreements. The Coal Ash Act requires Duke Energy to undertake dam improvement projects and to provide access to a permanent alternative drinking water source to certain residents within a half-mile of coal ash basin compliance boundaries and to certain other potentially impacted residents. The legislation requires excavation of the Sutton, Riverbend and Dan River basins by August 1, 2019, and Asheville basins by August 1, 2022. Excavation at these sites may include a combination of transfer of coal ash to an engineered landfill or conversion for beneficial use. Basins at the H.F. Lee, Cape Fear and Weatherspoon sites are required to be closed through excavation no later than August 1, 2028. Excavation at these sites can include conversion of the basin to a lined industrial landfill, transfer of ash to an engineered landfill or conversion for beneficial use. The remaining basins are required to be closed no later than December 31, 2024, through conversion to a lined industrial landfill, transfer to an engineered landfill or conversion for beneficial use, unless certain dam improvement projects and alternative drinking water source projects are completed by October 15, 2018. Upon satisfactory completion of these projects, the closure deadline would be extended to December 31, 2029, and could include closure through the combination of a cap system and a groundwater monitoring system. 

Additionally, the Coal Ash Act requires the installation and operation of three large-scale coal ash beneficiation projects to produce reprocessed ash for use in the concrete industry. Duke Energy selected the Buck, H.F. Lee and Cape Fear plants for these projects. Closure at these sites is required to be completed no later than December 31, 2029. 

The Coal Ash Act includes a variance procedure for compliance deadlines and other issues surrounding the management of CCR and CCR surface impoundments and prohibits cost recovery in customer rates for unlawful discharge of ash impoundment waters occurring after January 1, 2014. The Coal Ash Act leaves the decision on cost recovery determinations related to closure of ash impoundments to the normal ratemaking processes before utility regulatory commissions. Consistent with the requirements of the Coal Ash Act, Duke Energy has submitted comprehensive site assessments and groundwater corrective plans to NCDEQ and will submit to NCDEQ site-specific coal ash impoundment closure plans in advance of closure. These plans and all associated permits must be approved by NCDEQ before closure work can begin.

For further information on AROs, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations.”

80

PART II

Clean Water Act 316(b)

EPA published the final 316(b) cooling water intake structure rule on August 15, 2014, with an effective date of October 14, 2014. The rule applies to 26 of the electric generating facilities the Duke Energy Registrants own and operate. The rule allows for several options to demonstrate compliance and provides flexibility to the state environmental permitting agencies to make determinations on controls, if any, that will be required for cooling water intake structures. Any required intake structure modifications and/or retrofits are expected to be installed in the 2019 to 2023 time frame. Petitions challenging the rule have been filed by several groups. Oral argument was held on September 14, 2017. It is unknown when the courts will rule on the petitions. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

Steam Electric Effluent Limitations Guidelines

On January 4, 2016, the final Steam Electric Effluent Limitations Guidelines (ELG) rule became effective. The rule establishes new requirements for wastewater streams associated with steam electric power generation and includes more stringent controls for any new coal plants that may be built in the future. As originally written, affected facilities were required to comply between 2018 and 2023, depending on the timing of Clean Water Act (CWA) discharge permits. Most of the steam electric generating facilities the Duke Energy Registrants own are affected sources. The Duke Energy Registrants are well-positioned to meet the majority of the requirements of the rule due to current efforts to convert to dry ash handling. Petitions challenging the rule have been filed by several groups. On March 16, 2015, Duke Energy Indiana filed its own legal challenge to the rule with the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals specific to the ELG rule focused on the limits imposed on IGCC facilities (gasification wastewater). All challenges to the rule were consolidated in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. On August 22, 2017, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals granted EPA’s Motion to Govern Further Proceedings, thereby severing and suspending the claims related to flue gas desulfurization wastewater, bottom ash transport water and gasification wastewater. Claims regarding gasification wastewater were stayed, pending the issuance of the variance to Duke Energy Indiana. The litigation will continue as to claims related to other waste streams. 

On August 7, 2017, EPA issued a public notice regarding its proposed decision to grant a variance to Duke Energy Indiana for mercury and total dissolved solids for gasification wastewater at its Edwardsport facility. The public comment period has ended, but EPA has not finalized its decision. Separate from the litigation, EPA finalized a rule on September 18, 2017, postponing the earliest applicability date for bottom ash transport water and flue gas desulfurization wastewater from 2018 to 2020 and retaining the end applicability date of 2023. Also, as part of the rule, EPA reiterated its intent to review the limitation guidelines for bottom ash transport water and flue gas desulfurization wastewater and potentially to conduct a new rulemaking to revise those guidelines. 

The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

Estimated Cost and Impacts of Rulemakings

Duke Energy will incur capital expenditures to comply with the environmental regulations and rules discussed above. The following table provides five-year estimated costs, excluding AFUDC, of new control equipment that may need to be installed on existing power plants primarily to comply with the Coal Ash Act requirements for conversion to dry disposal of bottom ash and fly ash, CWA 316(b) and ELGs through December 31, 2022. The table excludes ash basin closure costs recorded in Asset retirement obligations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For more information related to AROs, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Duke Energy Registrants also expect to incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance and other expenses, in addition to costs for replacement generation for potential coal-fired power plant retirements, as a result of these regulations. Actual compliance costs incurred may be materially different from these estimates due to reasons such as the timing and requirements of EPA regulations and the resolution of legal challenges to the rules. The Duke Energy Registrants intend to seek rate recovery of necessary and prudently incurred costs associated with regulated operations to comply with these regulations. 

81

PART II

Cross-State Air Pollution Rule

On December 3, 2015, EPA proposed a rule to lower the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) Phase 2 state ozone season nitrogen oxide (NOX) emission budgets for 23 eastern states, including North Carolina, Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana. EPA also proposed to eliminate the CSAPR Phase 2 ozone season state NOX budgets for Florida and South Carolina. On September 7, 2016, EPA finalized a CSAPR Update Rule that reduces the CSAPR Phase 2 state ozone season NOX emission budgets for 22 eastern states, including Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana. In the final CSAPR Update Rule, EPA removed Florida, South Carolina and North Carolina from the ozone season NOx program. Beginning in 2017, Duke Energy Registrants in these states will not be subject to any CSAPR ozone season NOx emission limitations. For the states that remain in the program, the reduced state ozone season NOx emission budgets took effect on May 1, 2017. In Kentucky and Indiana, where Duke Energy Registrants own and operate coal-fired electric generating units (EGUs) subject to the final rule requirements, near-term responses include changing unit dispatch to run certain generating units less frequently and/or purchasing NOx allowances from the trading market. Longer term, upgrading the performance of existing NOx controls is an option. The Indiana Utility Group and the Indiana Energy Association jointly filed a petition for reconsideration asking that EPA correct errors it made in calculating the Indiana budget and increase the budget accordingly. EPA has yet to act on the petition. Numerous parties have filed petitions with the D.C. Circuit Court challenging various aspects of the CSAPR Update Rule. Final briefs in the case are due April 9, 2018. The date for oral argument has not been established. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters. 

Carbon Pollution Standards for New, Modified and Reconstructed Power Plants

On October 23, 2015, EPA published a final rule in the Federal Register establishing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions limits for new, modified and reconstructed power plants. The requirements for new plants apply to plants that commenced construction after January 8, 2014. EPA set an emissions standard for coal units of 1,400 pounds of CO2 per gross MWh, which would require the application of partial carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology for a coal unit to be able to meet the limit. Utility-scale CCS is not currently a demonstrated and commercially available technology for coal-fired EGUs, and therefore the final standard effectively prevents the development of new coal-fired generation. EPA set a final standard of 1,000 pounds of CO2 per gross MWh for new natural gas combined-cycle units.

On March 28, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order directing EPA to review the rule and determine whether to suspend, revise or rescind it. On the same day, the Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a motion with the D.C. Circuit Court requesting that the court stay the litigation of the rule while it is reviewed by EPA. Subsequent to the DOJ motion, the D.C. Circuit Court canceled oral argument in the case. On August 10, 2017, the court ordered that the litigation be suspended indefinitely. The rule remains in effect pending the outcome of litigation and EPA’s review. EPA has not announced a schedule for completing its review. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters, but do not expect the impacts of the current final standards will be material to Duke Energy's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Clean Power Plan 

On October 23, 2015, EPA published in the Federal Register the final Clean Power Plan (CPP) rule that regulates CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. The CPP established CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. Petitions challenging the rule were filed by several groups and on February 9, 2016, the Supreme Court issued a stay of the final CPP rule, halting implementation of the rule until legal challenges are resolved. States in which the Duke Energy Registrants operate have suspended work on the CPP in response to the stay. Oral arguments before 10 of the 11 judges on D.C. Circuit Court were heard on September 27, 2016. The court has not issued its opinion in the case. 

On March 28, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order directing EPA to review the CPP and determine whether to suspend, revise or rescind the rule. On the same day, the DOJ filed a motion with the D.C. Circuit Court requesting that the court stay the litigation of the rule while it is reviewed by EPA. On April 28, 2017, the court issued an order to suspend the litigation for 60 days. On August 8, 2017, the court, on its own motion, extended the suspension of the litigation for an additional 60 days. On October 16, 2017, EPA issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPR) to repeal the CPP based on a change to EPA’s legal interpretation of the section of the Clean Air Act (CAA) on which the CPP was based. In the proposal, EPA indicates that it has not determined whether it will issue a rule to replace the CPP, and if it will do so, when and what form that rule will take. The comment period on EPA's NPR ends April 26, 2018. On December 28, 2017, EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM) in which it seeks public comment on various aspects of a potential CPP replacement rule. The comment period on the ANPRM ends February 26, 2018. If EPA decides to move forward with a CPP replacement rule, it will need to issue a formal proposal for public comment. Litigation of the CPP remains on hold in the D.C. Circuit Court and the February 2016 U.S. Supreme Court stay of the CPP remains in effect. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters. 

Global Climate Change

The Duke Energy Registrants’ greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consist primarily of CO2 and result primarily from operating a fleet of coal-fired and natural gas-fired power plants. In 2017, the Duke Energy Registrants’ power plants emitted approximately 105 million tons of CO2. Future levels of CO2 emissions will be influenced by variables that include fuel prices, compliance with new or existing regulations, economic conditions that affect electricity demand and the technologies deployed to generate the electricity necessary to meet the customer demand.

82

PART II

The Duke Energy Registrants have taken actions that have resulted in a reduction of CO2 emissions over time. Actions have included the retirement of 47 coal-fired EGUs with a combined generating capacity of 5,425 MW. Much of that capacity has been replaced with state-of-the-art highly efficient natural gas-fired generation that produces far fewer CO2 emissions per unit of electricity generated. Duke Energy also has made investments to expand its portfolio of wind and solar projects, increase energy efficiency offerings and invest in its zero-CO2 emissions hydropower and nuclear plants. These efforts have diversified its system and significantly reduced CO2 emissions. Between 2005 and 2017, the Duke Energy Registrants have collectively lowered the CO2 emissions from their electricity generation by more than 31 percent, which lowers the exposure to any future mandatory CO2 emission reduction requirements or carbon tax, whether as a result of federal legislation, EPA regulation, state regulation or other as yet unknown emission reduction requirement. Duke Energy will continue to explore the use of currently-available and commercially-demonstrated technology to reduce CO2 emissions, including energy efficiency, wind, solar, storage, nuclear and carbon sequestration. Duke Energy will adjust to evolving and innovative technologies in a way that balances the reliability and affordability that customers expect. Under any future scenario involving mandatory CO2 limitations, the Duke Energy Registrants would plan to seek recovery of their compliance costs through appropriate regulatory mechanisms.

The Duke Energy Registrants recognize certain groups associate severe weather events with increasing levels of GHGs in the atmosphere and forecast the possibility these weather events could have a material impact on future results of operations should they occur more frequently and with greater severity. However, the uncertain nature of potential changes in extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration and severity), the long period of time over which any potential changes might take place and the inability to predict potential changes with any degree of accuracy, make estimating any potential future financial risk to the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations impossible. The Duke Energy Registrants have historically planned and prepared for extreme weather events, such as ice storms, tornadoes, hurricanes, severe thunderstorms, high winds and droughts they occasionally experience.

The Duke Energy Registrants annually, biannually or triennially prepare lengthy, forward-looking “integrated resource plans” (IRPs). These detailed, highly technical plans are based on the company’s thorough analysis of numerous factors that can impact the cost of producing and delivering electricity that influence long-term resource planning decisions. The IRP process helps to evaluate a range of options, taking into account forecasts of future electricity demand, fuel prices, transmission improvements, new generating capacity, integration of renewables, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response initiatives. The IRP process also helps evaluate potential environmental and regulatory scenarios to better mitigate policy and economic risks. The IRPs we file with regulators look out 10 to 20 years depending on the jurisdiction.

For a number of years, the Duke Energy Registrants have included a price on CO2 emissions in their IRP planning process to account for the potential regulation of CO2 emissions. Incorporating a price on CO2 emissions in the IRP allows for the evaluation of existing and future resource needs against potential climate change policy risk in the absence of policy certainty. One of the challenges with using a CO2 price, especially in the absence of a clear and certain policy, is determining the appropriate price to use. To address this uncertainty and ensure the company remains agile, the Duke Energy Registrants typically use a range of potential CO2 prices to reflect a range of potential policy outcomes.

The Duke Energy Registrants routinely take steps to reduce the potential impact of severe weather events on their electric distribution systems. The Duke Energy Registrants’ electric generating facilities are designed to withstand extreme weather events without significant damage. The Duke Energy Registrants maintain an inventory of coal and oil on-site to mitigate the effects of any potential short-term disruption in fuel supply so they can continue to provide customers with an uninterrupted supply of electricity. 

North Carolina Legislation

In July 2017, the North Carolina General Assembly passed House Bill 589 and it was subsequently enacted into law by the governor. The law includes, among other things, overall reform of the application of Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA) for new solar projects in the state, a requirement for the utility to procure approximately 2,600 MW of renewable energy through a competitive bidding process and recovery of costs related to the competitive bidding process through the fuel clause and a competitive procurement rider. The law stipulated certain deadlines for Duke Energy to file for NCUC approval of programs required under the law. Duke Energy has made some regulatory filings since the passage of the law and will continue to implement the requirements of House Bill 589. 

Nuclear Matters

Following the events at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station in Japan, in March 2011, the NRC formed a task force to conduct a comprehensive review of processes and regulations to determine whether the agency should make additional improvements to the nuclear regulatory system. Subsequently, the NRC targeted a set of improvements designed to enhance accident mitigation, strengthen emergency preparedness and improve efficiency of NRC programs. Pursuant to the findings of the task force, in March 2012, the NRC issued three regulatory orders requiring safety enhancements related to mitigation strategies to respond to extreme natural events resulting in the loss of power at a plant, ensuring reliable hardened containment vents and enhancing spent fuel pool instrumentation. Duke Energy is committed to compliance with all safety enhancements ordered by the NRC and has completed actions on two of the three NRC orders, as required. The remaining order is focused only on enhancements to boiling water reactor designs which, for Duke Energy, is unique to Brunswick Steam Electric Plant. Actions associated with this third order will be completed by March 2019. With the NRC’s continuing review of this matter, Duke Energy cannot predict to what extent the NRC will impose additional licensing and safety-related requirements or the costs of complying with such requirements. Upon receipt of additional guidance from the NRC and a collaborative industry review, Duke Energy will be able to determine an implementation plan and associated costs. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of applicable risk factors.

New Accounting Standards

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” for a discussion of the impact of new accounting standards.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK