Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  

Construction and maintenance sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we can be exposed to significant financial losses as well as civil and criminal liabilities.  

Construction and maintenance sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly regulated materials. On many sites we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures. If we fail to implement such procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, our employees and others may become injured. This could result in financial losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

In addition, our projects can involve the handling of hazardous and other highly regulated materials, which, if improperly handled or disposed of, could subject us to civil and criminal liabilities. We are also subject to regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Although we maintain functional groups whose primary purpose is to ensure we implement effective health, safety, and environmental (HSE) work procedures throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites, the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to liability.  

Our safety record is critical to our reputation. Many of our clients require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid for contracts and many contracts provide for automatic termination or forfeiture of some or all of our contract fees or profit in the event we fail to meet certain measures. As a result, our failure to maintain adequate safety standards could result in reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Negative conditions in the credit markets could impair our ability to operate our business and implement our acquisition strategy  

Although we finance much of our operations using cash provided by operations, we depend on the availability of credit to grow our business and to help fund business acquisitions. In addition, from time to time our clients depend of the availability of credit to help finance their capital projects. Due to the continuing instability of the credit markets in the U.S. and abroad, the availability of credit has continued to tighten in spite of government efforts to increase liquidity and hold or reduce interest rates. In addition, we are subject to the risk that the counterparties to our credit agreements may go bankrupt if they suffer catastrophic demand on their liquidity that will prevent them from fulfilling their contractual obligations to us. This situation may inhibit our growth and could negatively impact our clients’ ability to fund their projects, resulting in our loss of revenues.  

We routinely enter into contracts with counterparties (including vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors) that may be negatively impacted by recent events in the credit markets. If those counterparties are unable to perform their obligations to us or our clients, we may be required to provide additional services or make alternate arrangements with other parties to ensure adequate performance and delivery of services to our clients. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, which could impact our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

In addition, we typically bill our clients for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our clients delaying or failing to pay our invoices. In weak economic environments, we may experience increased delays and failures due to, among other reasons, a diminution in our clients’ access to the credit markets. If one or more clients delays in paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. Additional discussion of some of the risks associated with the current economic downturn can be found in Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below.  

Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel.  

The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain personnel, including engineers, architects, designers, craft personnel, and corporate management professionals who have the required experience and expertise. There is intense demand for these employees. In certain geographic areas, for example, we may not be able to satisfy the demand for our services because of our inability to successfully hire and retain qualified craft personnel. In addition, as some of our key personnel approach retirement age, we also need to have appropriate succession plans in place and to successfully implement such plans. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel or effectively implement appropriate succession plans, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors, and vendors presenting claims to us for, among other things, recovery of costs related to certain projects. Similarly, we occasionally present change orders and other claims to our clients, subcontractors, and vendors. If we fail to document properly the nature of our claims and change orders or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating reasonable settlements with our clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we could incur cost overruns and reduced profits. Additionally, irrespective of how well we document the nature of our claims and change orders, the cost to prosecute and defend claims and change orders can be significant. In many of our contracts with clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we agree to retain or assume potential liabilities for damages, penalties, losses, and other exposures relating to projects that could result in claims that greatly exceed the anticipated profits relating to those contracts and that could, if significant enough, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are also subject to claims for not fulfilling guarantees relating to, among other things, project schedules, and plant performance.  

19  

Table of Contents 

In addition, we become a party to litigation in the normal course of business. Most litigation with which we are involved as a defendant relates to workers’ compensation, personal injury, environmental, employment/labor, professional liability, and similar matters. Such lawsuits may relate to current or completed projects and may be brought by our clients as well as those who use or reside near our clients’ projects. If a lawsuit is determined contrary to our interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. Our insurance programs have varying coverage limits and maximums. In addition, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under these programs. As a result, we may be subject to future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured. Our insurers are subject to business risk. One or more of our insurers may be unable to fulfill their insurance obligations due to insolvency or otherwise. To the extent we are not insured against a loss or our insurer fails to provide coverage, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted, which impact could be material.  

Our business is vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the markets in which our clients operate and dependent on the timing and funding of new awards.  

We provide technical, professional, and construction services to clients operating in a number of markets including oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; programs for various national governments, including the U.S. federal government; chemicals and polymers; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; infrastructure; buildings; and other, general industrial and consumer businesses and markets (such as technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; food and consumer products; and mining and minerals). These markets and the resulting demand for our services have been, and we expect will continue to be, cyclical and subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and changes in client spending.  

During economic slowdowns, many of our clients may face considerable budget shortfalls or may delay capital spending, which may decrease the overall demand for our services. For example, a decrease in state tax revenue as well as other economic declines may result in lower state and local government spending. Our clients may also find it more difficult to raise capital in the future due to substantial limitations on the availability of credit and other uncertainties in the municipal and general credit markets. In addition, our clients may also demand better pricing terms and their ability to pay our invoices in a timely manner may be affected by an increasingly weakened economy. Our business has traditionally lagged recoveries in the general economy and, therefore, may not recover as quickly as the economy at large. If the economy weakens further or government spending is reduced, then our revenues, net income and overall financial condition may deteriorate.  

Regardless of economic or market conditions, investment decisions by our customers may vary by location or as a result of other factors like the availability of labor or relative construction cost. Because we are dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, we are therefore vulnerable to changes in our clients’ markets and investment decisions. As a result, our past results have varied considerably and may continue to vary depending upon the demand for future projects in the markets and the locations in which we operate.  

Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our customer’s investment decisions and therefore subject us to risks of cancellation, delays in existing work, or changes in the timing and funding of new awards.  

Commodity prices can affect our customers in a number of ways. Some of our customers produce commodity products such as fertilizers, oil and gas, or copper. Fluctuations in price can have a direct effect on our customers’ profitability and cash flow and, therefore, their willingness to continue to invest or make new capital investments. Commodity prices also strongly affect the costs of projects. Rising commodity prices can negatively impact the potential returns on investments that are planned, as well as those in progress. As a result of either or both of these factors, our customers may defer new investment or cancel or delay existing projects. Cancellations and delays have affected our past results and may continue to do so in significant and unpredictable ways.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance.  

Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions, and regulations including oversight audits by various government authorities and profit and cost controls. Government contracts are also exposed to uncertainties associated with funding. Contracts with the U.S. federal government, for example, are subject to the uncertainties of Congressional funding. Governments are typically under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for government programs may even be eliminated. As a result, our government clients may terminate our contracts for convenience or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice. Since government contracts represent a significant percentage of our revenues (those with the U.S. federal government represented approximately 16.8% of our total revenue in fiscal 2008), the loss of such contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

In addition, government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio-economic requirements. For example, for contracts with the U.S. federal government, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act, and DoD security regulations. We must also comply with various other government regulations and requirements as well as various statutes related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping, and accounting. Government contracts also contain terms that expose us to heightened levels of risk and potential liability than non-government contracts. This includes, for example, unlimited indemnification obligations.  

We also are subject to government audits, investigations, and proceedings, and so-called “qui tam” actions brought by individuals or the government under the U.S. Federal False Claims Act or under similar state and local laws. For example, government agencies routinely review and audit government contractors to determine whether allowable costs are in accordance with applicable regulations.  

If we violate a rule or regulation, fail to comply with a contractual or other requirement or do not satisfy an audit, a variety of penalties can be imposed including monetary damages and criminal and civil penalties. In addition, our government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed. Any of these actions could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

We bear the risk of cost overruns in fixed-price and guaranteed maximum price contracts. We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if costs increase above our estimates.  

For fiscal 2008, approximately 14.2% of our revenues were earned under contracts that were either fixed-price or guaranteed maximum price in nature. For such contracts, we bear the risk of paying some, if not all, of any cost overruns. Under fixed-price and guaranteed maximum-price contracts, contract prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates that are based on a number of assumptions, including those about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, there are errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications, or if circumstances change due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, changes in the costs of raw materials or our vendors’ or subcontractors’ inability to perform, then cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. If the project is significant, or there are one or more issues that impact multiple projects, costs overruns could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

21  

Table of Contents 

The contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by our clients. Additionally, even if fully performed, our backlog may not be a good indicator of our future gross margins.  

At September 30, 2008, our backlog totaled approximately $16.7 billion. Projects can remain in backlog for an extended time. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination or suspension at the discretion of the client. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. The risk of contracts in backlog being cancelled or suspended generally increases during periods of wide-spread economic slowdowns. Accordingly, there is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized as revenues in the amounts reported or, if realized, will result in profits.  

In addition, the gross margins (i.e., contract revenue less direct costs of contracts) we realize can vary considerably between contracts. One aspect of our business that can have a significant effect on gross margins is the amount of pass-through costs incurred. When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement, and construction of a project or the maintenance of a client’s plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment, and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly, and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. Since pass-through costs typically do not bring significant margins with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in revenues without experiencing a corresponding change in our gross margins.  

Additionally, the way we perform on our individual contracts can affect greatly our gross margins and hence, future profitability. In some markets, there is an increasing trend towards cost-reimbursable contracts with incentive-fee arrangements. Typically, our incentive fees are based on such things as achievement of target completion dates or target costs, overall safety performance, overall client satisfaction, and other performance criteria. If we fail to meet such targets or achieve the expected performance standards, we may receive a lower, or even zero, incentive fee resulting in lower gross margins. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the contracts in backlog, assuming they produce the revenues currently expected, will generate gross margins at the rates we have realized in the past.  

Our use of joint ventures and partnerships exposes us to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control.  

As is common in the industry, we participate in projects by entering into joint ventures, partnerships, and similar arrangements. This situation exposes us to a number of risks, including the risk that our partners may be unable to fulfill their obligations to us or our clients. Our partners may also be unable to provide the required levels of financial support to the partnerships. If these circumstances occur, we may be required to provide additional services or make additional investments to ensure adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, which could impact our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

In addition, we participate in joint ventures and similar arrangements in which we are not the controlling partner. In these cases, we have limited control over the actions of the joint venture. To the extent the controlling partner makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.  

We are dependent on third parties to complete many of our contracts.  

Much of the work performed under our contracts is performed by third-party subcontractors we hire. We also rely on third-party equipment manufacturers or suppliers to provide much of the equipment and materials used for projects. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay   

22  

Table of Contents 

 for subcontractors or equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially in a lump-sum or a fixed-price contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a subcontractor, supplier or manufacturer fails to provide services, supplies or equipment as required under a contract for any reason, we may be required to source these services, equipment or supplies to other third parties on a delayed basis or at a higher price than anticipated, which could impact contract profitability.  

In the current economic environment, third-parties may find it difficult to obtain sufficient financing to help fund their operations. The inability to obtain financing could adversely affect a third party’s ability to provide materials, equipment or services which could affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

Maintaining adequate bonding capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win fixed-price contracts.  

In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance or payment bonds to our customers. These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. We have bonding capacity but, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the surety’s sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding markets generally, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that our bonding capacity will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new contracts that require such bonding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.  

If we fail to comply with federal, state, local or foreign governmental requirements, our business may be adversely affected.  

We are subject to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that affect our business. For example, we are subject to a variety of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous or waste materials and the remediation of contamination associated with the releases of hazardous substances and human health and safety. These laws and regulations and the risk of attendant litigation can cause significant delays to a project and add significantly to its cost. Violations of regulations could subject us and our management to civil and criminal penalties and other liabilities.  

Various U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations may impose liability for property damage and costs of investigation and cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances on property currently or previously owned by us or arising out of our waste management or environmental remediation activities. These laws may impose responsibility and liability without regard to knowledge of or causation of the presence of contaminants. The liability under these laws is joint and several. We have potential liabilities associated with our past waste management and other activities and with our current and prior ownership of various properties. The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of unforeseen clean-up obligations at these or other sites could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  

When we perform our services, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions. We may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties as a result of such exposures. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities arising under environmental or safety laws. A claim, if not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Such laws, regulations and policies are reviewed periodically and any changes could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could, for example, relax or repeal laws and regulations relating to the environment, which could result in a decline in the demand for our environmental services and, in turn, could   

23  

Table of Contents 

 negatively impact our revenue. Our failure to comply with such laws or regulations, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

In addition, we and many of our clients operate in highly regulated environments, which may require us or our clients to obtain, and to comply with, federal, state and local government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with, or the loss or modification of, the conditions of permits or approvals may subject us to penalties or other liabilities, which can adversely affect our business, financial condition or result of operations.  

Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits.  

Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other foreign corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws, and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, we regularly provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win contracts and result in reduced revenues and profits.  

We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.  

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Although we have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, if we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

The loss of one or a few customers could have an adverse effect on us.  

A few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. For example, in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007, and fiscal 2006, approximately 16.8%, 16.6%, and 16.4%, respectively, of our revenue was earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts at any time. Our loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

24  

Table of Contents 

We engage in a highly competitive business. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could lose market share and our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted.  

We face intense competition to provide technical, professional, and construction services to clients. The extent of such competition varies by industry, geographic market, and project type. For example, with respect to our construction and operations and maintenance services, clients generally award large projects to large contractors, which may give our larger competitors an advantage when bidding for these projects. Conversely, with respect to our engineering, design, architectural, and consulting services, low barriers of entry can result in competition with smaller, newer competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience a loss of market share or reduced profitability or both, which if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

Our larger competitors for engineering, construction, and maintenance services for process plants include Bechtel; Fluor; Foster Wheeler Ltd.; URS; KBR; Aker Kvaerner; Technip; WorleyParsons; and AMEC. In the area of buildings, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as HDR; Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum; AeCOM Technology; and Turner Construction. In the area of infrastructure, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as Parsons Brinckerhoff; HNTB; Tetra Tech; Parsons; and W.S. Atkins. In the area of U.S. federal programs, our principal competitors include several of the competitors listed above as well as the Shaw Group; SAIC; CH2M Hill; Weston Solutions; Lockheed Martin Corporation; and Computer Sciences Corporation. And in the area of pulp and paper, our principal competitors include KBR and AMEC.  

In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in Risk Factors, our international operations are also exposed to additional risks and uncertainties including unfavorable political developments and weak foreign economies.  

For fiscal 2008, approximately 37.8% of our revenues was earned from clients outside the U.S. Our business is dependent on the continued success of our international operations, and we expect our international operations to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. At a minimum, our reported financial condition and results of operations are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar. In addition, our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including:  

   •    Recessions in foreign economies and the impact on our costs of doing business in those countries;  

   •    Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;  

   •    Unexpected changes in foreign government policies and regulatory requirements;  

   •    The adoption of new, and the expansion of existing, trade restrictions;  

   •    Embargoes;  

   •    Acts of war and terrorism;  

   •    The ability to finance efficiently our foreign operations;  

   •    Social, political, and economic instability;  

   •    Tax increases;  

   •    Limitations on the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; and  

   •    U.S. government policies.  

To the extent our international operations are affected by unexpected or adverse economic, political and other conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.  

25  

Table of Contents 

In addition, our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders. Although we have policies and procedures to comply with U.S. and foreign international trade laws, the violation of such laws could subject the company and its employees to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business.  

Our business strategy relies in part on acquisitions to sustain our growth. Acquisitions of other companies present certain risks and uncertainties.  

Our business strategy involves growth through, among other things, the acquisition of other companies. Acquiring companies present a number of risks, including:  

   •    Difficulties relating to combining previously separate entities into a combined, integrated, and efficient business;  

   •    The effects of diverting management’s attention from day-to-day operations to matters involving the integration of acquired companies;  

   •    Assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition was negotiated;  

   •    Failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements;  

   •    Potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations;  

   •    Potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition;  

   •    Difficulties relating to assimilating the personnel, services, and systems of an acquired business and to assimilating marketing and other operational capabilities; and  

   •    Difficulties in applying and integrating our system of internal controls to an acquired business.  

In addition, there is no assurance that we will continue to locate suitable acquisition targets or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. In addition, the current credit markets may make it more difficult and costly to finance acquisitions. Acquisitions may also bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced.  

In the event we issue stock as consideration for certain acquisitions we may make, we could dilute share ownership.  

One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities. Accordingly, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-4 on December 17, 2007. If we issue additional equity securities pursuant to this shelf registration statement or otherwise, such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing shareholders’ individual ownership percentages in the Company.  

Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.  

Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, including:  

   •    Fluctuations in the spending patterns of our government and commercial customers;  

   •    The number and significance of projects executed during a quarter;  

   •    Unanticipated changes in contract performance, particularly with contracts that have funding limits;  

26  

Table of Contents 

   •    The timing of resolving change orders, requests for equitable adjustments, and other contract adjustments;  

   •    Delays incurred in connection with a project;  

   •    Weather conditions that delay work at project sites;  

   •    The timing of expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions or other corporate initiatives;  

   •    Natural disasters or other crises, such as the hurricanes affecting oil-producing regions like the Gulf of Mexico;  

   •    Staff levels and utilization rates;  

   •    Changes in prices of services offered by our competitors; and  

   •    General economic and political conditions.  

Fluctuations in quarterly results could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.  

Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare our financial statements.  

In preparing our financial statements, our management is required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include:  

   •    Recognition of contract revenue, costs, profit or losses in applying the principles of percentage of completion accounting;  

   •    Estimated amounts for expected project losses, warranty costs, contract close-out or other costs;  

   •    Recognition of recoveries under contract change orders or claims;  

   •    Collectibility of billed and unbilled accounts receivable and the need and amount of any allowance for doubtful accounts;  

   •    The amount of reserves necessary for self-insured risks;  

   •    Accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves;  

   •    Valuation of assets acquired, and liabilities, goodwill, and intangible assets assumed, in acquisitions;  

   •    Provisions for income taxes and realizability of deferred tax assets; and  

   •    The determination of liabilities under pension and other post-retirement benefit programs.  

An impairment charge of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Under the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), we are required to test goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for possible impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing it over time. As of September 30, 2008, we had $924.1 million of goodwill, representing 21.6% of our total assets of $4.3 billion.  

We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill at the end of the third quarter of our fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant   

27  

Table of Contents 

 sustained decline in a reporting unit’s market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of our business, potential government actions toward our facilities, and other factors.  

If the fair value of our reporting units is less than their book value, we could be required to record an impairment charge. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 142, we may apply various valuation techniques to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. The application of these valuation methods can be influenced by such factors as industry performance, changes in technology and operating cash flows. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.  

Rising inflation, interest rates, and/or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services as well as decrease our profit on our existing contracts, in particular with respect to our fixed-price contracts.  

Rising inflation, interest rates, or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services. In addition, we bear all of the risk of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are fixed-price and may be at risk to the effects of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are guaranteed maximum-price. Because a significant portion of our revenues are earned from cost-reimbursable type contracts (approximately 85.8% during fiscal 2008), the effects of inflation on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few years have been generally minor. However, if we expand our business into markets and geographic areas where fixed-price and lump-sum work is more prevalent, inflation may have a larger impact on our results of operations in the future. Therefore, increases in inflation, interest rates or construction costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover or change of control.  

We are a Delaware corporation. Certain anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware general corporation law impose restrictions on the ability of others to acquire control of us. In addition, certain provisions of our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover. For example:  

   •    Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms;  

   •    Only our Board of Directors can fill vacancies on the board;  

   •    There are various restrictions on the ability of a shareholder to nominate a director for election; and  

   •    Our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preference shares.  

These types of provisions, as well as our Shareholder Rights Agreement, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Accordingly, stockholders may be limited in the ability to obtain a premium for their shares.  

 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

 Item 2. PROPERTIES