PART I      

   Item 1. Business.     

General  

The company was originally organized as Caterpillar Tractor Co. in 1925 in the State of California. In 1986, the company reorganized as Caterpillar Inc. in the State of Delaware. As used herein, the term "Caterpillar," "we," "us," "our," or "the company" refers to Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries unless designated or identified otherwise. 

Principal Lines of Business / Nature of Operations 

We operate in three principal lines of business: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Due to financial information required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, we have also divided our business into nine reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. Information about our reportable segments, including geographic information, appears in Note 24 – “Segment information” of Exhibit 13. 

Other information about our operations in 2008 and our outlook for 2009, including risks associated with foreign operations, is incorporated by reference from "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of Exhibit 13. 

Company Strengths  

Caterpillar is the leader in construction and mining equipment, and diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines in our size range. The company is also a leading services provider through Cat Financial, Caterpillar Logistics Services Inc., Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services and Progress Rail Services Corporation (Progress Rail). Annual sales and revenues were $ 51.324 billion in 2008, making Caterpillar the largest manufacturer in its industry. Caterpillar is also a leading U.S. exporter. Through direct sales of certain products and a global network of independent dealers, Caterpillar builds long-term relationships with customers around the world. For more than 80 years, the Caterpillar name has been associated with the highest level of quality products and services. More information is available at www.CAT.com. 

 Page 1 

Competitive Environment 

Caterpillar products and product support services are sold worldwide into a variety of highly competitive markets. In all markets, we compete on the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price. From time to time, the intensity of competition results in price discounting in a particular industry or region. Such price discounting puts pressure on margins and can negatively impact operating profit. 

Outside of the United States, certain competitors enjoy competitive advantages inherent to operating in their home countries or regions. 

   Machinery     

The competitive environment for Caterpillar’s machinery business consists of some global competitors and many regional and specialized local competitors. Examples of global competitors include, but are not limited to, Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of the Volvo Group AB), CNH Global N.V., Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Terex Corporation, J.C. Bamford Ltd. and Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Each of these companies have varying numbers of product lines that compete with Caterpillar products and each have varying degrees of regional focus. John Deere Construction and Forestry Division (part of Deere & Co.), for example, has numerous product lines that compete with Caterpillar primarily in North America and Latin America. Others, like JCB, offer a limited range of products that compete globally against Caterpillar. 

Global industry demand increased in the first three quarters of 2008 compared to the same period in 2007 due to gains in developing economies and commodity sectors. Demand in the developed economies declined during this period. The financial crisis worsened after mid September, leading to a worldwide recession and collapses in most commodity prices. During fourth quarter 2008, industry demand in all regions dropped below fourth quarter 2007 levels. 

Caterpillar's logistics business provides integrated supply chain services for Caterpillar and over 55 other companies worldwide. It competes with global, regional and local competitors, including companies such as DHL International, GmbH and United Parcel Service, Inc. The unit has grown rapidly since its inception in 1987. 

Since its acquisition by Caterpillar in June 2006, wholly owned subsidiary Progress Rail has continued its position in North America as a leading provider of a broad range of products. Based in Albertville, Alabama, Progress Rail is a leading provider of remanufactured locomotive, railcar and track products and services to the North American railroad industry. The company also has one of the most extensive rail service and supply networks in North America. Expansion into the railroad aftermarket business is a good fit with our strategic direction and leverages Caterpillar’s global remanufacturing capabilities. 

   Engines     

Caterpillar operates in a very competitive engine/turbine manufacturing and packaging environment. The company designs, manufactures, markets and sells diesel, heavy fuel and natural gas reciprocating engines for Caterpillar machinery, electric power generation systems, on-highway vehicles and locomotives, marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agricultural and other applications. In addition, Caterpillar provides industrial turbines and turbine related services for oil and gas and power generation applications. 

The competitive environment for reciprocating engines in marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agriculture and electric power generation systems along with turbines consists of a few global competitors who compete in a variety of markets that Caterpillar serves, and a larger set of companies who compete in a limited size range and/or application. Principal global competitors include, but are not limited to, Cummins Inc., MTU Friedrichshafen and MTU Detroit Diesel (both are a Tognum Group Company) and Wartsila Corp. Other competitors, such as John Deere Power Systems, Siemens AG Power Generation, GE Energy, MAN Diesel SE, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., and Volvo Penta (part of AB Volvo Group) compete in certain markets in which Caterpillar competes. An additional set of competitors, including Generac Power Systems, Inc., Kohler Co., Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd., Rolls-Royce Group plc and others, are packagers who source engines and/or other components from domestic and international suppliers and market products regionally and internationally through a variety of distribution channels. 

Page 2 

In North America, Caterpillar competes for sales of on-highway diesel engines with, among others, Cummins Inc., Detroit Diesel Corp. and Mercedes-Benz (both part of Daimler AG), Navistar International Corp. and AB Volvo Group. Outside North America, Caterpillar competes for sales of on-highway diesel engines with, among others, Mitsubishi Fuso Truck & Bus Corp. (both part of Daimler AG), DAF Trucks N.V., Dongfeng Motor Corporation, Fiat PowerTrain Technologies S.p.A., MAN AG and Scania AB. Some of these competitors are truck and/or bus manufacturers with proprietary diesel engines who also offer engines from independent manufacturers such as Caterpillar. As previously announced, Caterpillar will not provide Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 2010 compliant engines to truck and other on-highway original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Additionally, by mid-2009 Caterpillar will supply a very limited number of EPA 2007 compliant engines to truck and other on-highway OEMs.  

Since the introduction of its four engine models with ACERT® Technology beginning in 2003, Caterpillar has continued to focus investment and resources on leveraging ACERT Technology into non-road markets, as well as into more of its engine platforms. The building blocks for ACERT Technology are flexible and scaleable and are being applied as needed based on engine platform and application. From October 2004 through year-end 2008, Caterpillar has shipped over 65,000 Caterpillar machines powered by engines with ACERT Technology. A line of ACERT industrial, electric power and marine engines has been released to further leverage the technology throughout Caterpillar’s businesses and engine platforms. 

We believe ACERT provides Caterpillar a valuable foundation now and in the future to meet emissions and performance requirements, and we plan to continue investing in developing and leveraging ACERT Technology systems and components. 

Caterpillar’s remanufacturing business provides services for a variety of products and services to Caterpillar and other external clients. The remanufacturing business competes on a regional basis with similarly sized or smaller companies. The company launched the remanufacturing business in the 1970s with engines/turbines and is now one of the world’s largest remanufacturers, processing more than two million units annually and recycling more than 140 million pounds of remanufactured products each year. The business continues to grow at rates well above that of the global economy as a whole. 

Previously, Caterpillar announced it would comply with Tier 4 requirements for its non-road engines and has invested significant R&D expenditures on projects to ensure compliance, which also includes the use of certain allowances and credits provided under the Tier 4 regulations. 

   Financial Products     

Our financial products business is primarily conducted by Cat Financial. Cat Financial, incorporated in Delaware, is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Caterpillar. Cat Financial's primary business is to provide retail and wholesale financing alternatives for Caterpillar products to customers around the world. Such retail financing is primarily comprised of financing of Caterpillar equipment, machinery and engines. In addition, Cat Financial also provides financing for vehicles, power generation facilities and marine vessels that, in most cases, incorporate Caterpillar products. In addition to retail financing, Cat Financial provides wholesale financing to Caterpillar dealers and purchases short-term dealer receivables from Caterpillar. The various financing plans offered by Cat Financial are designed to increase the opportunity for sales of Caterpillar products and generate financing income for Cat Financial. A significant portion of Cat Financial's activities is conducted in North America. However, Cat Financial has additional offices and subsidiaries in Asia, Australia, Europe and Latin America. 

For over 25 years, Cat Financial has been providing financing in the various markets in which it participates, contributing to its knowledge of asset values, industry trends and customer needs. 

In certain instances, Cat Financial's operations are subject to supervision and regulation by state, federal and various foreign governmental authorities, and may be subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions which, among other things, (i) regulate credit granting activities and the administration of loans, (ii) establish maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges, (iii) require disclosures to customers, (iv) govern secured transactions, (v) set collection, foreclosure, repossession and other trade practices and (vi) regulate the use and reporting of information related to a borrower's credit experience. 

Page 3 

Cat Financial's retail leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 60 percent*) include: 

      ·   Tax leases that are classified as either operating or finance leases for financial accounting purposes, depending on the characteristics of the lease. For tax purposes, Cat Financial is considered the owner of the equipment (17 percent*).     

      ·   Finance (non-tax) leases where the lessee for tax purposes is considered the owner of the equipment during the term of the lease, and the agreement either requires or allows the customer to purchase the equipment for a fixed price at the end of the term (21 percent*).     

      ·   Installment sale contracts, which are equipment loans that enable customers to purchase equipment with a down payment or trade-in and structured payments over time (21 percent*).     

      ·   Governmental lease-purchase plans in the United States that offer low interest rates and flexible terms to qualified non-federal government agencies (1 percent*).     

Retail notes receivables (27 percent*) include: 

      ·   Loans that allow customers and dealers to use their Caterpillar equipment as collateral to obtain financing.     

Wholesale notes receivables, finance leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 13 percent*) include: 

      ·   Inventory/rental programs which provide assistance to dealers by financing new Caterpillar inventory and rental fleets (5 percent*).     

      ·   Short-term dealer receivables that Cat Financial purchases from Caterpillar and subsidiaries at a discount (8 percent*).     

The retail financing business is highly competitive, with financing for users of Caterpillar equipment available through a variety of sources, principally commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. Cat Financial's competitors include Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Inc.; General Electric Capital Corporation and various local banks and finance companies. In addition, many of our manufacturing competitors, such as Volvo Financial Services, Komatsu Financial L.P. and John Deere Credit Corporation, use below-market interest rate programs (subsidized by the manufacturer) to assist machine sales. Caterpillar and Cat Financial work together to provide a broad array of financial merchandising programs around the world to meet these competitive offers. 

Cat Financial's financial results are largely dependent upon the ability of Caterpillar dealers to sell equipment and customers' willingness to enter into financing or leasing agreements. It is also affected by, among other things, the availability of funds from its financing sources, general economic conditions such as inflation and market interest rates and its cost of funds relative to its competitors. 

Cat Financial has a "match funding" policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed rate or floating rate) of its debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of its receivables portfolio (loans and leases with customers and dealers) within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis. In connection with that policy, Cat Financial issues debt with a similar interest rate profile to its receivables, and also uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk exposure to interest rate changes and in some cases to lower its cost of borrowed funds. For more information regarding match funding, please see Note 3 – “Derivative financial instruments and risk management” of Exhibit 13. Also see the Risk to Financial Services Line of Business for general risk associated with our financial products business on pages 17 and 18 of this Form 10-K. 

In managing foreign currency risk for Cat Financial's operations, the objective is to minimize earnings volatility resulting from conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions. This policy allows the use of foreign currency forward and option contracts to address the risk of currency mismatch between the receivable and debt portfolios. None of these foreign currency forward and option contracts are designated as a hedge. 

__________ 

*Indicates the percentage of Cat Financial's total portfolio at December 31, 2008. We define total portfolio as total finance receivables (net of unearned income and allowance for credit losses) plus equipment on operating leases, less accumulated depreciation. For more information on the above and Cat Financial's concentration of credit risk, please refer to Note 8 – “Finance receivables” of Exhibit 13. 

Page 4 

Cat Financial provides financing only when acceptable criteria are met. Credit decisions are based on, among other factors, the customer's credit history, financial strength and equipment application. Cat Financial typically maintains a security interest in retail-financed equipment and requires physical damage insurance coverage on financed equipment. Cat Financial finances a significant portion of Caterpillar dealers' sales and inventory of Caterpillar equipment throughout the world. Cat Financial's competitive position is improved by marketing programs offered in conjunction with Caterpillar and/or Caterpillar dealers. Under these programs, Caterpillar, or the dealer, subsidizes an amount at the outset of the transaction, which Cat Financial then recognizes as revenue over the term of the financing. Transaction processing time and supporting technologies continue to drive Cat Financial in its efforts to respond quickly to customers and improve internal processing efficiencies. We believe Cat Financial's web-based Cat FinancExpressSM transaction processing and information tool currently available in the United States, France, Canada and Australia provides Cat Financial a competitive advantage in those areas. Cat FinancExpressSM is an on-line tool that provides finance quotes, credit decisions and the ability to print the appropriate financial documents for end-user signature, all in a reasonably short time frame. 

Caterpillar Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance. Caterpillar Insurance Company is licensed to conduct property and casualty insurance business in 49 states and the District of Columbia, and as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as well. The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and monitors Caterpillar Insurance Company’s financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. 

Caterpillar Life Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance. Caterpillar Life Insurance Company is licensed to conduct life and accident and health insurance business in 26 states and the District of Columbia, and as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as well. The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and it monitors the financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Caterpillar Life Insurance Company also provides stop loss insurance protection to a Missouri Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust used to fund medical claims of salaried retirees of Caterpillar under the VEBA. 

Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a captive insurance company domiciled in Bermuda and regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd. is a Class 2 insurer (as defined by the Bermuda Insurance Amendment Act of 1995), which primarily insures affiliates and, as such, the Bermuda Monetary Authority requires an Annual Financial Filing for purposes of monitoring compliance with solvency requirements. 

Caterpillar Product Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a warranty company domiciled in Missouri. It conducts a machine extended service contract program in Italy, France and Germany by providing machine extended warranty reimbursement protection to dealers in those countries. 

Caterpillar Insurance Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a Tennessee insurance brokerage company licensed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. It provides brokerage services for all property and casualty and life and health lines of business. 

Caterpillar’s insurance group provides protection for claims under the following programs: 

      ·   Contractual Liability Insurance to Caterpillar, Caterpillar dealers and Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) for extended service contracts (parts and labor) offered by third party dealers and OEMs.     

      ·   Cargo insurance for the worldwide cargo risks of Caterpillar products.     

      ·   Contractors' Equipment Physical Damage Insurance for equipment manufactured by Caterpillar or OEMs, which is leased, rented or sold by third party dealers to customers.     

Page 5 

      ·   General liability, employer's liability, auto liability and property insurance for Caterpillar.     

      ·   Retiree Medical Stop Loss Insurance for medical claims under the VEBA.     

      ·   Brokerage services for property and casualty and life and health business.     

Cat Power Ventures, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, primarily invested equity and took ownership interests in power generation projects throughout the world that utilized Caterpillar power generation equipment. In some cases, these projects also utilized construction and operations and maintenance services that are provided by other Caterpillar subsidiaries. In December 2005, Cat Power Ventures decided that it would no longer invest equity in power generation projects. As a result, Cat Power Ventures has not made any new equity investments in power generation projects and has sold a majority of its project investment portfolio, including divesting its investment interests in Poland and the Dominican Republic in 2008. It continues to hold an equity interest in a project in Tunisia. 

Business Developments in 2008 

Economic and Market Conditions 

Our business, results of operations and financial condition are materially affected by the conditions in the global economy. The global economic crisis and the volatility in the credit and capital markets, which began in 2007, had a significant impact on our 2008 profitability. Overall, the company realized record 2008 sales and revenues of $51.324 billion, with strong sales and revenues and profit per share for the first three quarters of the year. However, due to the deteriorating global economic conditions and the volatility of financial markets, our fourth quarter profit per share of $1.08 was significantly depressed, down 28 percent from the fourth quarter of 2007. While sales and revenues of about $12.923 billion increased $779 million from the fourth quarter of 2007, our fourth quarter profit of $661 million decreased by $314 million from 2007 fourth quarter profit. This was due to the significantly higher manufacturing costs driven by higher material and freight costs, along with manufacturing inefficiencies, as costs did not drop in line with a sharp decline in production volume. Also, we experienced a significant decrease in the profitability of our financial products business as a result of the turbulence in the financial markets. 

As we move forward in 2009, the global economic conditions and key commodity prices have continued to decline significantly, the financial markets remain under stress and our expectations for 2009 have deteriorated. We are projecting 2009 sales and revenues to be in a range of plus or minus 10 percent from $40 billion, down 25 percent from 2008 sales. At $40 billion in sales and revenues in 2009, the company expects to achieve profit of about $2.00 per share or $2.50 per share excluding redundancy costs. We have been rapidly executing our “trough” plans and implementing actions throughout the company to deal with a very challenging global business environment and to reduce costs. Some of the “trough” plans and actions include: 

      ·   Significant reductions in total compensation for executives / senior managers.      

      ·   Voluntary and involuntary employee separations and layoffs.     

      ·   Hiring freezes and suspension of salary increases for most support and management employees.     

      ·   Reduction in indirect expenses of about 15 percent.     

      ·   Significant reduction in capital expenditures.     

      ·   Sharp declines in overtime work.     

      ·   Several facilities have shortened workweeks, and others will or have implemented full and partial plant shutdowns.     

      ·   Shifting more resources to short- and medium-term material cost reduction.     

      ·   Shifting more resources to inventory reduction projects.     

While we expect the full year of 2009 to be very challenging, profit in the first half, and particularly the first quarter will be under severe pressure. In fact, a first quarter loss is possible.  

As a result of the impact of the global economic downturn on our business, many of the expansion plans announced in 2008, some of which are discussed below under Growth Initiatives, are under review and will be implemented based on our spending priorities. 

Page 6 

Financial Results and Stockholder Value 

Full year 2008 results marked the sixth consecutive year of record sales for Caterpillar, including sales and revenues of $51.324 billion and profit of $3.557 billion, or $5.66 per share. In October 2008, Caterpillar marked the milestone achievement of 300 consecutive quarters of paying dividends to stockholders. We also reduced the number of shares outstanding by repurchasing 27.3 million shares in 2008 at a cost of $1.879 billion in support of our Board-authorized $7.5 billion stock repurchase programs approved in February 2007 and to be completed by 2011. As of December 31, 2008, the company had 601,526,641 shares of stock outstanding. On January 26, 2009, the company announced that it would temporarily suspend its stock repurchase program. 

Sustainability 

In 2008, the company continued its efforts in sustainable development and commitment to make sustainable development a "strategic area of improvement" in our enterprise strategy. The company was selected as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) for the eighth consecutive year and has retained the leadership position in the Industrial Engineering sector for the third year. DJSI uses a best-in-class approach designed to identify best practices across the economic, social and environmental dimensions of corporate sustainability. 

Caterpillar Production System (CPS) 

We continued our internal focus on global deployment of CPS with 6 Sigma. Implementation of CPS is fundamental to reaching our 2010 goals to significantly improve product availability and increase inventory turns. We achieved our target assessment score for year-end 2008 and early-hour product quality as well as safety improved dramatically. 

Growth Initiatives 

In 2008, the company made progress toward its goal of continuing expansion of our business in China and other emerging markets and to move toward achieving market leadership. In support of our overall enterprise strategy and Vision 2020, Caterpillar took the following actions during 2008. 

  ·   In January 2008, Caterpillar completed the final steps in the acquisition of the remaining 60 percent equity interest in Shandong Machinery Co. Ltd. (SEM), a leading wheel loader manufacturer in China. The company also announced a multi-million dollar expansion to increase the capacity of SEM, demonstrating its commitment to support its growing customer base in the Chinese construction equipment industry. The investment will allow Caterpillar to meet growing demand and provide a broader product portfolio to wheel loader customers. We are currently planning to expand SEM's production capacity and have purchased land for this purpose. The construction is expected to begin in 2009.     

  ·   In April 2008, Caterpillar expanded its Global Mining business through the acquisition of Lovat Inc. (Lovat), a leading global manufacturer of tunnel boring machines used in the construction of metro, railway, road, sewer, water main, penstock, mine access, high voltage cable and telecommunications tunnels.     

  ·   In June 2008, as part of its strategic plan to increase its manufacturing footprint in the rapidly growing Asia-Pacific region, Caterpillar announced a four-year, $200 million investment to increase manufacturing capacity in India, by significantly increasing production for off-highway trucks made at its facility near Chennai, expanding engine production at its facility in Hosur and increasing India production capability for backhoe loaders. The additional investment demonstrates Caterpillar's commitment to customers in India and the importance of such emerging markets as we build our proven global business model across the Asia-Pacific region, an area that is critical to Caterpillar's 2010 and Vision 2020 goals.     

  ·   Caterpillar also reached an agreement to acquire all of the capital stock of MGE Equipamentos & Serviços Ferroviários Ltda. (MGE), a manufacturer and reconditioner of traction motors, main and auxiliary generators, control equipment and auxiliary components for locomotives and transit cars based in Diadema and Hortolandia in Sao Paulo State, Brazil. In addition, MGE maintains, modernizes and rebuilds transit cars and locomotives. The acquisition of MGE represents an important step in the international growth strategy of Caterpillar's Progress Rail Services Division (Progress Rail) and an important part of Caterpillar's Vision 2020 strategy.     

Page 7 

  ·   Caterpillar also announced the acquisition of certain assets of Gremada Industries, Inc. (Gremada), a leader in the processes of remanufacturing and reclaiming metal parts and components used in transmissions, torque converters and final drives. Gremada provides service support for off-highway equipment used in the mining and petroleum industries, and it has extensive experience providing remanufacturing expertise for equipment used for petroleum drilling applications. Gremada will become part of Caterpillar's Remanufacturing Division, enhancing product and service offerings and increasing strategic focus for remanufacturing in the mining and petroleum industries, supporting Caterpillar’s continued service businesses growth strategy.     

  ·   In August 2008, Caterpillar announced plans to further expand its global business model in China by adding to its China-based research and development (R&D) operations to increase the technical support for products serving markets in China and the rest of the Asia Pacific Region. The city of Wuxi in Jiangsu province was announced as the location for a multi-functional research and development center serving Caterpillar's ventures in China and the rest of the Asia Pacific Region. This additional R&D effort is part of Caterpillar's strategy to support the expanded manufacturing footprint being implemented in China and the growing market demand in emerging markets. The center will be built in multiple phases with the first phase to be complete at the end of 2009.     

  ·   Also in August, Shin Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM) completed the first phase of a share redemption plan whereby SCM redeemed one-half of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.’s shares in SCM. This resulted in Caterpillar owning 67 percent of the renamed entity, Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat Japan).     

  ·   In September 2008, Caterpillar announced it would open a new remanufacturing facility in Singapore, as part of its strategic plan to increase remanufacturing operations and better support the mining market in Asia. The new facility will serve as the regional source for remanufactured major components, including mining truck engines, transmissions, final drives and torque converters and expand Caterpillar's current remanufacturing operations in the Asia-Pacific region. The facility is anticipated to be fully operational by mid-2010.     

  ·   Also in September, Caterpillar expanded on implementation of its long-planned strategy to include core machine assembly operations in its existing component production facility in Tosno, Russia. Caterpillar has manufactured components in Tosno since 2000, exporting those components from Russia to other Caterpillar machine factories in Europe. The hydraulic excavators assembled in Tosno in 2008 are the first core machines Caterpillar has produced in Russia. The Tosno-built machines will be sold to customers in the rapidly expanding Russian market.     

  ·   In October 2008, Caterpillar and Trimble Navigation Limited, the leading innovator in developing technology for mobile and work applications, announced the creation of a new joint venture company and a new distribution agreement. The new company, VirtualSite Solutions, will integrate the deep expertise of both parent companies in the areas of product design and software development to transform the way contractors manage their businesses. The joint venture will create information rich worksites allowing customers to more efficiently and safely manage their equipment fleets, reduce operating costs and improve productivity in the area of fuel consumption, maintenance, worksite productivity and fleet logistics.     

Other 2008 Developments 

  ·   In June 2008, Caterpillar announced a multi-year $1 billion capacity expansion that will position key factories in Illinois and other areas to compete for the long term. The investments will allow Caterpillar to meet continued demand and bolster its global leadership for machines used primarily in mining and large infrastructure applications. In support of this capacity expansion, the company will invest more than $1 billion from 2008 through 2010 in five existing facilities in Illinois (East Peoria, Joliet, Decatur, Aurora and Mossville).     

  ·   In October 2008, to strengthen its world-class product and service offerings, Caterpillar announced a realignment of its machine product and marketing organizations to sharpen customer focus, position the company to achieve its 2010 and Vision 2020 goals and build deep expertise in product development.     

The realigned structure created five end-to-end Machine Business Divisions: Mining, Quarry & Waste (subsequently renamed Quarry & Specialty Industries), Excavation, Earthmoving and Building Construction Products that incorporate design, manufacturing, marketing, sales and product support for the entire value chain. This new structure will increase accountability and drive global growth as well as profitability. 

Page 8 

The alignment also introduced three new regional Distribution Services Divisions within Caterpillar, replacing the company’s existing marketing arms. They will have responsibility for Caterpillar’s total portfolio of business with each dealer, the dealer relationship, dealer development and ensuring the most efficient and effective distribution of Caterpillar machines, engines and parts. 

The new structure also expanded and reorganized Caterpillar’s Motion & Power Control Division into two new divisions. The new Advanced Systems Division will focus on designing and manufacturing critical components and integrated systems—hydraulic, transmission and lower powertrain—while working even more closely with worldwide suppliers to provide these solutions both internally and externally to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). The new Core Components Division will bring together the engineering and supply base for hoses and tubes, filters and common components like tires, bearings, fasteners and seals. Along with undercarriage and ground engaging tools, this new division will bring better business focus to these widely used components. 

Business Combinations 

Information related to acquisitions and alliances appears in Note 25 – “Business Combinations” of Exhibit 13. 

Raw Materials and Component Products 

We source our raw materials and manufactured components from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. These purchases include unformed materials, rough and finished parts. Unformed materials would be a variety of steel products which are then cut or formed to shape and machined in our facilities. Rough parts would be various sized steel and iron castings and forgings which are machined to final specification levels inside our facilities. Finished parts are ready to assemble components which are made to either Caterpillar specifications or to the supplier developed specifications. We machine and assemble some of the components used in our machines, engines and power generation units and to support our after-market Dealer parts sales. We also purchase various goods and services used in production, logistics, offices and product development processes. We maintain global strategic sourcing models to meet our global facilities' production needs while building long term supplier relationships and leveraging enterprise spend. We expect our suppliers to maintain, at all times, industry-leading levels of quality and delivery of raw materials and component products supplied for our machine and engine products. We use a variety of agreements with suppliers to protect our intellectual property and processes to monitor and mitigate risks of the supply base causing a business disruption. The risks monitored include supplier financial viability, business continuity, quality and delivery. 

Order Backlog 

Much of our backlog is in large engines, gas turbines and in mining products. The dollar amount of backlog believed to be firm was approximately $14.7 billion at December 31, 2008, and $17.8 billion at December 31, 2007. Of the total backlog, approximately $2.2 billion at December 31, 2008, and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2007, was not expected to be filled in the following year. Our backlog is generally highest in the first and second quarters because of seasonal buying trends in our industry. As we look forward to 2009, we expect our backlog to ease, particularly in the mining sector, which has begun to experience slowing investment activities due to declining commodity prices. 

Dealers 

Our machines are distributed principally through a worldwide organization of dealers (dealer network), 52 located in the United States and 128 located outside the United States, serving 182 countries and operating 3,537 places of business, including dealer rental outlets. Reciprocating engines are sold principally through the dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in their products. Some of the reciprocating engines manufactured by Perkins are also sold through its worldwide network of 131 distributors located in 172 countries. Most of the electric power generation systems manufactured by FG Wilson are sold through its worldwide network of 157 dealers located in 180 countries. 

These dealers do not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and servicing of our products are the dealers' principal businesses. Turbines and large medium speed reciprocating engines are sold through sales forces employed by the company. At times, these employees are assisted by independent sales representatives. 

Page 9 

The company's relationship with each of its independent dealers is memorialized in a standard sales and service agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, the company grants the dealer the right to purchase and sell its products and to service the products in a specified geographic service territory. Prices to dealers are established by the company after receiving input from dealers on transactional pricing in the marketplace. The company also agrees to defend its intellectual property and to provide warranty and technical support to the dealer. The agreement further grants the dealer a non-exclusive license to use the company's trademarks, service marks and brand names. In some instances a separate trademark agreement exists between the company and a dealer. 

In exchange for these rights, the agreement obligates the dealer to develop and promote the sale of the company's products to current and prospective customers in the dealer's service territory. Each dealer specifically agrees to employ adequate sales and support personnel to market, sell and promote the company's products, demonstrate and exhibit the products, perform the company's product improvement programs, inform the company concerning any features that might affect the safe operation of any of the company's products and maintain detailed books and records of the dealer's financial condition, sales and inventories and make these books and records available at the company's reasonable request. 

These sales and service agreements are terminable at will by either party upon 90 days written notice and provide for termination automatically if the dealer files for bankruptcy protection or upon the occurrence of comparable action seeking protection from creditors. 

Patents and Trademarks  

Our products are sold primarily under the brands "Caterpillar," "CAT," design versions of "CAT" and "Caterpillar," "Solar Turbines," "MaK," "Perkins," "FG Wilson," "Olympian" and “Progress Rail.” We own a number of patents and trademarks, which have been obtained over a period of years and relate to the products we manufacture and the services we provide. These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in the future. We do not regard any of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. 

Research and Development 

We have always placed strong emphasis on product-oriented research and development relating to the development of new or improved machines, engines and major components. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, we spent $1,728 million, $1,404 million and $1,347 million, or 3.4 percent, 3.1 percent and 3.2 percent of our sales and revenues, respectively, on our research and development programs. We expect R&D expenditures in 2009 to decline somewhat from 2008 levels and we will emphasize product development required to meet Tier 4 emissions requirements. 

Employment 

As of December 31, 2008, we employed 112,887 persons of whom 59,378 were located outside the United States. However, due to deteriorating global economic conditions that are having a significant impact on our business, the company is implementing workforce reductions that will reduce the number of employees in 2009. 

In the United States, most of our 53,509 employees are at-will employees and, therefore, not subject to any type of employment contract or agreement. At select business units, certain highly specialized employees have been hired under employment contracts that specify a term of employment and specify pay and other benefits. 

As of December 31, 2008, there were 14,899 U.S. hourly production employees who were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. The United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents 12,262 Caterpillar employees under a six-year central labor agreement that will expire March 1, 2011. The International Association of Machinists represents 2,028 employees under labor agreements that expire on May 23, 2010, and April 30, 2012. 

Outside the United States, the company enters into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. 

Sales 

Sales outside the United States were 67 percent of consolidated sales for 2008, 63 percent for 2007, and 54 percent for 2006. 

Page 10 

Environmental Matters 

The company is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines. Compliance with these existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or global competitive position. 

We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws. When it is reasonably probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the costs are charged against our earnings. In formulating that estimate, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or others. The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not material and is included in the line item “Accrued Expenses” in Statement 2 – “Consolidated Financial Position at December 31” of Exhibit 13. 

We cannot reasonably estimate costs at sites in the very early stages of remediation. Currently, we have a few sites in the very early stages of remediation, and there is no more than a remote chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all sites in the aggregate, will be required. 

Available Information 

The company files electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials; ownership reports for insiders as required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and any other form or report as required. The public may read and copy any materials the company has filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The company maintains an Internet site (www.CAT.com) and copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished with the SEC are available free of charge through our Internet site (www.CAT.com/secfilings) as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. Copies of our board committee charters, our board's Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues, Worldwide Code of Conduct and other corporate governance information are available on our Internet site (www.CAT.com/governance), or upon written request to the Corporate Secretary at 100 NE Adams Street, Peoria, Illinois 61629-7310. 

 Additional company information may be obtained as follows: 

Current information - - 

  ·   phone our Information Hotline - (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 244-2080 (outside U.S. or Canada) to request company publications by mail, listen to a summary of Caterpillar's latest financial results and current outlook, or to request a copy of results by facsimile or mail     

  ·   request, view, or download materials on-line or register for email alerts at www.CAT.com/materialsrequest     

Historical information - -  

  ·   view/download on-line at www.CAT.com/historical   

Page 11 

   Item 1A. Risk Factors.