Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

As a global service business, we operate in multiple foreign currencies and issue debt in the capital markets. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and the impact of interest rate changes. We limit these risks through risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives. For foreign currency exposure, derivatives are used to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. For interest rate exposure, derivatives have been used to manage the related cost of debt.

As a result of using derivative instruments, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, we have a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based on credit ratings and other factors.

We evaluate the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other relevant market risks on our derivative instruments. We periodically determine the potential loss from market risk on our derivative instruments by performing a value-at-risk analysis. Value-at-risk is a statistical model that utilizes historical currency exchange and interest rate data to measure the potential impact on future earnings of our derivative financial instruments. The value-at-risk analysis on our derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2011 indicated that the risk of loss was immaterial.

Foreign Exchange

Our results of operations are subject to risk from the translation to U.S. Dollars of the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations, which are generally denominated in the local currency. The effects of currency exchange rate fluctuation on the translation of our results of operations are discussed in Note 21 of our consolidated financial statements. For the most part, revenue and the expenses associated with that revenue are denominated in the same currency. This minimizes the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates has on our results of operations.

While our agencies conduct business in more than 70 different currencies, our major non-U.S. currency markets are the European Monetary Union, or the EMU, the United Kingdom, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, and Japan. As an integral part of our treasury operations, we centralize our cash and use multicurrency pool arrangements to manage the foreign exchange risk between subsidiaries and their respective treasury centers from which they borrow or invest funds.

In certain circumstances, instead of using a multicurrency pool, operations can borrow or invest on an intercompany basis with a treasury center operating in a different currency. To manage the foreign exchange risk associated with these transactions, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts with third party banks. At December 31, 2011, we had forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding with an aggregate notional principal of $120.8 million mitigating the foreign exchange risk of these intercompany borrowings and investments.

Also, we use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with activities when revenue and operating expenses are not denominated in the same currency. In these instances, amounts are promptly settled or hedged in 

26

the foreign currency market with forward contracts. At December 31, 2011, we had forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding with an aggregate notional principal of $71.6 million related to these activities.

The forward foreign exchange contracts were entered into for the purpose of hedging certain specific currency risks. These risks are primarily the result of the temporary movement of money from one local market to another as part of our cash management program. As a result of these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) which might have occurred if the markets moved favorably.

Interest Rate Risk

From time to time, we issue debt in the capital markets. In 2011, to manage our overall interest cost, we used interest rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt and designated the swaps as a fair value hedge. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our interest rate swaps. At December 31, 2011, there were no interest rate swaps outstanding.

Holders of our convertible notes have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of the notes then outstanding on specific dates in the future. The next date on which holders of our 2032 Notes can put the notes back to us is July 31, 2012 and the next date on which holders of our 2038 Notes can put the notes back to us is June 17, 2013. As we have done on prior occasions, we may offer a supplemental interest payment or other incentives to the noteholders to induce them not to put the convertible notes to us. If we decide to pay a supplemental interest payment, the amount offered would be based on a combination of market factors at the time of the applicable put date, including the price of our common stock, short-term interest rates and a factor for credit risk.

If our outstanding convertible notes are put back to us, based on our current financial condition and expectations, we expect to have sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund any repurchase. Although such borrowings would reduce the amount available under our Credit Agreement to fund our cash requirements, we believe that we have sufficient capacity under these commitments to meet our cash requirements for the normal course of operations after the repurchase. Additionally, if the convertible notes are put back to us, our interest expense will change. The extent, if any, of the increase or decrease in interest expense will depend on the portion of the amount repurchased that was refinanced, when we refinance, the type of instrument we use to refinance and the term of the refinancing.

Even if we were to replace the convertible notes with another form of debt on a dollar-for-dollar basis, it would have no impact on either our debt to capital ratios or our debt to EBITDA ratio. If we were to replace our convertible notes with interest-bearing debt at prevailing rates, this may result in an increase in interest expense that would negatively impact our coverage ratios, such as EBITDA to interest expense. However, the coverage ratios in the Credit Agreement and ratings levels are currently well within the thresholds. If either our ratio of debt to EBITDA was to increase 75% or our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense was to halve, we would still be in compliance with these covenants. Therefore, based on our current coverage ratios, our present expectations of our future operating cash flows and expected access to debt and equity capital markets, we believe any increase in interest expense and reduction in coverage ratios would still place us comfortably above the coverage ratio requirements.

Credit Risk

We provide marketing and corporate communications services to thousands of clients who operate in nearly every industry sector of the global economy and in the normal course of business, we grant credit to qualified clients. Due to the diversified nature of our client base, we do not believe that we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk as our largest client accounted for 2.6% of our 2011 revenue and no other client accounted for more than 2.1% of our 2011 revenue. However, during periods of economic downturn, the credit profiles of our clients could change.

In the normal course of business, we often enter into contractual commitments with media providers and agreements with production companies on behalf of our clients at levels that can substantially exceed the revenue from our services. Many of our agencies purchase media for our clients and act as an agent for a disclosed principal. These commitments are included in accounts payable when the media services are delivered by the media providers. While operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets, many of our contracts with media providers specify that if our client defaults on its payment obligation, then we are not liable to the media providers under the theory of sequential liability until we have been paid for the media by our client. In other countries, we manage our risk in other ways, including evaluating and monitoring our clients’ creditworthiness and in many cases, obtaining credit insurance or requiring payment in advance. Further, in cases where we are committed to a media purchase and it becomes apparent that a client may be unable to pay for the media, options are potentially available to us in the marketplace, in addition to those cited above to mitigate the potential loss, including negotiating with media providers. In addition, our agencies incur production costs on behalf of clients. We usually act as an agent for a disclosed principal in the procurement of these services. We manage the risk 

27

of payment default by the client by having the production companies be subject to sequential liability or requiring at least partial payment in advance from our client. However, the agreements entered into, as well as the production costs incurred, are unique to each client. We have not experienced a material loss related to media purchases or production costs incurred on behalf of our clients. However, the risk of a material loss could significantly increase in a severe economic downturn.

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data