ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

RISKS RELATING TO EDISON INTERNATIONAL

Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or legislation.

SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE's business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. The CPUC regulates SCE's retail operations, and the FERC regulates SCE's wholesale operations. The NRC regulates SCE's nuclear power plants. The construction, planning, and project site identification of SCE's power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to the jurisdiction of the California Energy Commission (for plants 50 MW or greater), and the CPUC. SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE's business could be adversely affected. The process of obtaining licenses and permits from regulatory authorities may be delayed or defeated by concerted community opposition and such delay or defeat would have an adverse effect on SCE's business.

EMG's projects are subject to federal laws and regulations that govern, among other things, transactions by and with purchasers of power, including utility companies, the development and construction of generation facilities, the ownership and operations of generation facilities, and access to transmission. Generation facilities are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the geographical location, zoning, land use and operation of a project. EMG in the course of its business must obtain and periodically renew licenses, permits and approvals for its facilities. The FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, where it determines that potential market power might exist and that the public interest requires mitigation. Independent System Operators and Regional Transmission Operators may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power and to facilitate market functions. EMG is required to surrender emission allowances equal to emissions of specific substances in connection with the operation of its facilities. This may require the purchase of allowances, which are subject to price volatility and which could be unavailable.

This extensive governmental regulation creates significant risks and uncertainties for Edison International's business. Existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE, EMG or their facilities or operations in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on Edison International's business or result in significant additional costs. In addition, regulation adopted via the public initiative process may apply to SCE or EMG, or its facilities or operations in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on Edison International's business or result in significant additional costs.

21
Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and adversely affect them.

Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental regulations and permitting requirements that involve significant and increasing costs and substantial uncertainty. SCE and EMG devote significant resources to environmental monitoring, emissions control equipment, mitigation projects, and emission allowances to comply with existing and anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. However, the current trend is toward more stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive application of environmental regulations. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement greenhouse gas controls could adversely affect operations, particularly of the coal-fired plants. Other environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, disposal of ash, wastewater discharge, and cooling water systems, are also generally becoming more stringent. The continued operation of SCE and EMG facilities, particularly the coal-fired facilities, is expected to require substantial capital expenditures for environmental controls or cessation of operations. Cessation of operations of such coal-fired plants at EMG would have a material adverse effect on EMG. SCE and EMG may also be exposed to risks arising from past, current or future contamination at its former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in its operations. Current and future state laws and regulations in California also could increase the required amount of power that must be procured from renewable resources. For further discussion of the environmental regulations applicable to Edison International and its subsidiaries, see "Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulation of Edison International and Subsidiaries" and "Item 8. SCE Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10. Environmental Developments."

Edison International's liquidity depends on SCE's ability to pay dividends to Edison International and its subsidiaries' payment of tax-allocation payments that may become due to Edison International.

Edison International is a holding company and, as such, it has no operations of its own. Edison International's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of SCE and its ability to make upstream distributions. Prior to paying dividends to Edison International, SCE has financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. SCE and EMG may also owe tax-allocation payments to Edison International under applicable tax-allocation or payment agreements. Financial market and economic conditions may have an adverse effect on Edison International's subsidiaries. See "Risks Relating to SCE" and "Risks Relating to EMG" below for further discussion.

The businesses of Edison International's subsidiaries may be adversely affected by technological developments.

Technological advancements such as energy storage or self generation via solar panels may adversely affect the economics of SCE's business as a regulated utility. Other technological advancements in the area of power production that create or increase the supply of less expensive power, such as shale natural gas extraction technology, may adversely affect EMG's business as an independent merchant power producer. See "Risks Relating to SCE" and "Risks Relating to EMG" below for further discussion.

The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity are dangerous and involve inherent risks of injury to employees and the general public.

Electricity is dangerous for employees and the general public should they come in contact with power lines or electrical equipment. Injuries caused by such contact can subject SCE and EMG to liability that, despite the existence of insurance coverage, can be significant. In the wake of recent natural disasters such as windstorms, which can cause wildfires, pole failures and associated property damage and outages, the CPUC has increased its focus on public safety issues with an emphasis on heightened compliance with construction and operating standards and the potential for penalties being imposed on utilities. Such penalties and liabilities could be significant but are very difficult to predict. The range of possible penalties and liabilities includes amounts that could adversely affect SCE's and EMG's liquidity and results of operations.

RISKS RELATING TO SCE

Regulatory Risks

SCE's financial results depend upon its ability to recover its costs in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates.

SCE's ongoing financial results depend on its ability to recover from its customers in a timely manner its costs, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, through the rates it charges its customers as approved by the CPUC and FERC. SCE's financial results also depend on its ability to earn a reasonable return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. SCE's capital investment plan, increasing procurement of renewable power, increasing environmental regulations, 

22
moderating demand, and the cumulative impact of other public policy requirements, collectively place continuing upward pressure on customer rates. Increases in self generation also reduce the pool of customers from whom fixed costs are recovered, while costs potentially increase due to system modifications that may be necessary to cope with the systemic effects of self-generation. Customers that self-generate their own power do not currently pay most transmission and distribution charges and are only subject to certain non-bypassable charges. The net result is to increase utility rates further for those customers who do not self-generate, which encourages more self generation and further rate increases. If SCE is unable to obtain a sufficient rate increase or to recover material amounts of its costs in rates in a timely manner or recover an adequate return on capital, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For further information on SCE's rate requests, see "Edison International Overview—Management Overview of SCE—2012 General Rate Case" and "—FERC Formula Rates" in the MD&A.

SCE's energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity.

SCE obtains energy, capacity, environmental credits and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants, as well as through contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE's cash flows remain subject to volatility primarily resulting from changes to commodity prices. In addition, SCE is subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance with SCE's procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs.

SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on economic terms or fully recover the costs of hedges through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, which could adversely affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations. See "SCE: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Market Risk Exposures" in the MD&A.

Operating Risks

SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and improving its facilities.

SCE's infrastructure is aging and could pose a risk to system reliability. In order to mitigate this risk, SCE is engaged in one of the largest infrastructure investment programs in its history, which involves multiple large-scale projects in multiple locations. This substantial increase in activity from SCE's historical levels elevates the operational risks and the need for superior execution in its activities. SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage these risks as well as the risks inherent in operating and improving its facilities, the operation of which can be hazardous. SCE's inherent operating risks include such matters as the risks of human performance, workforce capabilities, public opposition to infrastructure projects, delays, environmental mitigation costs, difficulty in estimating costs, system limitations and degradation, and interruptions in necessary supplies. For example, SCE has recently experienced significant additional costs and disruptions in the progress of its Tehachapi Renewable Transmission Project. See "SCE: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Investment Plan" in the MD&A.

SCE's systems and network infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality.

Regulators, such as the NERC, and U.S. Government Departments, including the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security and Energy, have noted that the U.S. national electric grid and other energy infrastructures have potential vulnerabilities to cyber attacks and disruptions and that such cyber threats are becoming increasingly sophisticated and dynamic. SCE's operations require the continuous operation of critical information technology systems and network infrastructure. Although SCE actively monitors developments in this area and is involved in various industry groups and government initiatives, no security measures can completely shield such systems and infrastructure from vulnerabilities to cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality. If SCE's information technology systems security measures were to be breached or a critical system failure were to occur without timely recovery, SCE could be unable to fulfill critical business functions and/or sensitive confidential personal and other data could be compromised, which could adversely affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations. See "Item 1. Business—Southern California Edison Company—Regulation—NERC" for further discussion.

There are inherent risks associated with operating nuclear power generating facilities.

Continued NRC scrutiny of San Onofre may result in additional corrective actions that will increase operations and maintenance costs or require additional capital expenditures.

23
San Onofre is subject to extensive oversight and scrutiny of the NRC. This scrutiny may result in SCE being required to take additional corrective actions and incur increased operations and maintenance expenses or new capital expenditures. If SCE is unable to take effective corrective actions required by the NRC, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon the NRC's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. See "Item 1. Business—Southern California Edison Company—Regulation—Nuclear Power Plant Regulation" for further discussion.

Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident.

Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection which is currently approximately $12.6 billion. SCE and other owners of the San Onofre and Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Stations have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of $375 million per site. If nuclear incident liability claims were to exceed $375 million, the remaining amount would be made up from contributions of approximately $12.2 billion made by all of the nuclear facility owners in the U.S., up to an aggregate total of $12.6 billion. There is no assurance that the CPUC would allow SCE to recover the required contribution made in the case of one or more nuclear incident claims that exceeded $375 million. If this public liability limit of $12.6 billion is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. There can be no assurance of SCE's ability to recover uninsured costs in the event the additional federal appropriations are insufficient. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies—Nuclear Insurance."

Spent fuel storage capacity could be insufficient to permit long-term operation of SCE's nuclear plants.

The U.S. Department of Energy has defaulted on its obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel from commercial nuclear industry participants by January 31, 1998. If SCE or the operator of Palo Verde were unable to arrange and maintain sufficient capacity for interim spent-fuel storage now or in the future, it could hinder the operation of the plants and impair the value of SCE's ownership interests until storage could be obtained, each of which may have a material adverse effect on SCE.

SCE's insurance coverage for wildfires arising from its ordinary operations may not be sufficient and Edison International may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance on SCE's behalf for such occurrences.

Edison International has been experiencing increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from SCE's ordinary operations. In addition, the insurance Edison International has obtained on SCE's behalf for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient. Uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. A loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially and adversely affect Edison International's and SCE's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to Edison International. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10. Environmental Developments."

Financing Risks

As a capital intensive company, SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access the capital markets or the cost of financing were to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations would be adversely affected.

SCE regularly accesses the capital markets to finance its activities and is expected to do so by its regulators as part of its obligation to serve as a regulated utility. SCE's needs for capital for its ongoing infrastructure investment program are substantial. SCE's ability to arrange financing as well as its ability to refinance debt and make scheduled payments of principal and interest are dependent on numerous factors, including SCE's levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, its financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. SCE's failure to obtain additional capital from time to time would have a material adverse effect on SCE's liquidity and operations. See "SCE: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Investment Plan" and "—Historical Segment Cash Flows" in the MD&A.

RISKS RELATING TO EMG

Liquidity Risks

EME and its subsidiaries have significant cash requirements, limited sources of capital and expect to incur substantial losses in 2012 and subsequent years.

At December 31, 2011, EME had corporate cash and cash equivalents of $951 million and $498 million of available 

24
borrowing capacity under its $564 million revolving credit facility maturing in June 2012 and Midwest Generation had cash and cash equivalents of $213 million and $497 million of available borrowing capacity under its $500 million credit facility maturing in June 2012. Subsequent to the end of the fiscal year, EME terminated its revolving credit facility and there can be no assurance that Midwest Generation will be eligible to draw on its credit facility prior to maturity. Any replacements of these credit lines will likely be on less favorable terms and conditions, and there is no assurance that EME will, or will be able to, replace these credit lines or any portion of them.

As of December 31, 2011, EME's consolidated debt was approximately $4.9 billion, of which $1.2 billion was nonrecourse project debt of EME's subsidiaries and the balance was senior unsecured debt of EME. In addition, EME's subsidiaries had $2.6 billion of long-term, power plant lease obligations that are due over a period ranging up to 23 years. Compliance with current and forthcoming environmental requirements will add to EME's near-term liquidity needs.

Unless energy and capacity prices increase, EME expects that it will experience further losses and reductions in cash flow in 2012 and subsequent years. EME's liquidity will be strained by a continuation of recent adverse trends combined with pending debt maturities, higher operating costs and the need to retrofit its coal-fired plants to comply with governmental regulations. EME's and Midwest Generation's deteriorating financial results and below-investment grade credit status may limit their ability to extend or replace credit facilities, including those maturing in 2012, should they choose to do so, and the terms and conditions of any refinancing could be substantially less favorable than those in previous credit facilities, depending on market conditions. In the case of a further downgrade, EME expects that these negative effects would become more pronounced. If cash flow and other means for assuring liquidity are unavailable or insufficient, EME may be unable to complete environmental improvements at its coal plants (which in turn could lead to unit shutdowns) or to pay its senior debt as it matures. If EME's credit facilities are not replaced, EME's ability to hedge its merchant coal exposure or carry out its trading activities may also be limited. The terms of EME's and its subsidiaries' debt instruments may restrict EME's ability to sell assets or incur secured indebtedness, and EME's subsidiaries' debt instruments may limit EME's ability to seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance debt to satisfy liquidity needs. For further discussion, see "EMG: Liquidity and Capital Resources" in the MD&A.

EME receives tax-allocation payments from Edison International only if, and only to the extent that, EME is included in the consolidated tax returns of Edison International and Edison International is able to utilize tax losses and credits generated by EME. EME may be required to make tax-allocation payments to Edison International.

EME's right to receive tax-allocation payments and the amount of and timing of those payments are dependent on the inclusion of EME in the consolidated income tax returns of Edison International and other factors, including the amount of consolidated taxable income and net operating losses of Edison International, and other tax items of EME, its subsidiaries, and other subsidiaries of Edison International. Edison International has not been able to fully utilize EME's consolidated tax losses and credits as a result of accelerated tax deductions taken by the consolidated group under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 and the 2010 Tax Relief Act and SCE's priority over EME in the utilization of available tax benefits. Realization of EME's tax losses and tax credits is not expected to begin again until at least 2013, subject to future changes in tax laws and Edison International's taxable income, and it may take several years before such benefits can be fully utilized. As of December 31, 2011, EME had recorded deferred tax assets of $520 million related to loss carryforwards and unused credits. EME expects to make tax-allocation payments to Edison International during 2012 of approximately $185 million as a result of the reallocation of tax obligations from an expected Edison International consolidated net operating loss in 2011.

These arrangements are subject to the terms of the tax-allocation and payment agreements among Edison International, EME and other Edison International subsidiaries. The agreements under which EME makes and receives tax-allocation payments may be terminated by the immediate parent company at any time, by notice given before the first day of the first year with respect to which the termination is to be effective. However, termination does not relieve any party of any obligations with respect to any tax year beginning prior to the notice. See "EMG: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Intercompany Tax-Allocation Agreement" in the MD&A.

Regulatory and Environmental Risks

The controls imposed on EMG's coal plants as a result of environmental regulations, including the Combined Pollutant Standard may require material expenditures or unit shutdowns.

Capital expenditures relating to required environmental controls for EMG's coal plants (including the CPS, to which all of Midwest Generation's coal-fired generating units are subject) are expected to be significant. In February 2012, EME decided to shut down the Fisk Station by the end of 2012 and the Crawford Station by the end of 2014 and concluded it was less likely to install environmental controls at the Waukegan Station and Joliet Unit 6. EME may ultimately decide to shut down the Waukegan Station and Joliet Unit 6, and possibly other units, rather than make improvements. Unit shutdowns could have 

25
an adverse effect on EMG's business, results of operation and financial condition. For more information about EMG's plans for environmental compliance, see "Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulation of Edison International and Subsidiaries—Air Quality—Nitrogen Oxide and Sulfur Dioxide," "Edison International (Consolidated): Liquidity and Capital Resources—Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies" in the MD&A, and "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10. Environmental Developments."

Market Risks

EMG has substantial interests in merchant energy power plants which are subject to market risks related to wholesale energy prices because they operate without long-term power purchase agreements. Wholesale energy prices have substantially declined in recent years.

EMG's merchant energy power plants do not have long-term power purchase agreements. Because the output of these power plants is not committed to be sold under long-term contracts, these projects are subject to market forces which determine the amount and price of energy, capacity and ancillary services sold from the power plants. Unlike most other commodities, electric power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced when it is to be used. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to significant and unpredictable price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time. Due to the volume of sales into PJM from the coal plants, EMG has concentrated exposure to market conditions and fluctuations in PJM. Prices for power and capacity have declined significantly due largely to lower natural gas prices and have been affected in recent years by increased use of demand response technology, changes in final demand for power during the economic slowdown, and technological developments that have increased access to natural gas shale reserves, resulting in substantial declines in market prices for natural gas which supplies power plants that compete with EMG's coal plants.

Market prices of energy, capacity and ancillary services sold from these power plants are influenced by multiple factors beyond EMG's control, and thus there is considerable uncertainty whether or when current depressed prices will recover. EMG's hedging activities may not cover the entire exposure of its assets or positions to market price volatility, and the level of coverage will vary over time. The effectiveness of EMG's hedging activities may depend on the amount of credit available to post collateral, either in support of performance guarantees or as cash margin, and liquidity requirements may be greater than EMG anticipates or will be able to meet. EMG cannot provide assurance that its hedging strategies will successfully mitigate market risks. For more detail on these matters, see "EMG: Market Risk Exposures—Commodity Price Risk" in the MD&A.

EMG's financial results can be affected by changes in prices, transportation cost, and supply interruptions related to fuel, sorbents, and other commodities used for power generation and emission controls.

In addition to volatile power prices, EMG's business is subject to changes in the cost of fuel, sorbents, and other commodities used for power generation and emission controls, and in the cost of transportation. These costs can be volatile and are influenced by many factors outside of EMG's control. The price at which EMG can sell its energy may not rise or fall at the same rate as a corresponding rise or fall in commodity costs. Operations at the coal plants are dependent upon the availability and affordability of coal which is available only from a limited number of suppliers and which, in the case of Midwest Generation, is transported by rail under a multi-year long-term transportation contract. All of these factors may have an adverse effect on EMG's financial condition and results of operations. See "EMG: Market Risk Exposures—Commodity Price Risk" in the MD&A.

Competition could adversely affect EMG's business

EMG has numerous competitors in all aspects of its business some of whom may have greater liquidity, greater access to credit and other financial resources, lower cost structures, greater ability to withstand losses, larger staffs or more experience than EMG. Multiple participants in the wholesale markets, including many regulated utilities, have a lower cost of capital than most merchant generators and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generation assets without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. These factors could affect EMG's ability to compete effectively in the markets in which those entities operate. Newer plants owned by EMG's competitors are often more efficient than EMG's facilities and may also have lower costs of operation. Over time, some of EMG's merchant facilities may become obsolete in their markets, or be unable to compete with such plants.

Operating Risks

EMG's capital projects may not be successful.

EMG's capital projects are subject to risks including, without limitation, risks related to financing, construction, permitting, 

26
and governmental approvals. EME may be required to spend significant amounts before it can determine whether a project is feasible or economically attractive. The timing of such projects may be delayed beyond the date that equipment is ready for installation, in which case EMG may be required to incur material equipment and/or material costs with no deployment plan at delivery. Due to competing capital needs, EMG's further development of its renewable business will depend upon the availability of third-party equity capital.

EMG's projects may be affected by general operating risks and hazards customary in the power generation industry. EMG may not have adequate insurance to cover all these hazards.

The operation of power generation facilities is a potentially dangerous activity that involves many operating risks, including transmission disruptions and constraints, equipment failures or shortages, and system limitations, degradation and interruption. EMG's operations are also subject to risks of human performance and workforce capabilities. There can be no assurance that EMG's insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or protect against all hazards to which EMG may be subject, or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms similar to those presently available, or at all. EMG has a number of older facilities that are subject to higher risks of failure or outage, and EMG has in the past experienced serial defects in certain models of wind turbines deployed at its wind projects.

Uncertainties in EMG's future operations could affect its ability to attract and retain skilled people.

Uncertainties concerning EMG's future operations could affect its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with experience in the energy industry. If EMG is unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, its results of operations will be negatively affected.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES