Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information described under the caption “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this report.  

OVERVIEW  

We are a developer, manufacturer and supplier of medical imaging systems and diagnostic and surgical products focused on the healthcare needs of women. Our core business segments are focused on breast health, diagnostics, GYN surgical and skeletal health.  

Historically, we have developed, manufactured and marketed products focused on mammography, breast care and osteoporosis assessment. We have historically focused our resources on developing systems and subsystems offering superior image quality and diagnostic accuracy, which has enabled us to capture significant market share and customer loyalty, despite the presence of large competitors. Our merger with Cytyc in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 enabled us to benefit from Cytyc’s strengths in the fields of obstetrics, gynecology, radiation oncology and minimally invasive surgery.  

Our breast health products include a broad portfolio of breast imaging and related products and accessories, including digital and film-based mammography systems, computer-aided detection (“CAD”), minimally invasive breast biopsy and tissue extraction devices, breast biopsy guidance systems, breast imaging comfort pads, and breast brachytherapy products. We have also developed a new breast imaging platform, “Dimensions”, which utilizes a new technology, tomosynthesis, to produce three dimensional (“3D”) images, as well as conventional two dimensional (“2D”) full field digital mammography (FFDM) images. In the U.S., our Dimensions product has been approved by the FDA for providing conventional 2D images, and we are conducting further clinical trials to support our PMA application for the 3D configuration. Our Dimensions platform received CE mark approval in Europe in fiscal 2008 and Canadian registration in March 2009, both for 2D and 3D modes of imaging. Currently, we cannot determine the timing of FDA approval for our 3D configuration, if at all. We also sell breast biopsy products, and within our breast brachytherapy products is our MammoSite System, which  

41  

Table of Contents 

 provides accelerated partial breast irradiation technology. We received FDA clearance for our MammoSite ML radiation therapy system, which is a multi-lumen device that provides the oncologist with additional flexibility in specifically targeting radiation in the tissue where cancer is most likely to recur, on August 27, 2009.  

Our diagnostic products include the ThinPrep System, which is primarily used in cytology testing applications, such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test, which assists physicians in assessing risk of pre-term birth. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we acquired Third Wave Technologies, Inc. (“Third Wave”) a company that develops and markets molecular diagnostic reagents for a wide variety of DNA and RNA analysis applications based on its proprietary Invader chemistry. Our current clinical diagnostic offerings based upon this Invader chemistry include products to assist in the diagnosis of human papillomavirus (“HPV”), cystic fibrosis, cardiovascular risk and other diseases. We received FDA approval of Cervista HPV High Risk (“HR”) and Cervista HPV 16/18 tests in March 2009 as well as CE mark approval in Europe in January 2009 for Cervista HPV HR and in May 2009 for Cervista HPV 16/18.  

Our GYN surgical products are made up of the NovaSure System and the Adiana Permanent Contraception System (“Adiana System”). The Novasure System enables physicians to treat women suffering from excessive menstrual bleeding in a minimally invasive manner in order to eliminate or reduce their bleeding. The Adiana System is a form of permanent female contraception intended as an alternative to tubal ligation. We received FDA approval of the Adiana System in July 2009 and CE mark approval in Europe in 2008. Our revenues from the Adiana System have been modest to date as both the U.S. and international market launches were limited.  

Our skeletal health products primarily consist of dual-energy X-ray bone densitometry systems, an ultrasound-based osteoporosis assessment product, our Fluoroscan mini C-arm imaging product and our Esaote line of extremity Magnetic Resonance Imaging (“MRI”) systems that were manufactured by an original equipment manufacturer.  

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS  

Market acceptance of our medical products in the United States and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patient’s medical expenses by government healthcare programs, private insurers or other healthcare payors. Since the end of calendar 2008, the uncertainty surrounding world financial markets and deteriorating worldwide macroeconomic conditions have caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. Additionally, constrictions in world credit markets have caused and continue to cause our customers to experience increased difficulty securing the financing necessary to purchase our products. Economic uncertainty has and may continue to result in cost-conscious consumers focusing on acute care rather than wellness, which could adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. Furthermore, governments and other third party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely effect sales of our products. If the current adverse economic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted.  

In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including efforts at national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. We anticipate that the current administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. Public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. At this time, we cannot predict which, if any, healthcare reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on our business. Healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the United States and in many foreign countries could:  

   •    limit the use of our products and treatments;  

42  

Table of Contents 

   •    reduce reimbursement available for such use; or  

   •    adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted.  

These reforms or cost containment measures, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business and prospects.  

As we operate in a highly regulated industry, other governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including, without limitation: new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and treatments and result in lost market opportunity; changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products and treatments to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products or treatments, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices; and changes in the tax laws relating to our operations, including those associated with proposed health care reform, such as the tax proposal included in the health-care reform bill recently approved by the Finance Committee of the U.S. Senate that would assess an annual tax on the revenue of medical device manufacturers based upon market share, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  

Professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities from time to time. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related therapies. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. Recommendations, guidelines or studies that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased use of our products. For example, recently, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists changed their recommendations for pap smear screening, and the United States Preventive Services Task Force changed their recommendations for mammography screening. These new recommendations, if implemented, could significantly reduce the amount of screening using our ThinPrep, mammography and related products and adversely affect the sale of those products.  

During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the value of the U.S. dollar strengthened against the value of many foreign currencies and remained at this strengthened position throughout our second quarter of fiscal 2009. However, in our fiscal third quarter, the dollar weakened slightly and continued to weaken in the fourth quarter. A majority of our sales to international dealers are denominated in U.S. dollars. The ongoing fluctuations of the value of the U.S. dollar may cause our products to be less competitive in international markets and may impact sales and margins over time. In addition, we have international sales, principally in our Diagnostics segment, that are denominated in foreign currencies. The value of these sales is also impacted by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar. Given the uncertainty in the worldwide financial markets, foreign currency fluctuations may be significant in the future, and if the U.S. dollar strengthens, we may experience a material adverse effect on our international sales and margins.  

43  

Table of Contents 

ACQUISITIONS  

Fiscal 2008 Acquisitions:  

Third Wave Technologies, Inc.  

On July 24, 2008, we completed our acquisition of Third Wave pursuant to a definitive agreement dated June 8, 2008. We paid $11.25 per share of Third Wave, for an estimated aggregate purchase price of $591.1 million, including $8.1 million for the estimated fair value of fully vested stock-based awards and $7.6 million in acquisition-related expenses. We concluded that the acquisition of Third Wave did not represent a material business combination and therefore no pro forma financial information has been provided herein. Our results of operations include the results of Third Wave since the acquisition date, as a component of our Diagnostics reporting segment.  

Our acquisition of Third Wave was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and the total purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on our estimate of their fair values as of the date of the acquisition. The excess of purchase price over those fair values was recorded as goodwill. As a result of this acquisition, we recorded a $195.2 million charge for acquired in-process research and development in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and we have recorded additional amortization expense for the acquired intangible assets and additional interest expense on the funds we borrowed to complete the acquisition in both fiscal 2009 and 2008.  

The allocation of the purchase price was based upon preliminary estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of July 24, 2008. We finalized the allocation of the purchase price in fiscal 2009 once we had all necessary information to complete our estimates. The purchase price in excess of net tangible assets acquired was allocated to identifiable intangible assets, including in-process research and development, based upon a detailed valuation that relies on information and assumptions further described below. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was allocated to goodwill.  

As part of the preliminary purchase price allocation, $195.2 million of the purchase price was allocated to acquired in-process research and development projects. The amounts allocated to acquired in-process research and development represents programs for which some research and development has been completed, but technological feasibility has not been determined or FDA approval is pending. The amount allocated to acquired in-process research and development represents the estimated fair value based on risk-adjusted cash flows related to these projects using a discount rate of 20%. The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility of these projects was obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products. The fair value attributable to these in-process projects was expensed at the time of the acquisition. If the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial benefits expected for these projects or for the transaction as a whole.  

The most significant acquired in-process technology related to the Cervista HPV HR screening, for which we estimated a value of $151.2 million. At the time of, and subsequent to the acquisition, we sold HPV reagents that detect certain high risk HPV types as Analyte Specific Reagents (“ASRs”). In 2006, Third Wave began clinical trials for PMA submissions to the FDA for Cervista HPV HR. Third Wave submitted the PMAs in April 2008 and received FDA approval in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Since receiving FDA approval, we have begun to transition to only selling HPV IVDs and expect to complete this transition by the end of fiscal 2010. The HPV in-process research and development related only to the HPV IVDs and the HPV ASRs were valued as developed technology.  

The estimated cost to complete Third Wave’s remaining in-process research and development projects as of September 26, 2009 in the aggregate was $4.0 million.  

44  

Table of Contents 

On July 17, 2008, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and certain other lenders and borrowed $540.0 million under that facility to finance our acquisition of Third Wave.  

Cytyc Corporation  

On October 22, 2007, we completed our merger with Cytyc, pursuant to which Cytyc became our wholly-owned subsidiary. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Cytyc shareholders received 1.04 shares of our common stock and $16.50 in cash for each share of Cytyc common stock held by them. The aggregate consideration we paid for Cytyc, including liabilities assumed in connection with the transaction, was $6.2 billion comprised as follows:  

   •    merger consideration paid to the former Cytyc stockholders of $5.8 billion, consisting of approximately $2.1 billion in cash and approximately 132.0 million shares of our common stock with an estimated fair value of approximately $3.7 billion;  

   •    16.5 million of fully vested stock options issued upon conversion of Cytyc stock options with an estimated fair value of approximately $241.4 million;  

   •    the assumption of obligations of Cytyc under its 2.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2024 with a principal amount outstanding as of October 22, 2007 of approximately $73.0 million and an estimated fair value of approximately $125.0 million; and  

   •    direct acquisition costs of $24.2 million.  

In connection with the merger, we entered into a credit agreement relating to a senior secured credit facility with Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and certain other lenders, in which the lenders committed to provide, in the aggregate, senior secured financing of up to approximately $2.55 billion to pay for the cash portion of the merger consideration, for repayment of existing debt of Cytyc, for expenses relating to the merger and for working capital following the completion of the merger. As of the closing of the merger, we borrowed $2.35 billion under the credit facility. In December 2007, we refinanced a substantial portion of this credit facility through the issuance of 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2037 in the principal amount of $1.725 billion. On July 17, 2008, after having paid off all outstanding term loans under the credit facility, we amended and restated the credit facility to finance our acquisition of Third Wave.  

Our merger with Cytyc was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and we were considered to be the acquirer of Cytyc for accounting purposes. Our results of operations after completion of the merger include the operations of Cytyc. As a result of the acquisition, we recorded an in-process research and development of $370 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, and we have recorded increased amortization expense for the acquired intangible assets and additional interest on the funds we borrowed to complete the merger in both fiscal 2009 and 2008.  

We have allocated the purchase price for our merger with Cytyc to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on our estimate of their estimated fair values. We then allocated the purchase price in excess of net tangible assets acquired to identifiable intangible assets, including in-process research and development, based upon a detailed valuation that relies on information and assumptions further described below. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was allocated to goodwill.  

Identifiable Intangible Assets  

As part of the purchase price allocation, we determined that Cytyc’s identifiable intangible assets include existing technology, customer relationships and trade names. Cytyc’s existing technology relates to patents, patent applications and know-how with respect to the technologies embedded in its currently marketed products.  

45  

Table of Contents 

 In determining the allocation of the purchase price to existing technology, consideration was only given to patent and patent applications that relate to products that have been approved by the FDA. Cytyc’s customer relationship assets relate to relationships that Cytyc’s sales force has developed with OB/GYNS, breast surgeons, clinical laboratories and other physicians. The trade names relate to both the Cytyc name as well as key product names.  

We used the income approach to value the existing technology and marketing based intangibles. This approach calculates fair value by discounting the after-tax cash flows back to a present value. The baseline data for this analysis was the cash flow estimates used to price the transaction. Cash flows were forecasted for each intangible asset, and then discounted based on an appropriate discount rate. The discount rates applied were benchmarked with reference to the implied rate of return from the transaction model as well as Cytyc’s weighted average cost of capital based on the capital asset pricing model.  

In estimating the useful life of the acquired assets, we considered ASC 350, Intangible—Goodwill and Other, Subsection 30-35-3 (formerly paragraph 11 of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets), which lists the pertinent factors to be considered when estimating the useful life of an intangible asset. These factors included a review of the expected use by the combined company of the assets acquired, the expected useful life of another asset (or group of assets) related to the acquired assets, legal, regulatory or other contractual provisions that may limit the useful life of an acquired asset or may enable the extension of the useful life of an acquired asset without substantial cost, the effects of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors, and the level of maintenance expenditures required to obtain the expected future cash flows from the asset. We are amortizing these intangible assets over their estimated useful lives either using a method that is based on estimated future cash flows as we believe this will approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets will be utilized, or on a straightline basis if those cash flows are not reliably determinable.  

Acquired In-Process Research and Development  

As part of the purchase price allocation for our merger with Cytyc, we allocated approximately $370 million of the purchase price to acquired in-process research and development projects. The amount allocated to acquired in-process research and development represented the estimated fair value based on risk-adjusted cash flows related to in-process projects that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future uses as of the date of the merger. The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility of these projects was obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products. The fair value attributable to these in-process projects was expensed at the time of the merger. If the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial benefits expected for these projects or for the transaction as a whole.  

The fair value assigned to acquired in-process research and development was determined by estimating the costs to develop the acquired technology into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the projects, and discounting the net cash flows to their present value. The revenue projections used to value the acquired in-process research and development was based on estimates of relevant market sizes and growth factors, expected trends in technology, and the nature and expected timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors. The resulting net cash flows from such projects were based on our estimates of cost of sales, operating expenses, and income taxes from such projects.  

The rates utilized to discount the net cash flows to their present value were based on estimated cost of capital calculations and the implied rate of return from the transaction model plus a risk premium. Due to the nature of the forecasts and the risks associated with the developmental projects, appropriate risk-adjusted discount rates were used for the in-process research and development projects. The discount rates are based on the stage of completion and uncertainties surrounding the successful development of the purchased in-process technology projects.  

46  

Table of Contents 

The acquired in-process research and development of Cytyc related to the following research and development projects: Adiana System and expanded labeling of the NovaSure System, Gestiva, the ThinPrep Imaging System, the ThinPrep Processor and Helica.  

The most significant acquired in-process technology related to the Adiana System for which we estimated a value of approximately $220.0 million. The system is an incisionless trans-cervical permanent sterilization device intended to be used during an office or hospital based procedure. In January 2008, the FDA requested an additional year of clinical trial data for the product, and in July 2009, we received FDA approval for the product. 

On January 16, 2008, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our rights to Gestiva, a drug being developed to be used in the prevention of preterm birth in pregnant women with a history of spontaneous preterm birth, to K-V Pharmaceutical Company for a total purchase price of $82.0 million. A portion of the purchase price is to be paid upon final approval by the FDA of a Gestiva New Drug Application (“NDA”) on or before February 19, 2010 and the production of a quantity of Gestiva suitable to enable the commercial launch of the product. Either party has the right to terminate the agreement if FDA approval is not obtained by February 19, 2010. In fiscal 2008, we received $9.5 million of the purchase price, and the balance is due upon the satisfaction of the above conditions. We have agreed to continue our efforts to obtain FDA approval of the NDA for Gestiva as part of this arrangement, for which we are being reimbursed by K-V Pharmaceutical. All costs incurred in these efforts are to be reimbursed by K-V Pharmaceutical and are being recorded as a credit against research and development expenses. We have recorded the $9.5 million as a deferred gain within current liabilities of our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We expect the gain will be recognized upon the closing of the transaction following final FDA approval of the Gestiva NDA or if the agreement is terminated. We had allocated $53.4 million to acquired in-process research for this product as part of the initial purchase price allocation. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain the requisite FDA approval, that the transaction will be completed or that we will receive the balance of the purchase price. Moreover, if K-V Pharmaceutical terminates the agreement as a result of our breach of a material representation, warranty, covenant or agreement, we will be required to return the funds previously received by us as well as expenses reimbursed to us by K-V.  

Subsequent to the merger with Cytyc, we decided to discontinue the development of Cytyc’s Helica Thermal Coagulator System product. We will not incur any further costs or realize any future cash flows from this product. Our intangible asset valuation for Cytyc included $2.9 million related to customer relationships for Helica. As a result of the Helica product discontinuation, we recorded an impairment charge of $2.9 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2008.  

The other in-process research and development projects we acquired in our merger with Cytyc were at different stages of development, ranging from the early stages of development to Phase IIb prototype building, ongoing clinical trials and submission to the FDA of PMA and drug applications. FDA approval or clearance had not been granted for any of the products classified as in-process research and development, nor had Cytyc received any foreign approvals or clearances for any of these products. All products classified as in-process research and development require various levels of in-house and external testing, clinical trials and approvals from the FDA before these future products can be marketed. The estimated cash requirements to complete the remaining products as of September 26, 2009 were expected to be approximately $3.8 million.  

The successful development of new products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, including, unanticipated delays, access to capital, budget overruns, technical problems and other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products and enhancements, including, for example changes requested by the FDA in connection with PMA or NDA applications for products or 510(k) notification. Given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction, we cannot provide assurance that any of our product development efforts will be successful on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. Our failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget could harm our results of operations and financial condition.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Goodwill  

The purchase price allocation for Cytyc initially resulted in goodwill of approximately $3.8 billion. The factors contributing to the recognition of this amount of goodwill were based upon several strategic and synergistic benefits that were expected to be realized from the combination. These benefits include the expectation that our complementary products and technologies will create a leading women’s healthcare company with an enhanced presence in hospitals, private practices and healthcare organizations. We also expected to realize substantial synergies through the use of Cytyc’s OB/GYN and breast surgeon sales channel to cross-sell our existing and future products. Our merger with Cytyc provided us broader channel coverage within the United States and expanded geographic reach internationally, as well as increased scale and scope for further expanding operations through product development and complementary strategic transactions.  

As a result of the Company’s interim impairment analysis of goodwill as of December 27, 2008, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $2.34 billion related to the goodwill from the merger with Cytyc. See the Critical Accounting Policies below for additional information pertaining to the interim impairment analysis of the Company’s goodwill.  

Fiscal 2007 Acquisition:  

BioLucent, Inc.  

On September 18, 2007, we completed the acquisition of BioLucent, Inc. (“BioLucent”) pursuant to a definitive agreement dated June 20, 2007. We have concluded that the acquisition of BioLucent does not represent a material business combination and therefore no pro forma financial information has been provided herein. BioLucent, previously located in Aliso Viejo, California, develops, markets and sells MammoPad breast cushions to decrease the discomfort associated with mammography. Prior to the acquisition, BioLucent’s primary research and development efforts were directed at its brachytherapy business, which was focused on breast cancer therapy. Prior to the acquisition, BioLucent spun-off its brachytherapy technology and business to the holders of BioLucent’s outstanding shares of capital stock. As a result, we only acquired BioLucent’s MammoPad cushion business and related assets. We invested $1 million directly in the spun-off brachytherapy business in exchange for shares of preferred stock issued by the new business.  

The aggregate purchase price for BioLucent was $73.2 million, consisting of $6.8 million in cash and issuance of 2.3 million shares of our common stock valued at $63.2 million, debt assumed and paid off of $1.6 million and $1.6 million for acquisition related fees and expenses. The acquisition also provided for up to two annual earn-out payments not to exceed $15.0 million in the aggregate based on BioLucent’s achievement of certain revenue targets. We considered the provision of EITF Issue No. 95-8, Accounting for Contingent Consideration Paid to the Shareholders of an Acquired Enterprise in a Purchase Business Combination, and concluded that this contingent consideration will represent additional purchase price. As a result, goodwill will be increased by the amount of the additional consideration, if any, when it becomes due and payable. As of September 26, 2009, we have not recorded any amounts for these potential earn-outs.  

48  

Table of Contents 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by items as shown in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. All dollar amounts in tables are presented in thousands.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal Year Ended September 26, 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 27, 2008  

Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

49  

Table of Contents 

In fiscal 2009, our product sales decreased 5% compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a $178.2 million decrease in revenues from our Breast Health products and, to a lesser extent, a $10.7 million decrease in revenues from our Skeletal Health products, partially offset by increased revenues in our Diagnostics and GYN Surgical segments of $69.5 million and $43.9 million, respectively. These increases were due in part to a full year of revenue for these segments in fiscal 2009 compared to the inclusion of only 49 weeks of operating results for fiscal 2008 as we acquired these segments with the Cytyc merger on October 22, 2007. Included in the increased Diagnostics’ revenue is additional revenue from Third Wave of $31.2 million. We acquired Third Wave in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and as such had a full year of revenue in fiscal 2009 compared to 11 weeks in fiscal 2008.  

Breast Health product sales decreased 24% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a $150.0 million decrease in digital mammography systems sales caused primarily by a reduction in the number of Selenia full field mammography systems and related components, including our CAD software, sold domestically, and to a lesser extent, internationally. In addition, we have seen a slight deterioration of average selling prices, both domestically and internationally, driven by the current economic environment for capital purchases, and less expensive configurations of the units being sold. Also contributing to the decrease was a $15.6 million decrease in multicare stereotactic table sales primarily attributable to a decrease in the number of systems sold, principally in the U.S. We attribute the decline in sales of breast health capital equipment and related products primarily to the more difficult economic and capital spending environment. We also experienced a decline in our MammoSite single-lumen products of $10.2 million due to increased competition as a result of lower reimbursement rates compared to multi-lumen products. We received FDA clearance for our multi-lumen product on August 27, 2009, which we expect will improve our competitive position. Partially offsetting the declines in sales referenced above was an $18.2 million increase in revenues from our breast biopsy products.  

Diagnostics product sales, which include ThinPrep, Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test and our Third Wave products, increased 15% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. This increase was primarily due to the addition of Third Wave revenues of $37.1 million in fiscal 2009 compared to $5.9 million in fiscal 2008 and, to a lesser extent, an increase in the number of ThinPrep Pap Tests. The increase in fiscal 2009 is also due to the inclusion of Cytyc’s results for the full fiscal year versus 49 weeks in fiscal 2008. While we received FDA approval of the Cervista HPV HR and Cervista HPV 16/18 tests in March 2009, the revenue contribution has been modest in fiscal 2009.  

GYN Surgical product sales, which include our NovaSure System and Adiana System, increased 20% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. This increase was primarily due to a significant increase in the number of NovaSure systems sold. The increase is also due to the inclusion of GYN Surgical’s revenue for the full fiscal year versus 49 weeks in fiscal 2008. Revenues from the Adiana System, which we received FDA approval on July 6, 2009, have been modest as the US and international market launches have been limited. We recently transferred the manufacturing of our Adiana System to our new manufacturing facility in Coyol, Costa Rica, and we are in the process of ramping up production to support the full scale launch of this product. We could incur delays and unanticipated costs in connection with our transfer and ramping up these manufacturing operations in our new facility that could delay our full scale launch of the Adiana System.  

Skeletal Health product sales decreased 14% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a $5.8 million decrease in osteoporosis assessment product sales caused primarily by a decrease in the number of bone densitometry systems sold worldwide and lower average selling prices. This product line continues to face a difficult capital equipment environment in the U.S. and the ongoing effects of the reduction in reimbursement for osteoporosis assessment exams in the U.S. In addition, we experienced a reduction in revenues of $2.8 million in mini-C arm sales and a decrease in extremity MRI sales of $2.1 million. The decrease in mini-C arm and extremity MRI sales was due to a decrease in the number of systems sold.  

In fiscal 2009 and 2008, approximately 80% of product sales were generated in the U.S., 12% in Europe, 4% in Asia, and 4% in other international markets.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues is primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. Service and other revenues increased 22% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, primarily in our Breast Health segment, due to an increase in the number of service contracts executed driven by an increase in the installed base of our full field digital mammography systems and detectors.  

Cost of Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Product sales gross margin decreased to 56% in fiscal 2009 compared to 58% in fiscal 2008 primarily due to the significant increase in intangible asset amortization expense of $60.2 million, partially offset by the increase in sales of our higher gross margin disposable products in our Diagnostics and GYN Surgical segments.  

Cost of Product Sales. The cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales in fiscal 2009 was 33% compared to 36% in fiscal 2008. This improvement was primarily attributable to the increase in sales of our Diagnostics and GYN Surgical segments as a percentage of our total product sales as these products have a lower product cost as a percent of revenue compared to our Breast Health and Skeletal Health products. In addition, our cost of product sales in fiscal 2008 included additional costs associated with the write-up of acquired inventory to fair value in purchase accounting of $42.4 million related to the merger with Cytyc and $3.9 million related to the Third Wave acquisition. In fiscal 2009, the impact of these costs was only $1.2 million related to the Third Wave inventory write-up. Our margins in fiscal 2009 were also positively impacted by our cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of 2009, which included securing lower material costs from our vendors. Partially offsetting these improvements, was a decrease in gross margin in our Breast Health segment, primarily attributable to lower absorption of manufacturing costs due to lower volumes and to a lesser extent, a slight deterioration of average selling prices, driven by the current economic environment for capital purchases, and less expensive configurations of the units being sold.  

Fiscal 2009 and 2008 cost of product sales included charges of $0.7 million and $4.5 million, respectively, for impairment of MRI inventory and a related purchase obligation, which was fulfilled in fiscal 2009.  

Cost of Product Sales—Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets relates to acquired developed technology, which are generally being amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 15 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the  

51  

Table of Contents 

 economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. The increase in amortization expense is due partly to the method of recognition based on expected economic benefits of the underlying assets, primarily related to the intangible assets acquired in the merger with Cytyc, which increased to $133.2 million from $80.2 million in fiscal 2008, and a full year of Third Wave related amortization of $7.8 million compared to $1.1 million in fiscal 2008.  

Cost of Product Sales—Impairment of Intangible Assets. During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we decided to discontinue selling a certain product acquired in the Third Wave acquisition as a result of communications from the FDA in the second quarter of 2009 regarding the approval process. This decision was an indicator of impairment, and we performed an impairment test, which indicated the undiscounted cash flows the asset group would generate over its remaining estimated useful life would not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the asset group. Due to the insufficient cash flows to be generated, the Company determined that the related asset group’s fair value was de minimus and recorded an impairment charge of $4.1 million comprised of developed technology of $2.6 million and capitalized license fees of $1.5 million.  

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues gross margin has improved to 29% in fiscal 2009 from 12% in fiscal 2008 due in part to the improved absorption of fixed service costs and the continued growth of service contract revenue, primarily in the Breast Health segment. We have increased the number of service contracts due to our increased installed base of our full field digital mammography systems and detectors. In addition, warranty costs have decreased due to lower failure rates in our products.  

Operating Expenses.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 16% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. These increases were primarily due to a full year of expenses of $20.7 million related to Third Wave compared to $3.7 million in fiscal 2008, and to a lesser extent a full year of operations from Cytyc in  

52  

Table of Contents 

 fiscal 2009 compared to 49 weeks in fiscal 2008. In addition, there was an increase in expenses related to the anticipated launch of the Adiana System and additional clinical spending for a number of projects. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in related headcount, bonus and other discretionary areas resulting from a number of cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of 2009. In fiscal 2008, we recorded a $1.8 million charge related to a change in control payment associated with the merger with Cytyc. We expect research and development expenses to increase in fiscal 2010 as we conduct additional clinical trials and research to obtain FDA approval for our tomosynthesis product (Dimensions 3D) and continue our efforts to improve our existing products and develop next generation products.  

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses decreased 9% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to lower commission expenses as a result of lower product revenues, lower bonuses driven by the Company’s operating results, reduced advertising and trade show expenditures, and other cost reductions including lower employee headcount resulting from our cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of 2009. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $6.8 million related to the inclusion of a full year of operations of Third Wave, as well as a full year of operations from Cytyc in fiscal 2009 compared to 49 weeks in fiscal 2008.  

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased slightly in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. The increase in the current year is primarily due to an increase of $7.4 million related to the inclusion of a full year of operations of Third Wave, as well as a full year of operations from Cytyc in fiscal 2009 compared to 49 weeks in fiscal 2008. In addition, stock-based compensation expense was higher by $5.2 million in fiscal 2009. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in bonus, headcount and related compensation, and other expenses as a result of our cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of 2009.  

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships and trade names related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. The increases in these costs primarily relate to additional Cytyc-related amortization based on the pattern of economic benefit.  

Impairment of Goodwill. Based upon a combination of factors, including the deteriorating macro-economic environment, declines in the stock market and the decline of our market capitalization significantly below the book value of our net assets, we concluded that potential goodwill impairment indicators existed as of December 27, 2008. As a result, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis as of December 27, 2008. Step 1 of the impairment analysis indicated that the carrying value of the net assets of certain of our reporting units, acquired in connection with the Cytyc acquisition, exceeded the estimated fair value of those reporting units. As a result, we were required to complete Step 2 of the impairment analysis to determine the amount, if any, of goodwill impairment charges. We completed Step 2 of this analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $2.34 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Refer to Note 2 in our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information. We completed our fiscal 2009 annual goodwill impairment analysis as of the first day of our fourth quarter and no additional impairments were recorded.  

Impairment of Intangible Assets. Subsequent to the merger with Cytyc, we discontinued the development of Cytyc’s Helica Thermal Coagulator System product, used for the treatment of endometriosis. We will not realize any future cash flows from this product. Our intangible asset valuation for Cytyc included approximately $2.9 million related to customer relationships for Helica. As a result of the Helica product discontinuation, we recorded an impairment charge of $2.9 million in fiscal 2008.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Acquired In-Process Research and Development Expenses. The $565.2 million charge for in-process research and development expense is comprised of a $370.0 million charge recorded in connection with our merger with Cytyc and a $195.2 million charge recorded in connection with the Third Wave acquisition. Both of these charges are described in further detail above under the respective acquisitions.  

Restructuring Charges. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we closed our manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China due to Chinese government requirements to move the facility. This facility, which manufactured organic photoconductor drum coatings, was acquired in connection with the AEG acquisition in 2006, and contributed approximately $9.7 million of revenue to our Breast Health business in fiscal 2009. In connection with this action, we recorded severance benefits and other costs of $0.8 million. The majority of employees were terminated and all termination benefits were paid as of September 26, 2009. Additional clean-up and closure costs will be recorded in fiscal 2010, however, we do not expect these costs to be material to our consolidated financial statements. Other costs were recorded in connection with this closure of $1.9 million primarily related to the impairment of manufacturing equipment, accelerated depreciation expense, and the write-off of inventory, all of which was recorded in cost of product sales. During the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded $6.4 million in compensation charges, including $1.9 million in stock-based compensation, related to the resignation of our former Executive Chairman, which was effective May 20, 2008. The cash payments were made during fiscal 2008.  

Interest Income.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest income decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to a decline in interest rates.  

Interest Expense.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest expense consists primarily of the interest costs and the related amortization of deferred financing costs for both our senior secured credit agreement entered into on October 22, 2007 in connection with the merger with Cytyc and amended on July 17, 2008 in connection with the Third Wave acquisition and our 2.0% Convertible Notes that were issued in December 2007 to pay down a portion of the term loans, which had higher interest rates. The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 was primarily due to lower term loan balances as we pay them down quarterly and lower interest rates on those balances. In addition to the required principal payments, we have made voluntary payments throughout the year resulting in a total decrease of $290.8 million in the principal of our term loans during fiscal 2009. Additionally, we had the benefit of the lower interest rates from our Convertible Notes for all of fiscal 2009 compared to approximately nine months in fiscal 2008 as prior to the issuance of the Convertible Notes we were paying a higher interest rate on the term loans, which had higher outstanding balances. In fiscal 2010, we will implement accounting guidance that requires us to allocate a portion of our Convertible Notes to equity based on the relative fair value of the embedded conversion feature in our Convertible Notes. This component is amortized to interest expense. As a result, we expect non-cash interest to increase approximately $71.1 million in fiscal 2010 from the adoption of this accounting guidance. See discussion under Recent Accounting Pronouncements below for additional information.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Other (Expense) Income, net.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2009, other (expense) income, net primarily includes other-than-temporary impairment charges of cost-method investments of $2.2 million and foreign currency transaction losses of $2.3 million, offset by an increase of $0.7 million in the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”). Included in the foreign currency transaction losses is a gain of $0.7 million related to the elimination of the cumulative translation adjustment related to our manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China due to its closure. In fiscal 2008, these balances were primarily related to a decrease in the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our SERP of $1.4 million and foreign currency transaction losses of $0.7 million. The increase in foreign currency losses is due to the significant volatility of exchange rates during fiscal 2009, primarily the Euro. To the extent that foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate in the future, we may be exposed to continued financial risk.  

Provision for Income Taxes.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 was 4.2% of the pre-tax loss compared to 38.1% of the pre-tax loss in fiscal 2008. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 was significantly impacted by the $2.34 billion goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, substantially all of which is not deductible for tax purposes. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 was significantly impacted by the acquired in-process research and development charge related to the merger with Cytyc and Third Wave acquisition, which is not tax deductible.  

We anticipate an effective tax rate of approximately 36% of pre-tax earnings in fiscal 2010.  

Segment Results of Operations  

We report our business as four segments: Breast Health, Diagnostics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We measure segment performance based on total revenues and operating income or loss. Revenues from product sales of each of these segments are described in further detail above. The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment.  

Breast Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Breast Health revenues decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to the $178.2 million decrease in product sales discussed above, partially offset by an increase of $46.2 million in service revenues that  

55  

Table of Contents 

 is substantially related to additional service contracts for the increased number of Selenia systems in our installed base.  

This segment incurred an operating loss in fiscal 2009 compared to operating income in fiscal 2008 primarily due to a $265.9 million goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter related to our MammoSite reporting unit in addition to the reduction of revenue discussed above and lower gross margins, partially offset by a reduction of operating expenses from our cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of fiscal 2009. Our gross margin in this business segment was 47% in fiscal 2009 compared to 51% in fiscal 2008. The decrease in gross margin was primarily attributable to lower absorption of manufacturing costs due to lower volumes, an increase of $8.8 million in amortization expense of intangible assets, and to a lesser extent, a slight deterioration of average selling prices driven by the current economic environment for capital purchases, and less expensive configurations of the units being sold. In addition, included in cost of product sales was approximately $1.9 million of costs related to the closure of our manufacturing facility in Shanghai. This segment incurred charges of $3.3 million in fiscal 2008 related to sales of acquired MammoSite inventory that was written up to fair value for purchase accounting purposes.  

Diagnostics.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Diagnostics revenues increased in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to the increase in product sales discussed above.  

The operating loss in this segment in fiscal 2009 included a $908.3 million goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter, intangible asset amortization of $119.2 million and a full year of operating costs related to Third Wave compared to 11 weeks in fiscal 2008. Partially offsetting these additional charges in fiscal 2009 were reduced operating expenses resulting from our cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of fiscal 2009. The operating loss in fiscal 2008 included a $195.2 million charge for in-process research and development related to the Third Wave acquisition, an $85.2 million charge for in-process research and development related to the merger with Cytyc, intangible asset amortization of $68.7 million, and a $3.6 million restructuring charge in the third quarter related to the resignation of our former Executive Chairman in May 2008. Gross margin in fiscal 2009 was 55% compared to 56% in fiscal 2008. The reduction in gross margin was primarily due to an increase in amortization expense due to an increase of $27.6 million and $6.7 million in the amortization of Cytyc and Third Wave related intangible assets, respectively. In addition, gross margin in fiscal 2009 included the write-off of intangible assets of $4.1 million and $1.2 million of charges for the write-up to fair value of acquired inventory sold by Third Wave in fiscal 2009. Gross margin in fiscal 2008 included charges of $26.6 million and $3.9 million, respectively, for the write-up to fair value of acquired Cytyc and Third Wave inventory sold during fiscal 2008.  

GYN Surgical.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

56  

Table of Contents 

GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 due to the increase in product sales discussed above. The operating loss in this segment in fiscal 2009 included a $1.17 billion goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter and additional amortization expense of $26.5 million. Partially offsetting these charges in fiscal 2009 was the increase in revenue discussed above as well as a decrease in operating expenses as a result of cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of this year. The operating loss in fiscal 2008 included a $284.8 million charge for in-process research and development related to the merger with Cytyc, a $2.9 million impairment charge for the Helica Thermal Coagulator System intangibles and a $2.4 million restructuring charge in the third quarter related to the resignation of our former Executive Chairman in May 2008. Our gross margin in this business segment was 67% in both fiscal 2009 and 2008. Gross margin in fiscal 2009 and 2008 included amortization expense from intangible assets of $38.2 million and $21.0 million, respectively, and fiscal 2008 included a $12.4 million charge for the write-up to fair value of Cytyc inventory that was sold during the first quarter of fiscal 2008.  

Skeletal Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Skeletal Health revenues decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to the decline in product sales discussed above. Our gross margin in this business segment was 41% compared to 34% in fiscal 2008. The improvement was primarily due to reductions in material costs and in manufacturing spending. Operating income for this segment improved due to the improved gross margin and from cost reduction initiatives implemented in the first half of 2009. The operating income and gross margin in fiscal 2009 included a $0.7 million charge associated with MRI inventory and purchase obligations compared to $4.5 million in fiscal 2008.  

Fiscal Year Ended September 27, 2008 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 29, 2007  

Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2008, our product sales increased 139% compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to the revenues from the addition of the Diagnostics segment, of approximately $474.6 million, and the GYN Surgical segment, of approximately $219.3 million, that we acquired in connection with our merger with Cytyc, and an increase in revenues from our Breast Health products of approximately $172.2 million.  

Breast Health product sales increased 31% in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to a $97.0 million increase in worldwide digital mammography system sales, the addition of $33.9 million of product sales  

57  

Table of Contents 

 of the MammoSite Radiation Therapy System, a $23.6 million increase in breast biopsy device sales and an increase of $21.5 million in product sales of the MammoPad breast cushion. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease of $6.4 million in digital array sales to an OEM as we phase out of selling these arrays to third parties. The MammoSite system was acquired in connection with our merger with Cytyc in October 2007 and the MammoPad breast cushion was acquired in connection with our BioLucent acquisition in September 2007. The increase in our digital mammography product sales was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of Selenia systems and related components sold, including our CAD software. In fiscal 2008, we sold 1,678 digital mammography systems compared to 1,189 systems in fiscal 2007. This revenue was partially offset by a decrease in average selling prices primarily attributable to increased competition, higher dealer sales, changes in product configuration and increased multi-system sales. We attribute the increase in digital mammography system sales primarily to the growing acceptance of our Selenia mammography system and of digital mammography in general.  

Diagnostics product sales were $474.6 million in fiscal 2008, due to the inclusion of Cytyc results for 49 of the 52 weeks in the current year as well as 9 weeks of Third Wave revenues of approximately $5.9 million. Cytyc Diagnostic sales include our ThinPrep and Rapid products.  

GYN Surgical product sales were $219.3 million in fiscal 2008, due to the inclusion of Cytyc results for 49 of the 52 weeks in the current year. These sales include our NovaSure system.  

Skeletal Health product sales increased 11% in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to a $10.8 million increase in mini C-arm sales worldwide, partially offset by a $2.0 million decrease in extremity MRI sales and a $1.2 million decrease in bone densitometry product sales. The increase in mini C-arm sales was primarily due to an increase in the number of units sold and, to a lesser extent, an increase in the average selling prices related to the commercialization of a new and enhanced product version. The decrease in extremity MRI sales was due to a decrease in the number of systems sold. The decrease in bone densitometry sales was primarily due to a decrease in the number of used bone densitometry systems and upgrades sold and a decrease in the average selling prices of our bone densitometry systems in the United States, partially offset by an increase in the number of bone densitometry systems sold internationally. We believe the decrease in our domestic osteoporosis assessment average selling prices reflected a decline in market conditions due in part to a reduction in reimbursement for osteoporosis assessment exams.  

In fiscal 2008, approximately 80% of product sales were generated in the United States, 12% in Europe, 4% in Asia, and 4% in other international markets. In fiscal 2007, approximately 75% of product sales were generated in the United States, 15% in Europe, 5% in Asia, and 5% in other international markets. The increase in the percentage of product sales generated in the United States in fiscal 2008 is primarily due to the additional product sales from Cytyc, which had a higher percentage of its product sales from the United States than our historical businesses.  

Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service and other revenues increased 57% in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. This increase was primarily due to an increase in service and other revenues of $49.8 million in our Breast Health segment, primarily due to an increase in service contract revenues, and the inclusion of service and other revenues of $10.3 million from the Diagnostics segment as a result of the inclusion of Cytyc results for 49 of the 52 weeks in fiscal 2008. We believe that the increase in our Breast Health service and other revenues reflected the growth in our installed base of systems and detectors.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Cost of Product Sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our gross margin increased in fiscal 2008 to 58% from 56% in fiscal 2007 due to the inclusion of Cytyc’s products, which have higher gross margins than our Breast Health and Skeletal Health products offset by the additional amortization expense almost entirely related to the merger with Cytyc.  

Cost of Product Sales. The cost of product sales increased 100% in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to the addition of $196.0 million of cost of product sales from the Cytyc products included in our results since October 22, 2007 and, to a lesser extent, increased product sales of our historical products discussed above. Included in the additional Cytyc cost of product sales is approximately $42.3 million of additional costs related to sales of acquired Cytyc inventory that was written up to fair value for purchase accounting purposes as of the date of acquisition.  

The cost of product sales as a percentage of product revenue in fiscal 2008 was 36% as compared to 43% in the prior year. These costs as a percentage of product sales decreased primarily due to the higher gross margins earned on Cytyc product sales compared to our historical products, partially offset by the additional charges for the write-up to fair value for the Cytyc inventory sold as noted above. Also contributing to the decrease in cost of product sales as a percentage of product revenue was increased revenues and improved profitability associated with the shift in mammography product sales to our Selenia full field digital mammography systems. Our higher Selenia system sales resulted in an improved absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. Partially offsetting the decreases in costs as a percentage of product sales were charges associated with a MRI inventory impairment charge and related purchase obligations totaling $4.5 million, and $3.9 million related to sales of acquired Third Wave inventory that was written up to fair value in connection with purchase accounting in fiscal 2008.  

We identified certain costs recorded within “Cost of Service and Other Revenues” in our Consolidated Statement of Operations during the first three quarters of fiscal 2008 that more appropriately should be classified as “Cost of Product Sales”. We determined that the reclassification was not material to our consolidated financial statements and corrected the classification in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. We also reclassified these costs related to prior periods to the current presentation, which resulted in an increase in “Cost of Product Sales” and a corresponding decrease in “Cost of Service and Other Revenues” of $9.3 million in the three months ended December 29, 2007; $12.3 million in the three months ended March 29, 2008; and $13.3 million in the three months ended June 28, 2008.  

Cost of Product Sales—Amortization of Intangible Assets. Cost of product sales—amortization of intangible assets increased primarily due to $80.2 million of amortization of intangible assets obtained as part of the merger with Cytyc in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The underlying intangible assets substantially relate to acquired developed technology and know-how. These intangible assets are generally being amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 15 years.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cost of service and other revenues increased in absolute dollars primarily related to additional costs from the merger with Cytyc of approximately $14.7 million in fiscal 2008. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to personnel and other costs to expand our service capabilities for breast health, especially in the United States, to support our growing installed base of our breast health products as a result of the increased service and other revenues. Please see “Cost of Product Sales” above for discussion of reclassification between cost of product sales and cost of service and other revenues during fiscal 2008.  

Operating Expenses.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 83% in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. These increases were primarily due to the inclusion of $31.5 million and $3.7 million of expenses in the current year associated with Cytyc-related and Third Wave-related activity, respectively, since the close of the merger with Cytyc and the acquisition of Third Wave. Also contributing to the increase was an increase in mammography related expenses of $2.6 million in fiscal 2008 primarily related to our tomosynthesis project and a $1.8 million charge for a change in control payment related to the merger with Cytyc recorded in the first quarter.  

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 206% in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. These increases were primarily due to the inclusion of $160.3 million of expenses associated with Cytyc-related activity since the close of the merger and approximately $5.1 million related to increased compensation and related expenses from the additional sales representatives added from the BioLucent acquisition in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Also contributing to the increase was approximately $3.3 million increased commission expense due to the increased product sales.  

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 137% in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to $77.5 million in expenses associated with Cytyc-related activity since the close of the merger and an increase of $11.2 million due to incremental stock-based compensation.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization expense of intangible assets increased 352% in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to $15.9 million of amortization of intangible assets obtained as part of the merger with Cytyc in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Fiscal years 2008 and 2007 also include the amortization of intangible assets acquired from AEG, R2, and Suros in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006. The underlying intangible assets substantially relate to acquired customer relationships and trade names. The intangible assets acquired in the merger with Cytyc are being amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 30 years.  

Restructuring Charges. During fiscal 2008, we recorded $6.4 million in compensation charges, including $1.9 million in stock-based compensation, related to the resignation of our Executive Chairman, which was effective May 20, 2008.  

Impairment of Intangible Assets. Subsequent to the merger with Cytyc, we discontinued the development of Cytyc’s Helica Thermal Coagulator System product, used for the treatment of endometriosis. We will not realize any future cash flows from this product. Our intangible asset valuation for Cytyc included approximately $2.9 million related to customer relationships for Helica. As a result of the Helica product discontinuation, we recorded an impairment charge of $2.9 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2008.  

Acquired In-Process Research and Development Expenses. Included in this charge in fiscal 2008 is $370.0 million for in-process research and development incurred in connection with our merger with Cytyc as described in further detail above under “Fiscal 2008 Acquisitions—Cytyc Corporation.” Also included is $195.2 million for in-process research and development incurred in connection with our acquisition of Third Wave as described in further detail above under “Fiscal 2008 Acquisitions—Third Wave Technologies, Inc.”  

Interest Income.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest income increased in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due an increase in our investment balances, partially offset by a decrease in the interest rate earned during the current year compared to fiscal 2007.  

Interest Expense.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2008, these expenses consisted primarily of the interest costs and the related amortization of deferred financing costs related to both the senior secured credit agreement entered into on October 22, 2007 in connection with the merger with Cytyc and our subsequent 2.0% Convertible Note Offering. In fiscal 2007, these expenses consisted primarily of the interest costs and fees on the unsecured revolving line of credit entered into on July 24, 2006 (and amended on September 25, 2006) of $1.5 million as well as interest costs on notes payable assumed with the acquisition of AEG in the amount of $1.0 million. We incurred additional interest expense in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 in connection with our borrowing of $540.0 million on July 17, 2008 to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of Third Wave.  

61  

Table of Contents 

Other (Expense) Income, net.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2008, these balances were primarily related to foreign currency transaction losses of approximately $0.7 million and a decrease in the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our SERP of approximately $1.4 million. In fiscal 2007, other income related primarily to the increase in the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our SERP.  

Provision for Income Taxes.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 was 38.1% of the pre-tax loss. For fiscal 2008, our effective tax rate was affected by the in-process research and development and intangible asset impairment charges we incurred in connection with our merger with Cytyc and the in-process research and development that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of Third Wave Technologies. Absent the in-process research and development and intangible asset impairment charges, our effective tax rate would have been approximately 36.9% for fiscal 2008. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 was 36.3% of pre-tax earnings. This represented our normalized rate of approximately 37% reduced by certain tax credits.  

Our net deferred tax liability increased approximately $842.0 million in fiscal 2008 primarily due to the increase of intangible assets as a result of the merger with Cytyc, for which the related amortization is not deductible for tax purposes.  

Segment Results of Operations  

As a result of our merger with Cytyc we began reporting our business as four segments: Breast Health, Diagnostics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. Fiscal 2007 was restated to conform to this presentation. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We measure segment performance based on total revenues and operating income or loss. Revenues from product sales of each of these segments are described in further detail above. The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment.  

Breast Health.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

62  

Table of Contents 

Breast Health revenues for fiscal 2008 increased primarily due to the $172.2 million increase in product sales discussed above and due to a $49.8 million increase in service revenues that was primarily related to the increased number of service contracts for the increased number of Selenia systems in our installed base. Operating income for this business segment increased primarily due to the increased revenues. Our gross margin in this business segment was 51% in fiscal 2008 as compared to 49% in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2008 our gross margins improved from the increase in product revenues of our more profitable Selenia systems versus our analog mammography systems and, to a lesser extent, higher margins realized on our MammoSite product, acquired as part of the merger with Cytyc. In addition, higher total revenues including higher Selenia system sales have allowed for the greater absorption of manufacturing costs. Partially offsetting these improvements was a charge of $3.3 million for the write-up to fair value of MammoSite RTS inventory sold, primarily during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Operating expenses for this business segment increased 34% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to the addition of $28.4 million of operating expenses from the MammoSite business as well as from increased operating expenses in support of our growing Selenia business. Also contributing to the increases during the year was an increase in stock-based compensation of $7.1 million, as well as a $0.4 million restructuring charge in the third quarter related to the resignation of our Executive Chairman in May 2008.  

Diagnostics.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Diagnostics revenues, which include our ThinPrep, Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test and Third Wave products, totaled $485.0 million in fiscal 2008. Our gross margin in this business segment was 57%, including charges of $26.6 million and $3.9 million, respectively, for the write-up to fair value of the Cytyc inventory sold during the first quarter and the Third Wave inventory sold during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. The operating loss also included an $85.2 million charge for in-process research and development as a result of the merger with Cytyc in the first quarter, a $195.2 million charge for in-process research and development as a result of the Third Wave acquisition in the fourth quarter, stock-based compensation of $7.6 million and a $3.6 million restructuring charge in the third quarter related to the resignation of our Executive Chairman in May 2008.  

GYN Surgical.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

GYN Surgical revenues, which include our NovaSure products and our Adiana System under development in fiscal 2008, totaled $221.1 million in fiscal 2008. In the second and third quarters, we believe that sales of the NovaSure System were adversely affected by a modest softening in sales to the hospital-based market, as well as lower than expected customer inventory utilization. Our sales to both the hospital market and office based market generally have been based upon current order bookings for immediate shipment with little or no backlog. Over the last three quarters, we refocused our sales efforts and programs to increasing longer term customer  

63  

Table of Contents 

 commitments. However, while we could not assure that we would be successful, our goal was to have an increase in NovaSure system backlog, followed by an increase in sequential growth of revenue during fiscal 2009 with sales to the physician office-based market playing a role in that increase. Our gross margin in this business segment was 67% during this period and includes a charge of $12.4 million for the write-up to fair value of the Cytyc inventory sold during the first fiscal quarter of 2008. The operating loss for fiscal 2008 also includes a $284.8 million charge for in-process research and development as a result of the merger with Cytyc and a $2.9 million impairment charge of the Helica Thermal Coagulator System intangibles. This segment included stock-based compensation of $3.8 million in fiscal 2008, as well as a $2.4 million restructuring charge in the third quarter related to the resignation of our Executive Chairman in May 2008.  

Skeletal Health.   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Skeletal Health revenues increased in fiscal 2008 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year primarily due to the $7.5 million increase in product sales discussed above. Our gross margin in this business segment was 34% in fiscal 2008 compared to 32% in fiscal 2007. Operating income and gross margin for the Skeletal Health segment increased in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 primarily due to the increased revenues and due to improved absorption as a result of manufacturing additional products in the facility where the Skeletal Health products are produced, partially offset by charges associated with MRI inventory and purchase obligations recorded in fiscal 2008 totaling $4.5 million compared to $2.0 million in fiscal 2007. Skeletal Health costs and expenses included stock compensation of $2.2 million and $1.1 million in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

At September 26, 2009, we had $492.2 million of working capital, and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $293.2 million. Our cash and cash equivalents balance increased by $197.5 million during fiscal 2009, primarily from cash generated from our operations. This cash source was partially offset by our financing activities relating to our repayment of amounts outstanding under our credit agreement and certain other notes payable and to a lesser extent cash used in our investing activities primarily for purchases of property and equipment and placement of equipment under customer usage agreements.  

Our operating activities generated $546.4 million of cash, which included a net loss of $2.18 billion reduced primarily by non-cash charges for goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $2.34 billion, depreciation and amortization expense of $273.9 million, stock-based compensation expense of $32.9 million and non-cash interest expense of $17.7 million from the amortization of debt issuance costs. Cash provided by operations due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities included a decrease in accounts receivable of $57.6 million, an increase in deferred revenue of $19.6 million and a decrease in prepaid income taxes of $17.9 million. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to the decline in sales volume in the current quarter as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 as well as improved collections. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to an increase in the number of service contracts as our installed base of our Breast Health products continues to grow. The decrease in prepaid income taxes was due to the utilization of amounts to offset current taxable income. Cash provided by operations was offset by an increase in inventories of $15.1 million and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities of $12.9 million and $10.6 million, respectively. The increase in inventories was primarily related to the increase in components on hand as a result  

64  

Table of Contents 

 of the decline in sales volume. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments and our overall efforts to reduce operating expenses. The decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily due to lower compensation and bonuses as a result of a lower headcount and operating results below the operating plan, and overall lower operating expenses excluding amortization of intangible assets due to our cost reduction initiatives.  

During fiscal 2009, we used $61.5 million of cash in investing activities. This use of cash was primarily attributable to $31.4 million for purchases of property and equipment, which consisted primarily of manufacturing, demonstration and test equipment and computer software and hardware. We also invested $22.8 million in equipment under customer usage agreements and purchased certain intellectual property totaling $6.2 million. In addition, we purchased of $5.3 million of life insurance contracts to fund future payments under our SERP.  

During fiscal 2009, we utilized $288.6 million of cash in financing activities, substantially for repayments of the term loans under our credit agreement of $290.8 million and the payment of $10.1 million of notes payable, primarily our AEG loans. Offsetting these payments was proceeds of $10.9 million from the exercise of stock options and the purchase of common shares under the employee stock purchase plan.  

Debt  

We had total debt of $1.9 billion at September 26, 2009. The majority of our debt, our convertible notes and term loans under our credit agreement, was obtained to fund our Third Wave acquisition and merger with Cytyc in fiscal 2008. The debt maturity schedule for the components of our debt obligations as of September 26, 2009 is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Our Convertible Notes can first be put to us on December 13, 2013 and as such, we have assumed they will be paid off in fiscal 2014.  

Credit Agreement. On October 22, 2007, we entered into a $2.55 billion senior secured credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and certain other lenders (collectively, the “Lenders”). As of the closing of the merger with Cytyc we borrowed $2.35 billion under the credit facilities, all of which had variable interest rates. We applied the net proceeds from our convertible note offering described below to repay amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. During the year ended September 27, 2008, we also made voluntary prepayments of principal to fully repay the terms loans under the Credit Agreement.  

On July 17, 2008, in connection with our acquisition of Third Wave, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with certain of the Lenders (the “Amended Credit Agreement”). The Amended Credit Agreement amended and restated our existing Credit Agreement with Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and the lenders named therein, dated as of October 22, 2007.  

In order to consummate the purchase of all issued and outstanding stock of Third Wave, we borrowed $540.0 million of term loans under the credit facilities on July 17, 2008 of which $400.0 million was designated Term Loan A and $140.0 million designated Term Loan B. In addition, we have a $200.0 million revolving credit facility under the Amended Credit Agreement (the “Revolving Facility”). Our obligations under the  

65  

Table of Contents 

 Amended Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets. As of September 26, 2009, we had an aggregate of $174.2 million of principal outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement, consisting of $124.7 million under Term Loan A and $49.5 million under Term Loan B. Subsequent to September 26, 2009, we paid an additional $24.6 million of principal of which $21.0 million was a voluntary payment. This voluntary payment of $21.0 million has been reclassified to current portion of long term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 26, 2009. As of that date we had no amounts outstanding under the Revolving Facility, and therefore, had full availability. The final maturity dates for the credit facility are September 30, 2012 for the Term Loan A and Revolving Facility and March 31, 2013 for the Term Loan B. 

All amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement bear interest, at Hologic’s option, as follows:  

   With respect to loans made under the revolving facility and the Term Loan A facility:  

   (i) at the Base Rate plus 1.25% per annum, which was reduced from 1.50% in May 2009; or  

   (ii) at the reserve adjusted Eurodollar Rate plus 2.25% per annum, which was reduced from 2.50% in May 2009; and  

   With respect to loans made under the Term Loan B facility:  

   (i) at the Base Rate plus 2.25% per annum; or  

   (ii) at the reserve adjusted Eurodollar Rate plus 3.25% per annum.  

The credit facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants customarily applicable to senior secured credit facilities, including covenants restricting the ability of the Hologic loan parties, subject to negotiated exceptions, to: incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on their assets; engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, pay dividends or make other distributions, voluntarily prepay other indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliated persons, make investments, and change the nature of their businesses. The credit facilities require the Hologic loan parties to maintain certain maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, as defined in the Amended Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with the financial covenants as of September 26, 2009.  

Convertible Notes. On December 10, 2007, we issued and sold $1.725 billion, at par, of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2037. The net proceeds from the offering was approximately $1.69 billion, after deducting the underwriters’ discounts and estimated offering expenses of approximately $1.5 million payable by us, and was used to repay a portion of our then outstanding senior secured indebtedness under our Credit Agreement.  

Holders may require us to repurchase the notes on December 13 of 2013, and on each of December 15, 2017, 2022, 2027 and 2032 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We may redeem any of the notes beginning December 18, 2013, by giving holders at least 30 days’ notice. We may redeem the notes either in whole or in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and liquidated damages, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date.  

The notes bear interest at a rate of 2.00% per year on the principal amount, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning June 15, 2008, and ending on December 15, 2013 and will accrete principal from December 15, 2013 at a rate that provides holders with an aggregate annual yield to maturity of 2.00% per year. Beginning with the six month interest period commencing December 15, 2013, we will pay contingent interest during any six month interest period to the holders of notes if the “trading price”, as defined, of the notes for each of the five trading days ending on the second trading day immediately preceding the first day of the applicable six month interest period equals or exceeds 120% of the accreted principal amount  

66  

Table of Contents 

 of the notes. The holders of the notes may convert the notes into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of approximately $38.60 per share, subject to adjustment, prior to the close of business on September 15, 2037, subject to prior redemption or repurchase of the notes, under any of the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending December 31, 2007 if the last reported sale price of our common stock exceeds 130% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding calendar quarter; (2) during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per note for each day of such period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such day; (3) if the notes have been called for redemption; or (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.  

In lieu of delivery of shares of our common stock in satisfaction of our obligation upon conversion of the notes, we may elect to deliver cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. If we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation solely in cash, we will deliver cash in an amount as provided in the indenture for the notes. If we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, we will deliver up to a specified dollar amount of cash per $1,000 original principal amount of notes, and will settle the remainder of our conversion obligation in shares of our common stock, in each case based on the daily conversion value calculated as provided in the indenture for the notes. In addition, at any time on or prior to the 35th scheduled trading day prior to the maturity date of the notes, we may make an irrevocable election to settle conversions of the notes either solely in cash or in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock with a specified cash amount at least equal to the accreted principal amount of the notes. This net share settlement election is in our sole discretion and does not require the consent of holders of the notes. It is our current intent and policy to settle any conversion of the notes as if we had elected to make the net share settlement election.  

The notes are our senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all of our existing and future senior unsecured debt and prior to all future subordinated debt. The notes are effectively subordinated to any future secured indebtedness to the extent of the collateral securing such indebtedness, and structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries.  

Contingent Earn-Out Payments. As a result of the merger with Cytyc, we assumed the obligation to the former Adiana stockholders to make contingent earn-out payments tied to the achievement of milestones. The milestone payments include potential contingent payments of up to $155 million based on worldwide sales of the Adiana System in the first year following FDA approval and on annual incremental sales growth thereafter through December 31, 2012. We received FDA approval of the Adiana System on July 6, 2009, and the Company began accruing contingent consideration in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 based on the defined percentage of worldwide sales of the product. The total accrued contingent consideration net at September 26, 2009 is $1.5 million. These amounts are being recorded as additional purchase price, and under the terms of the agreement the first payment is not due to the Adiana shareholders until October 2010. The agreement includes an indemnification provision that provides for the reimbursement of qualifying legal expenses in defense of the Adiana intellectual property, and we have the right to offset contingent consideration payments to the Adiana shareholders with these qualifying legal costs. Legal costs have not been material to date.  

Since it is not possible to estimate the amount, and the timing of such amounts, of contingent consideration we will pay in the future as it is based on future revenues, the maximum amount or any other amount of contingent consideration payments has not been included in the contractual obligations table below.  

67  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of September 26, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Our Convertible Notes can first be put to us on December 13, 2013 and we have assumed for purpose of the above table that they will be paid off in fiscal 2014.  

 (2) We acquired the financing leases in connection with our acquisition of Cytyc in fiscal 2008. Cytyc had executed two leases for an office building and for a manufacturing facility, which were required to be recorded on our balance sheet under US GAAP. See Note 12 in our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information.  

 (3) This represents certain non-cancelable supply contracts. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability or cost effectiveness, certain key components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. To assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, long-term supply contracts have been executed with these suppliers. In certain of these contracts, a minimum purchase commitment has been established.  

 (4) Pension obligations do not include our obligation under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, which is recorded as a current liability of $11.2 million. These benefits are generally paid out at retirement or termination of employment.  

 (5) This represents a private equity investment commitment with a limited liability partnership, which could be paid over the succeeding two years.  

The above table does not reflect our long-term liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions recorded under FIN 48 (codified primarily in ASC 740, Income Taxes) totaling $14.7 million. Due to the complexity associated with tax uncertainties, we cannot reasonably make a reliable estimate of the period in which we expect to settle these non-current liabilities. See Note 8 in our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information on our unrecognized tax benefits. In addition, certain of our cost method equity investments give us the option to acquire the company in the future. Since it is not possible to estimate when, or even if, we will exercise our option to acquire these companies, we have not included these future potential payments in the table above.  

We expect to continue to review and evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, and strategic alliances that we believe will complement our current or future business. Subject to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this report and the general disclaimers set forth in our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Report, we believe that cash flow from operations and cash available from our Amended Credit Agreement will provide us with sufficient funds in order to fund our expected operations over the next twelve months. Our longer-term liquidity is contingent upon future operating performance and our ability to continue to meet financial covenants under our Amended Credit Agreement. We  

68  

Table of Contents 

 may also require additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other investments, or to repay our convertible notes. The holders of the Convertible Notes may require us to repurchase the notes on December 13 of 2013, and on each of December 15, 2017, 2022, 2027 and 2032 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount. These capital requirements could be substantial. Our operating performance may also be affected by matters discussed under the above-referenced Risk Factors as elsewhere in this report. These risks, trends and uncertainties may also adversely affect our long-term liquidity.  

Legal Contingencies  

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and claims. In connection with these legal proceedings and claims, management periodically reviews estimates of potential costs to be incurred by us in connection with the adjudication or settlement, if any, of these proceedings. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based on an analysis of potential litigation outcomes and settlement strategies. In accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies (formerly SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies), loss contingencies are accrued if, in the opinion of management, an adverse outcome is probable and such outcome can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that future results for any particular quarter or annual period may be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies relating to these proceedings.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements, allowance for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, valuations and purchase price allocations related to business combinations, expected future cash flows including growth rates, discount rates, terminal values and other assumptions and estimates used to evaluate the recoverability of long-lived assets and goodwill, estimated fair values of intangible assets and goodwill, amortization methods and periods, warranty reserves, certain accrued expenses, restructuring and other related charges, stock-based compensation, contingent liabilities, tax reserves and recoverability of our net deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate. Any differences may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  

The following is a discussion of what we believe to be the more significant critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

Inventory  

Our inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. As a designer and manufacturer of high technology medical equipment, we may be exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures on products and prices, reliability and replacement of and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate our ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future  

69  

Table of Contents 

 market values and new product introductions. Assumptions used in determining our estimates of future product demand may prove to be incorrect, in which case the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory would have to be adjusted in the future. If inventory is determined to be overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs as cost of goods sold at the time of such determination. Although every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand could have a significant negative impact on the value of our inventory and our reported operating results. Additionally, purchasing requirements and alternative usage avenues are explored within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to its net realizable value.  

Provisions for excess or obsolete inventory are primarily based on our estimates of forecasted net sales and service usage levels. A significant change in the timing or level of demand for our products as compared to forecasted amounts may result in recording additional provisions for excess or expired inventory in the future. We record provisions for excess or obsolete inventory as cost of sales.  

Accounts Receivable Reserves  

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We regularly evaluate the collectibility of our trade receivables based on a combination of factors, including a dialogue with the customer to determine the cause of non-payment, and evaluation of the customer’s current financial situation. In the event it is determined that the customer may not be able to meet its full obligation to us, we record a specific allowance to reduce the receivable to the amount that we expect to recover given all information present. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and our assessment of the customer’s current credit worthiness. We continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates in the future. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, for example as a result of the recent financial and economic turmoil or otherwise, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.  

We also record a provision for estimated sales returns and allowances on product and service related sales in the same period as the related revenues are recorded. These estimates are based on the specific facts and circumstances of particular orders, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. If the data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect reserve requirements, then a change in the allowances would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be adversely affected.  

Valuation of Business Combinations  

We record tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting. Amounts paid for each acquisition are allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition. The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. The valuation of purchased research and development represents the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition related to in-process projects. Our purchased research and development represents the value of in-process projects that have not yet reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future uses as of the date of acquisition. We expense the value attributable to these in-process projects at the time of the acquisition. If the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial benefits expected for these projects or for the acquisitions as a whole.  

70  

Table of Contents 

We use the income approach to determine the fair values of our purchased research and development. This approach determines fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to an in-process project over its useful life and then discounting these after-tax cash flows back to a present value. We base our revenue assumptions on estimates of relevant market sizes, expected market growth rates, expected trends in technology and expected product introductions by competitors. In arriving at the value of the in-process projects, we consider, among other factors, the in-process projects’ stage of completion, the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date, the costs already incurred, the projected costs to complete, the contribution of core technologies and other acquired assets, the expected introduction date and the estimated useful life of the technology. We base the discount rate used to arrive at a present value as of the date of acquisition on the time value of money and medical technology investment risk factors. For the in-process projects we acquired in connection with our fiscal 2008 acquisitions, we used risk-adjusted discount rates to discount our projected cash flows, ranging from 12.5% to 20%. We believe that the estimated purchased research and development amounts so determined represent the fair value at the date of acquisition and do not exceed the amount a third party would pay for the projects.  

We have also used the income approach, as described above, to determine the estimated fair value of certain other identifiable intangible assets including developed technology, customer relationships and trade names. Developed technology represents patented and unpatented technology and know-how. Customer relationships represent established relationships with customers, which provide a ready channel for the sale of additional products and services. Tradenames represent acquired product names that we intend to continue to utilize.  

Intangible Assets and Goodwill  

Intangible Assets  

We amortize our intangible assets that have finite lives using either the straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefit of the asset is expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization is recorded over the estimated useful lives ranging from 2 to 30 years. We review our intangible assets subject to amortization to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a change in the remaining useful life. If the carrying value of an asset exceeds its undiscounted cash flows, we will write-down the carrying value of the intangible asset to its fair value in the period identified. In assessing recoverability, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and discount rates. If these estimates or related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. We generally calculate fair value as the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. If the estimate of an intangible asset’s remaining useful life is changed, we will amortize the remaining carrying value of the intangible asset prospectively over the revised remaining useful life.  

Goodwill  

In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (formerly FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142 (“SFAS 142”), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets), we test goodwill at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Events that would indicate impairment and trigger an interim impairment assessment include, but are not limited to current economic and market conditions, including a decline in market capitalization, a significant adverse change in legal factors, business climate or operational performance of the business, and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Our annual impairment test date is the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter.  

In performing the test, we utilize the two-step approach prescribed under ASC 350. The first step requires a comparison of the carrying value of the reporting units, as defined, to the fair value of these units. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, including an independent valuation to conduct  

71  

Table of Contents 

 this test. The valuation is based upon expected future discounted operating cash flows of the reporting unit as well as analysis of recent sales or offerings of similar companies. We base the discount rate used to arrive at a present value as the date of the impairment test on our weighted average cost of capital. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we will perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill to its carrying value.  

During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, based upon a combination of factors, including the deteriorating macro-economic environment, declines in the stock market and the decline of our market capitalization significantly below the book value of our net assets, we concluded that potential goodwill impairment indicators existed as of December 27, 2008. As a result, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis as of December 27, 2008. Step 1 of the impairment analysis indicated that the carrying value of the net assets of certain reporting units, acquired in connection with the Cytyc acquisition, exceeded the estimated fair value of those reporting units. As a result, we were required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount, if any, of goodwill impairment charges for each of the applicable reporting units. The Step 2 analysis required us to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation for each of these reporting units to determine the implied fair value of goodwill and to compare the implied fair value of goodwill to the recorded amount of goodwill by reporting unit. Due to the complexities and time involved in preparing the Step 1 analysis, we had not commenced the Step 2 analysis as of February 5, 2009, the date we filed our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 27, 2008. As a result of the fact that we had not commenced the Step 2 analysis and the complexity of the analysis required to complete the Step 2 analysis, we were unable to determine that an impairment loss, in accordance with ASC 450 (formerly SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies), was both probable and reasonably estimable at December 27, 2008. We completed the Step 2 analysis during our second quarter of fiscal 2009, which resulted in an aggregate goodwill impairment charge of $2.34 billion. This impairment charge is comprised of $1.17 billion for GYN Surgical, $908.3 million for Diagnostics, and $265.9 million for Breast Health related to our MammoSite reporting unit acquired from Cytyc. We believe that our procedures and related assumptions for estimating the reporting units’ fair value are reasonable and consistent with the market conditions that existed at the time of the impairment test.  

For illustrative purposes, had the fair values of each reporting unit for which we recorded goodwill impairment charges in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 been lower by 10% as of December 27, 2008, we would have recorded an additional impairment charge of $435.5 million. Based on the Company’s estimates as of December 27, 2008, the impact of reducing our fair value estimates for our other reporting units, for which we did not record any goodwill impairment charges, by 10% would have had no impact on the our goodwill assessment for those reporting units.  

We conducted our annual impairment test as of the first day of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. In order to complete the annual impairment test, we updated our interim impairment test results and performed detailed analyses estimating the fair value of most of our reporting units utilizing our fiscal 2010 forecast with updated long-term growth assumptions. For one reporting unit, we utilized the results of our interim impairment test. Pursuant to ASC 350-20-35-29 (formerly paragraph 27 of SFAS 142), we concluded that it met the required criteria to use the estimated fair value determined from its interim impairment analysis for this reporting unit because 1) the composition of the assets and liabilities of this reporting unit had not changed significantly since the most recent fair value determination, 2) the most recent fair value determination resulted in a fair value that exceeded the carrying value of the reporting unit by a substantial margin, and 3) management concluded, based on an analysis of current events that had occurred and circumstances that had changed since the most recent fair value determination, that it is remote that the current fair value of the reporting unit would not exceed their carrying amounts.  

As a result of completing Step 1, all of our reporting units, except one, had a fair value exceeding their carrying value, and as such Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for these reporting units. For the reporting unit that failed Step 1, we completed Step 2 and determined that an impairment charge was not required  

72  

Table of Contents 

 due to the fair value of the implied goodwill exceeding the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. For illustrative purposes, had the fair value of this reporting unit at June 28, 2009 been lower by 10%, the Company still would not have recorded any impairment charge. If the fair value of our other reporting units had been lower by 10%, two reporting units would have failed Step 1 requiring a Step 2 analysis. These reporting units, one in the Diagnostics reportable segment and one in the Skeletal Health reportable segment, had fair values at this date that exceeded their carrying values by 9% and 2%, respectively, and goodwill of $236.0 million and $8.2 million, respectively. The fair value of these reporting units is determined by use of a discounted cash flow analysis (“DCF”) under the income approach. The key assumptions that drive the fair value in this model are the discount rates (i.e., weighted average cost of capital, “WACC”), terminal values, growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. If the current worldwide financial markets and economic environment were to deteriorate, this would likely result in a higher WACC because market participants would require a higher rate of return. In the DCF as the WACC increases, the fair value decreases. The other significant factor in the DCF is our projected financial information (i.e., amount and timing of expected future cash flows and growth rates) and if our assumptions were to be adversely impacted, this could result in a reduction of the fair values of these reporting units. For our other reporting units with goodwill aggregating $1.77 billion, we believe that these reporting units are not at risk of failing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test.  

The estimate of fair value requires significant judgment. Any loss resulting from an impairment test would be reflected in operating income (loss) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The annual impairment testing process is subjective and requires judgment at many points throughout the analysis. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets not previously recorded.  

Revenue Recognition  

We recognize product revenue upon shipment provided that there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, there are no uncertainties regarding acceptance, the sales price is fixed or determinable, no rights of return exist and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Generally, our product arrangements are multiple element arrangements, including services such as installation and training. We account for these arrangements in accordance with ASC 605-25, Multiple Element Arrangements (formerly Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) No. 00-21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables). Based on the terms and conditions of the product arrangements, we have concluded that these services and undelivered products can be accounted for separately from the delivered product element as our delivered product has value to our customers on a stand-alone basis and we have objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of such services and undelivered products. Accordingly, service revenue representing the fair value of services not yet performed at the time of product shipment is deferred and recognized as such services are performed. The fair value of the undelivered products is also deferred at the time of product shipment and recognized when these products are delivered. The residual revenue under the product arrangement will be recognized as product revenue upon shipment. There are no customer rights of return in our sales agreements.  

We recognize product revenue upon the completion of installation for products whose installation is essential to its functionality, primarily related to our digital imaging systems. A provision is made at that time for estimated warranty costs to be incurred.  

Service revenues primarily consist of amounts recorded under service and maintenance contracts and repairs not covered under warranty, installation and training revenues and shipping and handling costs billed to customers. Service and maintenance contract revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the contract. Other service revenues are recorded when the services are delivered.  

Although certain of our products contain operating and application software, we have determined that except for our CAD (computer aided detection) products obtained with the acquisition of R2 Technology, Inc. and the newly released Dimensions 2D/3D full field digital mammography product (“Dimensions”), the software element is incidental in accordance with the software revenue recognition rules.  

73  

Table of Contents 

We have determined that the provisions of ASC 985-605, Software—Revenue Recognition (formerly AICPA Statement of Position No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition) apply to revenue transactions for our CAD systems and the Dimensions product. ASC 985-605 generally requires revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each element based on the relative fair values of the elements. Revenue recognized from multi-element arrangements is allocated to each element of the arrangement using the residual method based on the fair value of the undelivered elements. Our determination of fair value of the undelivered elements in multi-element arrangements is based on vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”). We limit our assessment of VSOE for each element to either the price charged when the same element is sold separately or the price established by management, having the relevant authority to do so, for an element not yet sold separately. We recognize revenue on CAD systems and Dimensions product sales upon completion of installation, at which time the only remaining undelivered element is Post Contract Support (“PCS”).  

Upon its release, we completed an evaluation of the software component of our Dimensions product in accordance with the software revenue recognition rules. We noted the following in our evaluation of the software component of our new Dimensions product:  

   •    Dimensions is offered in different configurations offering different levels of functionality (2D vs. 3D). Customers who purchase the 2D configuration will be to able to upgrade the product to a 3D version and such upgrade will solely represent a software upgrade that will be marketed and sold separately. This differentiation from our existing 2D digital mammography product is expected to be highlighted in our marketing literature.  

   •    As part of the initial warranty of the Dimensions product, customers will receive not only bug fixes related to the software but will also receive any updates and enhancements to the software that are released. Therefore, we concluded that this represents PCS as defined in ASC 985-605.  

As a result, we have determined that the Dimensions product contains software that is more than incidental to the product as a whole and thus, will be accounted for under ASC 985-605. Therefore, we recognize revenue upon installation and acceptance, if required, and defer revenue based on the VSOE of fair value of the initial bundled PCS. We have determined that VSOE of fair value of the initial bundled PCS exists based on the establishment of the price for which this element will be sold separately by management having the relevant authority and that it is probable that this price will not change prior to when this service is sold separately. We have specified the renewal rates at which service can be purchased separately upon expiration of the initial PCS period and those rates have been consistent.  

For multi-element arrangements where VSOE of fair value of PCS has been established, we recognize revenue using the residual method at the time all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Amounts attributable to post contract support are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized ratably over the contractual term of the support.  

Under customer usage agreements, we install certain equipment (for example, a ThinPrep Processor or a ThinPrep Imaging System) at customer sites and customers commit to purchasing minimum quantities of disposable supplies at a stated price (generally including a usage fee for the equipment) over a defined contract term, which is typically between three and five years. Revenue is recognized over the term of the customer usage agreement as disposable supplies are delivered. We also rent certain equipment to customers. Revenues from rental agreements are recorded over the terms of the rental agreements.  

Product Warranties  

Products sold are generally covered by a warranty for a period of one year. We accrue a warranty reserve at the time of revenue recognition for estimated costs to provide warranty services. Our estimate of costs to service our warranty obligations is based on historical experience and expectation of future conditions. To the extent we experience increased or decreased warranty claim activity or increased or decreased costs associated with  

74  

Table of Contents 

 servicing those claims, our warranty accrual will increase or decrease, respectively, resulting in decreased or increased gross profit. Our warranty accrual was approximately $5.6 million, $9.1 million and $12.1 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in the warranty accrual in both fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 is primarily attributable to a decrease in warranty claim activity primarily related to our digital mammography systems.  

Stock-Based Compensation  

The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment (codified in ASC 718, Stock Compensation) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 required that stock-based compensation expense associated with stock options and related awards be recognized in the statement of income, rather than being disclosed in a pro forma footnote to the consolidated financial statements. Determining the amount of stock-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates to be used in calculating the grant-date fair value of stock options. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we determined the fair value of our stock options using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model. In connection with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we elected to use a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of our stock options. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of stock options including the advice of an outside valuation advisor and the advisor’s model. The model requires us to make estimates of the following assumptions:  

Expected volatility—We are responsible for estimating volatility and have considered a number of factors, including third-party estimates, when estimating volatility. We currently use a combination of historical and implied volatility, which is weighted based on a number of factors.  

Expected term—We use historical employee exercise and option expiration data to estimate the expected term assumption. We believe that this historical data is currently the best estimate of the expected term of a new option, and that generally, all of our employees exhibit similar exercise behavior.  

Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities for a period that is commensurate with the expected term assumption is used as the risk-free interest rate.  

The amount of stock-based compensation expense recognized during a period is based on the value of the portion of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest. ASC 718 requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. The term “forfeitures” is distinct from “cancellations” or “expirations” and represents only the unvested portion of the surrendered option. Based on an analysis of historical forfeitures, the Company has determined a specific forfeiture rate for certain employee groups and has applied forfeiture rates ranging from 0% to 6% as of September 26, 2009 depending on the specific employee group. This analysis is re-evaluated quarterly and the forfeiture rate is adjusted as necessary. Ultimately, the actual expense recognized over the vesting period will only be for those awards that vest.  

We recognized $32.9 million, $25.7 million and $6.1 million of stock-based compensation expense for employee equity awards in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of September 26, 2009, there was $32.0 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock option awards that we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of 3.5 years. As of September 26, 2009, there was $33.0 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to restricted stock units that we expect to recognize over a weighted average period of 2.3 years.  

Income Taxes  

We use the asset and liability method for accounting for income taxes. Under this method we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between financial reporting and taxes bases of our assets and liabilities. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse.  

75  

Table of Contents 

We recognized net deferred tax liabilities of $860.8 million at September 26, 2009 and $867.2 million at September 27, 2008. The liabilities primarily relate to deferred taxes associated with our acquisitions and the original issuance discount on our Convertible Notes. The tax assets relate primarily net operating loss carryforwards, accruals and reserves, stock-based compensation and research credits. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.  

On September 30, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation (“FIN”) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (codified primarily in ASC 740, Income Taxes), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements. FIN No. 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement criteria for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN No. 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition and defines the criteria that must be met for the benefits of a tax position to be recognized. As a result of our adoption of FIN No. 48, we recorded the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle of $0.5 million as a decrease to opening retained earnings.  

We had gross unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, of approximately $29.2 million as of September 26, 2009 and $20.2 million as of September 27, 2008. At September 26, 2009, $29.2 million represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would result in a reduction of the Company’s effective tax rate. In the next twelve months it is reasonably possible that we will reduce our unrecognized tax benefits by $2.2 million due to expiration of statute of limitations and settlements with taxing authorities, which will reduce the Company’s effective tax rate.  

In the ordinary course of global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes for all years subject to audit. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different than that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In the event our assumptions are incorrect, the differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

In September 2009, the FASB ratified ASC Update No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, or ASU 2009-13. ASU 2009-13, amends existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements that are currently within the scope of FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Subtopic 605-25 (previously included within EITF Issue No. 00-21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, or EITF 00-21). This consensus provides for two significant changes to the existing multiple element revenue recognition guidance. First, this guidance deletes the requirement to have objective and reliable evidence of fair value for undelivered elements in an arrangement and will result in more deliverables being treated as separate units of accounting. The second change modifies the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables. These changes may result in entities recognizing more revenue up-front, and entities will no longer be able to apply the residual method and defer the fair value of undelivered elements. Upon adoption of these new rules, each separate unit of accounting must have a selling price, which can be based on management’s estimate when there is no other means to determine the fair value of that undelivered item, and the arrangement consideration is allocated based on the elements’ relative  

76  

Table of Contents 

 selling price. This accounting guidance is effective no later than fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010 but may be early adopted as of the first quarter of an entity’s fiscal year. Entities may elect to adopt this accounting guidance either through prospective application to all revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified after the date of adoption or through a retrospective application to all revenue arrangements for all periods presented in the financial statements. We are currently evaluating the impact of this revised accounting guidance, which we can adopt as early as the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  

In September 2009, the FASB ratified ASU No. 2009-14, Applicability of SOP 97-2 to Certain Arrangements that Include Software Elements (formerly EITF Issue No. 09-3, Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements), which amends the existing accounting guidance for how entities account for arrangements that include both hardware and software, which typically resulted in the sale of hardware being accounted for under the software revenue recognition rules. This accounting guidance changes revenue recognition for tangible products containing software elements and non-software elements. The tangible element of the product is always outside of the scope of the software revenue recognition rules, and the software elements of tangible products when the software element and non-software elements function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality are outside of the scope of the software rules. As a result, both the hardware and qualifying related software elements are excluded from the scope of the software revenue guidance and accounted for under the revised multiple-element revenue recognition guidance. This accounting guidance is effective for all fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010 with early adoption permitted. Entities must adopt ASU 2009-14 and ASU 2009-13 in the same manner and at the same time. We are currently evaluating the impact of this revised accounting guidance, which we can adopt as early as the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  

In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Positions (“FSP”) FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2, Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment (FSP 115-2/124-2) (codified within ASC 320, Investments—Debt and Equity Securities). FSP 115-2/124-2 amends the requirements for the recognition and measurement of other-than-temporary impairments for debt securities by modifying the pre-existing “intent and ability” indicator. Under this FSP, an other-than-temporary impairment is triggered when there is an intent to sell the security, it is more likely than not that the security will be required to be sold before recovery, or the security is not expected to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. Additionally, this FSP changes the presentation of an other-than-temporary impairment in the income statement for those impairments involving credit losses. The credit loss component will be recognized in earnings and the remainder of the impairment will be recorded in other comprehensive income. FSP 115-2/124-2 was effective for us beginning with the third quarter of fiscal 2009. The adoption of this FSP did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued ASC 805, Business Combinations (formerly SFAS No. 141 (Revised 2007), Business Combinations (“SFAS 141(R)”). This Statement retains the fundamental requirements in SFAS 141 that the acquisition method of accounting (which SFAS 141 called the purchase method) be used for all business combinations and for an acquirer to be identified for each business combination. ASC 805 requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date, measured at their fair values as of that date, with limited exceptions specified in the Statement. ASC 805 replaces SFAS 141’s cost-allocation process, which required the cost of an acquisition to be allocated to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The Statement retains the guidance in SFAS 141 for identifying and recognizing intangible assets separately from goodwill. ASC 805 will now require acquisition costs to be expensed as incurred, and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally to affect income tax expense. ASC 805 applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which is our 2010 fiscal year. Early adoption is prohibited. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASC 805 will have on our consolidated financial statements.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—An amendment of ARB No. 51 (“SFAS 160”) (codified within ASC 810, Consolidation). SFAS 160 amends Accounting Research Bulletin (“ARB”) No. 51 to establish accounting and reporting standards for the  

77  

Table of Contents 

 noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. The amount of net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest will be included in consolidated net income on the face of the income statement. SFAS 160 clarifies that changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation are equity transactions if the parent retains its controlling financial interest. In addition, this Statement requires that a parent recognize a gain or loss in net income when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which is our 2010 fiscal year. Early adoption is prohibited. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have an impact on our financial position or results of operations.  

In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB FSP No. 142-3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (codified within ASC 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other), which amends the factors that must be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life over which to amortize the cost of a recognized intangible asset under ASC 350. The objective of this FSP is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under ASC 350 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under ASC 805. The FSP is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, which will be the beginning of fiscal 2010 for us. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this FSP will have on our consolidated financial statements. Early adoption is prohibited.  

In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (codified within ASC 470, Debt). This FSP applies to convertible debt instruments that, by their stated terms, may be settled in cash (or other assets) upon conversion, including partial cash settlement, unless the embedded conversion option is required to be separately accounted for as a derivative under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (formerly SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities). The liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments within the scope of this FSP must be separately accounted for in a manner that will reflect the entity’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The excess of the principal amount of the debt over the amount ultimately allocated to the liability component is required to be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method. This FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. As a result, we will adopt this standard at the beginning of fiscal 2010. This FSP must be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. The retrospective adoption of this FSP will increase our historical reported interest expense from December 10, 2007 (issuance date of the Convertible Notes—See Note 5) forward.  

The adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will have no impact on our actual past or future cash flows. However, upon adoption in fiscal 2010, we will restate prior periods by reclassifying approximately $470,000 of our Convertible Notes to additional paid-in capital, resulting in a debt discount. It is estimated that our non-cash interest expense will increase by approximately $65.5 million and $48.1 for the years ended September 26, 2009 and September 27, 2008, respectively, resulting in a restated diluted net loss per share of approximately $(8.64) and $(1.69) for the years ended September 26, 2009 and September 27, 2008, respectively. We expect to record approximately an additional $71.1 million of non-cash interest expense in fiscal 2010.  

In June 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on EITF Issue No. 07-5, Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is Indexed to an Entity’s Own Stock (“EITF 07-5”) (codified within ASC 815). This accounting guidance clarifies the determination of whether an instrument (or an embedded feature) is indexed to an entity’s own stock, which would qualify as a scope exception under ASC 815, and it is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption for an existing instrument is not permitted. We have concluded that upon the adoption of this standard, the embedded derivative  

78  

Table of Contents 

 option in our Convertible Notes (See Note 5) will continue to be considered indexed to our own stock. As a result, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (codified within ASC 105, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) , which establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification as the single source of authoritative U.S. GAAP. The Codification will supersede all existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards. As a result, upon adoption, all references to accounting literature in our SEC filings will conform to the appropriate reference within the Codification. The adoption of this standard did not have any impact on our financial position or results of operations.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.