Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

Interest Rate Risks  

Our financial results are affected by changes in the U.S. and foreign interest rates. As part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. We continually monitor our mix of floating- and fixed-rate exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary, sometimes by entering into interest rate exchange agreements, based on our evaluation of internal and external factors. The Manufacturing group did not enter into any interest rate exchange agreements in 2009, and the difference between the rates received and the rates paid on interest exchange agreements did not have a material impact on interest expense in 2008 or 2007.  

Our Finance group limits its risk to changes in interest rates with its strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. This strategy includes the use of interest rate exchange agreements. At January 2, 2010, floating-rate liabilities in excess of floating-rate assets were $0.6 billion, after considering interest rate exchange agreements and the treatment of $1.4 billion of floating-rate loans with index-rate floors as fixed-rate loans. These loans have index rates that are, on average, 219 basis points above the applicable index rate (predominately the Prime rate). The Finance group has benefited from interest rate floor agreements in the recent low rate environment; however, in a rising rate environment, this benefit will dissipate until the Prime rate exceeds the floor rates embedded in these agreements. The net effect of interest rate exchange agreements designated as hedges of debt decreased interest expense for our Finance group by $56 million in 2009 and by $25 million in 2008 and increased interest expense by $25 million in 2007.  

Foreign Exchange Risks  

Our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the foreign markets in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. The impact of foreign exchange rate changes for 2009 and 2008 from the prior year for each period is provided below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

For our manufacturing operations, we manage exposures to foreign currency assets and earnings primarily by funding certain foreign currency-denominated assets with liabilities in the same currency so that certain exposures are naturally offset. We primarily use borrowings denominated in euro and British pound sterling for these purposes. In managing our foreign currency transaction exposures, we also enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. These contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency options was approximately $1.0 billion at the end of 2009.  

Quantitative Risk Measures  

In the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. To quantify the market risk inherent in our financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis. The financial instruments that are subject to market risk (interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and equity price risk) include finance receivables (excluding lease receivables), debt (excluding lease obligations), interest rate exchange agreements, foreign currency exchange contracts and marketable security price forward contracts for our common stock. We historically have utilized forward contracts for our common stock to manage the expense related to our stock-based compensation awards. On January 21, 2010, we settled our forward contract and have elected not to enter into a new contract in 2010.  

Presented below is a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of financial instruments outstanding at year-end. We estimate the fair value of the financial instruments using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers. This sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a hypothetical change in the fair value of the financial instruments assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates, a 10% strengthening in exchange rates against the U.S. dollar and a 10% decrease in the quoted market price of our common stock.  

39   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   The value represents an asset or (liability).    

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data