PART I   

Item 1. Business  

Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative products and services around the world. We have approximately 32,000 employees worldwide. Textron Inc. was founded in 1923 and reincorporated in Delaware on July 31, 1967. Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Textron Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Textron Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

We conduct our business through five operating segments: Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial, which represent our manufacturing businesses, and Finance, which represents our finance business. A description of the business of each of our segments is set forth below. Our business segments include operations that are unincorporated divisions of Textron Inc. and others that are separately incorporated subsidiaries. Financial information by business segment and geographic area appears in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 86 and 87 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 17 through 38 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated.  

Cessna Segment  

Cessna is the world’s leading general aviation company based on unit sales with five major lines of business: Citation business jets, Caravan single-engine utility turboprops, Cessna single-engine piston aircraft, aftermarket services and lift solutions by CitationAir. Revenues in the Cessna segment accounted for approximately 32%, 40% and 40% of our total revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

The family of business jets currently produced by Cessna includes the Mustang, Citation CJ1+, Citation CJ2+, Citation CJ3, Citation CJ4, Citation Encore+, Citation XLS+, Citation Sovereign and Citation X. First customer deliveries of the Citation CJ4 are scheduled to commence in 2010.  

The Cessna Caravan is the world’s best-selling utility turboprop. Caravans are offered in four models: the Grand Caravan, the Super Cargomaster, the Caravan 675 and the Caravan Amphibian. Caravans are used in the U.S. primarily for overnight express package shipments and for personal transportation. International uses of Caravans include humanitarian flights, tourism and freight transport.  

Cessna offers nine models in its single engine piston product line, which include the four-place Skyhawk, Skyhawk SP, Skylane, Turbo Skylane, 350 Corvalis and 400 Corvalis TT, the six-place Stationair and Turbo Stationair and the two-place SkyCatcher.  

The Citation family of aircraft currently is supported by nine Citation Service Centers owned or operated by Cessna, along with authorized independent service stations and centers located in more than 22 countries throughout the world. Cessna-owned Service Centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Cessna also provides around-the-clock parts support for Citation aircraft. Cessna Caravan and single engine piston customers receive product support through independently owned service stations and around-the-clock parts support through Cessna.  

Cessna markets its products worldwide through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives, depending upon the product line. Cessna has several competitors in various market segments and increasingly faces competition internationally. Cessna’s aircraft compete with other aircraft that vary in size, speed, range, capacity and handling characteristics on the basis of price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation.  

Cessna’s private jet business called CitationAir (formerly, CitationShares) offers a spectrum of private aviation solutions, including Jet Cards, Jet Shares, Jet Management and Corporate Solutions. The CitationAir fleet operates throughout the contiguous U.S. and in Canada, Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and Bermuda.  

Bell Segment  

Bell Helicopter is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and services in the world. Bell manufactures for both military and commercial applications. Revenues for Bell accounted for approximately 27%, 20% and 21% of our total revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

1   
Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and support to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the U.S. Bell is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters to the U.S. Government and, in association with The Boeing Company, the only supplier of military tiltrotor aircraft. Bell’s major U.S. Government programs are the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters.  

Bell is teamed with The Boeing Company to develop, produce and support the V-22 Osprey tiltrotor aircraft for the U.S. Department of Defense. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. The U.S. Government has issued contracts for 286 production V-22 aircraft through production Lot 16, of which 116 have been delivered as of the end of 2009. The U.S. Government’s program of record for the V-22 calls for a total of 458 production units.  

The U.S. Marine Corps H-1 helicopter program includes a utility model and an advanced attack model, the UH-1Y and the AH-1Z, respectively, both of which were designed to have 84% parts commonality between them. Through production Lot 6, the U.S. Government has contracted for the production of 52 UH-1Y aircraft and 17 AH-1Z aircraft. We have delivered a combined total of 31 of these aircraft as of the end of 2009. In August 2008, the UH-1Y was approved for full-rate production, and the AH-1Z was extended for limited production, pending a Phase III Operational Evaluation in 2010. The U.S. Government’s program of record for the H-1 program calls for a total of 349 production units, 123 of which are utility models and 226 of which are attack models.  

Bell also is a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters and support to corporate, offshore petroleum exploration and development, utility, charter, police, fire, rescue and emergency medical helicopter operators. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types, including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The commercial helicopters currently offered by Bell include the 206, 407, 412 and 429.  

Bell’s Customer Support and Service division provides post-sale service and support for its installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters through a network of five Bell-owned service centers, more than 125 independent service centers and six supply centers that are located worldwide. Collectively, these service centers offer a complete range of logistics support, including parts, support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repair and overhaul, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, aircraft customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field service and product support engineering.  

Bell competes against a number of competitors based in the U.S. and other countries for its helicopter business, and its parts and support business competes against numerous competitors around the world. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support, contract performance and reputation.  

Textron Systems Segment  

Textron Systems is a primary supplier to the defense, aerospace and general aviation markets, providing approximately 18%, 13% and 9% of Textron’s revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. This segment’s principal focus is to address the U.S. Department of Defense’s current and emerging needs for force protection; situational awareness, including Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance (ISR); precision weapons; and related services and support. While this segment sells most of its products to U.S. customers, it also increasingly sells products to customers outside the U.S. through foreign military sales sponsored by the U.S. government and directly through commercial sales channels. Textron Systems competes on the basis of technology, contract performance, price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation. The Textron Systems segment is comprised of five operating units: AAI, Textron Marine & Land Systems (TMLS), Textron Defense Systems, Lycoming and Overwatch.  

AAI is the prime system integrator for the U.S. Army’s premier tactical Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS), the Shadow®, which includes the One System® Ground Control Station — the U.S. Army’s standard for interoperability of manned and unmanned airborne assets. AAI also provides training and simulation systems, automated aircraft test and maintenance equipment, armament systems, countersniper detection systems, and logistical, engineering and supply chain services.  

TMLS is a world leader in the design, production and support of advanced marine craft, armored combat vehicles, turrets and related subsystems. The business currently produces the Armored Security Vehicle and variants for the U.S. Army and international allies. In the marine market, TMLS has designed and produced the U.S. Navy’s Landing Craft, Air Cushion and the U.S. Coast Guard’s Motor Life Boat (MLB) and now is delivering MLBs to the Mexican Navy.  

2   
Textron Defense Systems is the U.S. Air Force’s prime contractor for the Sensor Fuzed Weapon, the U.S. Army’s lead provider for networked munitions systems, and a tier-one supplier of unattended ground sensors for the U.S. Army Brigade Combat Team Modernization Program. Textron Defense Systems manufactures state-of-the-art smart weapons; airborne and ground-based sensors and surveillance systems; and protection systems for the defense, aerospace and homeland security communities.  

Lycoming Engines continues to power more than half of the world’s general aviation fleet — both rotary-wing and fixed-wing — by specializing in the engineering, manufacture, service and support of piston aircraft engines. Lycoming also is designing, testing and delivering new cutting-edge engines, such as light sport aircraft and integrated electronic engines, to meet customers’ future needs.  

Overwatch is a widely recognized market leader in multi-source intelligence and geospatial analysis solutions among U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Army and Intelligence Community analysts. Overwatch provides solutions for a full range of operational mission areas, including ISR, precision targeting and strike, and tactical direct action.  

Industrial Segment  

The Industrial segment includes our Kautex, Greenlee, E-Z-GO and Jacobsen businesses.  

Kautex, headquartered in Bonn, Germany, is a leading developer and manufacturer of blow-molded fuel systems for cars, light trucks, all-terrain vehicles and windshield and headlamp washer systems, as well as selective catalytic reduction systems used to reduce emissions from diesel engines. Kautex serves the automobile market worldwide, with operating facilities near its major customers around the world. In addition to fuel systems and washer systems, in North America, Kautex produces engine camshafts for the automobile market. From facilities in Germany and Poland, Kautex develops and produces bottles and plastic containers for food, household, laboratory and industrial uses.  

Revenues of Kautex accounted for approximately 12%, 13% and 14% of our total revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Kautex’s automotive product lines have a limited number of competitors worldwide, some of which are affiliated with the original equipment manufacturers that comprise Kautex’s targeted customer base. Competition typically is based on a number of factors, including price, product quality and reliability, prior experience and available manufacturing capacity.  

Greenlee designs and manufactures powered equipment, electrical test and measurement instruments, hand and hydraulic powered tools, and electrical and fiber optic assemblies under the Greenlee, Fairmont, Klauke, Paladin Tools, Progressive and Tempo brand names. The products principally are used in the electrical construction and maintenance, telecommunications, data communications, wiring and plumbing industries. Greenlee distributes its products through a global network of sales representatives and distributors and sells its products directly to home improvement retailers and original equipment manufacturers. Through a joint venture, Greenlee also sells hand and powered tools for the plumbing and mechanical industries in North America. The Greenlee businesses face competition from numerous manufacturers based primarily on price, product quality and reliability.  

E-Z-GO designs, manufactures and sells golf cars and off-road utility vehicles powered by electric and internal combustion engines under the E-Z-GO name, as well as multipurpose utility vehicles under the E-Z-GO and Cushman brand names. E-Z-GO’s diversified customer base consists primarily of golf courses, resort communities and municipalities, consumers, and commercial and industrial users such as airports, college campuses and factories. Sales are made factory direct and through distributors and dealers worldwide. E-Z-GO has two major competitors for golf cars and several other competitors for off-road and multipurpose utility vehicles. Competition is based primarily on product quality and reliability, product support, reputation and price.  

Jacobsen designs and manufactures professional turf-maintenance equipment as well as specialized turf-care vehicles. Brand names include Ransomes, Jacobsen and Cushman. Jacobsen’s customers include golf courses, resort communities, sporting venues and municipalities. Products are sold through a network of distributors and dealers. Jacobsen has two major competitors for professional turf-maintenance equipment and several other competitors for specialized turf-care products. Competition is based primarily on product features, product quality, price and product support.  

Finance Segment  

Our Finance segment, which is also the Finance group, consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC), its subsidiaries and the securitization trusts consolidated into it, along with two other finance subsidiaries owned by Textron Inc. Our Finance segment is a diversified commercial finance business.  

3   
In the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced a plan to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business of our Finance segment, while retaining the captive portion of the business that supports customer purchases of products that we manufacture. We made the decision to exit this business in order to address our long-term liquidity position in light of the disruption and instability in the capital markets. The non-captive business includes the following product lines: asset-based lending, distribution finance, golf mortgage, hotel, structured capital and timeshare. The exit plan is being effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. During 2009, we reduced our owned and managed finance receivable portfolio by approximately $3.8 billion and expect, depending on market conditions, to substantially complete liquidation of the remaining non-captive portfolio over the next two to three years. This reduction included approximately $450 million in finance receivables from our captive finance business.  

Our Finance segment continues to originate new customer relationships and finance receivables in the captive finance division, which provides financing for new Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters and new E-Z-GO and Jacobsen golf and turf-care equipment. Financing continues to be provided to purchasers of used Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters on a limited basis. Our Finance segment’s services are offered primarily in North America; however, purchases of certain Textron products, principally Bell helicopters and Cessna aircraft, are financed worldwide. Most financing for Cessna aircraft sold to international buyers now is provided by using funding from the Export-Import Bank of the United States through a credit facility provided to a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of Textron and guaranteed by TFC.  

In 2009, 2008 and 2007, our Finance group paid our Manufacturing group $0.6 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties that were financed by the Finance group. Our Cessna and Industrial segments also received proceeds in those years of $13 million, $18 million and $27 million, respectively, from the sale of equipment from their manufacturing operations to our Finance group for use under operating lease agreements.  

The commercial finance business has traditionally been extremely competitive. Our Finance segment is subject to competition from various types of financing institutions, including banks, leasing companies, commercial finance companies and finance operations of equipment vendors. Competition within the commercial finance industry primarily is focused on price, term, structure and service.  

Our Finance segment’s largest business risks are continued access to financing through the capital markets and the collectability of its finance receivable portfolio. See “Finance Portfolio Quality” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 26 and 27 for a discussion of the credit quality of this portfolio.  

Backlog  

Our backlog at the end of 2009 and 2008 is summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The decrease in backlog at Cessna reflects the cancellation of numerous business jet orders during the year and includes a $2.1 billion impact from our decision to cancel the development of the Citation Columbus aircraft and a $1.3 billion impact due to cancellations by one customer. The economic recession has significantly impacted many of our customers, resulting in a significant number of Cessna’s customers requesting deferral of their scheduled delivery date, transition to a smaller or less expensive model, or, in many cases, cancellation of their order. We continue to identify customers interested in accelerating their aircraft delivery date to replace deferrals or cancellations and expect ongoing volatility in the timing of fulfillment of our Cessna backlog until economic conditions begin to recover.  

4   
Orders from Cessna customers, which cover a wide spectrum of industries worldwide, are included in backlog when the customer enters into a definitive purchase agreement and the initial customer deposit is received. We work with our customers to provide estimated delivery dates, which may be adjusted based on the customers’ needs or our production schedule, but do not establish definitive delivery dates until approximately six months before expected delivery. There is considerable uncertainty as to when or whether backlog will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability; these factors also may be impacted by the economy and public perceptions of private corporate jet usage. While backlog is an indicator of future revenues, we cannot reasonably estimate the year each order in backlog ultimately will result in revenues and cash flows.  

Orders remain in backlog until the aircraft is delivered or upon cancellation by the customer. Upon cancellation, deposits are used to defray costs, including remarketing fees, cost to reconfigure the aircraft and other costs incurred as a result of the cancellation. Remaining deposits, if any, may be retained or refunded at our discretion.  

Approximately 64% of our total backlog at January 2, 2010 represents orders that are not expected to be filled in 2010, and approximately 10% is attributable to the Citation CJ4 aircraft, which we expect will first be delivered in 2010.  

The U.S. Government is obligated only up to the amount of funding formally appropriated for a contract. The difference between the award value of the contract and the amount formally appropriated (funded) represents unfunded backlog, which generally includes cost plus type contracts. At January 2, 2010, approximately 1% of our backlog with the U.S. Government was unfunded.  

U.S. Government Contracts  

In 2009, approximately 31% of our consolidated revenues were generated by or resulted from contracts with the U.S. Government. This business is subject to competition, changes in procurement policies and regulations, the continuing availability of funding, which is dependent upon congressional appropriations, national and international priorities for defense spending, world events, and the size and timing of programs in which we may participate.  

Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including, if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government will not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and will be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; and (c) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source.  

Research and Development  

Information regarding our research and development expenditures is contained in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 84 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Patents and Trademarks  

We own, or are licensed under, numerous patents throughout the world relating to products, services and methods of manufacturing. Patents developed while under contract with the U.S. Government may be subject to use by the U.S. Government. We also own or license active trademark registrations and pending trademark applications in the U.S. and in various foreign countries or regions, as well as trade names and service marks. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole. Some of these trademarks, trade names and service marks are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, including: AAI; AH-1Z; BA609; Bell/Agusta Aerospace Company, LLC; Bell Helicopter; Bravo; Cadillac Gage; Caravan; Caravan 675; Caravan Amphibian; Cessna; Cessna 350; Cessna 400; Citation; CitationAir; CitationAir Jetcard; Citation Encore+; Citation Sovereign; Citation X; Citation XLS+; CJ1; CJ1+; CJ2; CJ2+; CJ3; CJ4; Eclipse; Excel; E-Z-GO; Fly Smart; Fly Bell; Grand Caravan; Greenlee; H-1; Huey II; Kautex; Kiowa Warrior; Klauke; Lycoming; McCauley; Mustang; NGFS; Next Generation Fuel System; Overwatch Textron Systems; Paladin; PDCue; Power Advantage; Progressive; ProParts; Quick Draw Loan; Rothenberger LLC; RXV; Shadow; SkyBOOKS; SkyCatcher; Skyhawk; Skyhawk SP; Skylane; SkyPLUS; Sovereign; ST 4X4; Stationair; Super Cargomaster; SuperCobra; SYMTX; TDCue; Tempo; Textron; Textron Business Services; Textron Business Systems; Textron Defense Systems; Textron Financial Corporation; Textron Global Technology Center; Textron Marine & Land Systems; Textron Six Sigma; Textron Systems; Turbo Skylane; Turbo Stationair; UAV SYSTEMS SPECIALIST; UH-1Y;  

5   
US Helicopter; V-22 Osprey; XLS; and 429. These marks and their related trademark designs and logotypes (and variations of the foregoing) are trademarks, trade names or service marks of Textron Inc., its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures.  

Environmental Considerations  

Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment. Compliance with these laws and expenditures for environmental control facilities has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Additional information regarding environmental matters is contained in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 83 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Employees  

At January 2, 2010, we had approximately 32,000 employees.  

Available Information  

We make available free of charge on our Internet web site (www.textron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Forward-Looking Information  

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are forward-looking statements, including those that discuss strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the statements, such as the Risk Factors contained herein and including the following: (a) changes in worldwide economic and political conditions that impact demand for our products, interest rates and foreign exchange rates; (b) the interruption of production at our facilities or our customers or suppliers; (c) performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and business partners; (d) our ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the U.S. Government; (e) the U.S. Government’s ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us for the U.S. Government’s convenience or for our failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, and, under certain circumstances, to suspend or debar us as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards; (f) changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget, including those related to Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom and the Overseas Contingency Operations; (g) changes in national or international funding priorities, U.S. and foreign military budget constraints and determinations, and government policies on the export and import of military and commercial products; (h) legislative or regulatory actions impacting our operations or demand for our products; (i) the ability to control costs and successful implementation of various cost-reduction programs; (j) the timing of new product launches and certifications of new aircraft products; (k) the occurrence of slowdowns or downturns in customer markets in which our products are sold or supplied or in which our Finance segment holds receivables; (l) changes in aircraft delivery schedules or cancellation or deferrals of orders; (m) the impact of changes in tax legislation; (n) the extent to which we are able to pass raw material price increases through to customers or offset such price increases by reducing other costs; (o) our ability to offset, through cost reductions, pricing pressure brought by original equipment manufacturer customers; (p) our ability to realize full value of receivables; (q) the availability and cost of insurance; (r) increases in pension expenses and other postretirement employee costs; (s) our Finance segment’s ability to maintain portfolio credit quality; (t) TFC’s ability to maintain certain minimum levels of financial performance required under its committed bank lines of credit and under Textron’s support agreement with TFC; (u) our Finance segment’s access to financing, including securitizations, at competitive rates; (v) our ability to successfully exit from TFC’s commercial finance business other than the captive finance business including effecting an orderly liquidation or sale of certain TFC portfolios and businesses; (w) uncertainty in estimating market value of TFC’s receivables held for sale and reserves for TFC’s receivables to be retained; (x) uncertainty in estimating contingent liabilities and unrecognized tax benefits and establishing reserves to address such items; (y) risks and uncertainties related to acquisitions and dispositions, including difficulties or unanticipated expenses in connection with the consummation of acquisitions or dispositions, the disruption of current plans and operations, or the failure to achieve anticipated synergies and opportunities; (z) the efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products; (aa) the launching of significant new products or programs which could result in unanticipated expenses; (bb) bankruptcy or other financial problems at major suppliers or customers that could cause disruptions in our supply chain or difficulty in collecting amounts owed by such customers; (cc) difficult conditions in the financial markets which may adversely impact our customers’ ability to fund or finance purchases of our products; and (dd) continued volatility in the economy resulting in a prolonged downturn in the markets in which we do business.  

6   
Item 1A. Risk Factors